
                               1 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             January 6, 2014 Monday

Palo Alto Networks Acquires Silicon Valley Start-Up Morta Security

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 480 words



HIGHLIGHT: Palo Alto Networks has acquired Morta Security, a Silicon Valley
start-up run by former employees of the National Security Agency and United
States Air Force. It&#8217;s the second major acquisition in the security market
in recent weeks.


Palo Alto Networks has acquired Morta Security, a 2-year-old Silicon Valley
security start-up run by former employees of the National Security Agency and
the United States Air Force.

Financial terms of the transaction were not disclosed, though the deal marks the
first acquisition of a company by Palo Alto Networks, a security company that
went public in 2012 and has seen its shares jump more than 20 percent over the
past year.

The union is the second big acquisition of a security start-up in recent weeks.
On Dec. 30, FireEye, a Palo Alto Networks competitor that uses software for
cyberattack detection, spent over $1 billion to acquire Mandiant, a company that
sends in teams to companies to help them recover from a hack and defend against
future attacks.

The acquisitions point to a greater recognition within the tech security market
that there is no such thing as a silver bullet. Chief security officers say the
old antivirus products no longer suffice and organizations now require a broad
range of security products and services to confront increasingly sophisticated
attacks.

The research company Risk Based Security called 2012 a record year for security
breaches, with the number of compromises more than doubling from 2011. Analysts
expect that 2013 will be  another banner year once recent breaches at Target and
Snapchat have been tallied.

Morta Security tackles the most advanced security threats. Those threats, known
within the security industry as "Advanced Persistent Threats," can refer to
nation-state sponsored cyber attacks against companies or government agencies,
or persistent attempts by criminals to gain access to a high value target, like
Target's cash registers.

What they have in common is that traditional antivirus products often fail to
detect them.

Morta Security's exclusive focus on those threats attracted the attention of
venture capitalists, notably Greylock Partners, Norwest Venture Partners and
Andreessen Horowitz, which will all profit from Morta's sale to Palo Alto
Networks, though neither company will say how much.

"In joining forces, we think we can reach a broader range of customers that we
could have on our own," Raj Shah, the company's co-founder and chief executive,
said in an interview Monday morning. Mr. Shah will continue to work at Palo Alto
Networks as a director of marketing focused on advanced threats.

"We believe the antivirus market is hopelessly behind in being able to address
the most acute problems," said Nir Zuk, the founder of Palo Alto Networks. "That
is not where the action is and that is not where the majority of the money is
going to be."


     ·    Google Buys Bump, Maker of Apps for Sharing Photos and Files
     ·    Daily Report: Deepening Ties Between N.S.A. and Silicon Valley
     ·    Homegrown Efforts to Recruit Women in Silicon Valley
     ·    Apple Says It Is 'Unaware' of N.S.A. iPhone Hack Program
     ·    Google Bus Vandalized During Protest


LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 7, 2014 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Army of One, Enhanced by a Chip

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 656 words


Gabriel Vaughn, the commando turned human computer at the center of CBS's
melodramatic new action series ''Intelligence,'' has multiple operating modes.
The microchip in his brain makes him a walking Google as well as a one-man
surveillance state, able to distract terrorists by reciting their emails to
them. He's also his own wireless hot spot -- in Tuesday's pilot, he works the
digital lock of a Pakistani interrogation cell from across the room. Where was
this guy when it was taking 10 years to find Osama bin Laden?

Of course, since he's played by Josh Holloway, who rose to fame as the surly
hunk Sawyer on ''Lost,'' Vaughn has another set of attributes that may be more
crucial to the show's success: chin, jaw, nose, eyes, abs, voice. When several
truckfuls of Pakistani soldiers chase Vaughn through the woods, assault weapons
chattering, you're not sure whether he's dodging the bullets or they're just
bouncing off his adamantine cheekbones.

Vaughn and Sawyer are the same irresistible bad boy, though Vaughn is
considerably more skilled -- an entire government counterterrorist agency, the
Cyber Command, has been built around him -- and Mr. Holloway coasts through
''Intelligence'' giving the same twinkly-sarcastic performance he perfected in
''Lost.'' His charm isn't inexhaustible, but there's more than enough of it to
meet the character's limited demands.

There isn't a lot else to like, though, about ''Intelligence,'' whose title
makes a promise the show doesn't keep. It feels cobbled together, from the
premise of ''Chuck,'' ''Jake 2.0'' and other shows to scenes and situations that
recall better productions like ''Person of Interest,'' ''Homeland'' and
''Raiders of the Lost Ark.''

That synthetic quality carries over into the dialogue, much of which asks to be
barked or hissed: ''There are only two ways this ends.'' ''It's not your call to
make.'' ''Refuse and I will dig the chip out of his dead skull myself.'' ''It's
personal!'' The cast mostly gives in, furrowing brows, clenching jaws, bugging
eyes and nodding grimly.

The ubiquitous character actor John Billingsley, as the scientist who implanted
Vaughn's chip, and Meghan Ory (Red Riding Hood in ''Once Upon a Time''), as
Riley, the Secret Service agent assigned to protect Vaughn, are particularly
prone to the fake hammy intensity the script seems to call for. Marg
Helgenberger, as the head of CyberCom, and Mr. Holloway are more consistently
believable but not immune.

Based on two episodes, ''Intelligence'' looks like a quasi-military procedural,
with Vaughn and his team facing slippery Chinese agents one week and angry
Middle Eastern terrorists another week. There's some back story involving
Vaughn's wife and, in a twist reminiscent of a prominent female character in
''Lost,'' Riley's sealed juvenile court record. But the series is really about
Mr. Holloway's magnetism and his wry sense of humor. In any case, how seriously
can you take a show in which the supersecret supersoldier project, code-named
Clockwork, is housed in a complex with a big sign on the door that says
''Clockwork''?

In one bit of funny business, Vaughn translates a Chinese phrase and then admits
that he doesn't speak the language -- ''I've got an app for that,'' he says. It
makes you wonder: If you had the whole Internet in your head, would you be able
to focus on fighting terrorists when you could spend all your time on OkCupid or
Etsy instead? Maybe in a future episode, for added realism, a bomb can go off
while Vaughn is busy sexting.

Intelligence

CBS, Tuesday night at 9, Eastern and Pacific times; 8, Central time. Produced by
ABC Television Studios in association with CBS Television Studios. Michael
Seitzman, Tripp Vinson and Barry Schindel, executive producers.

WITH: Josh Holloway (Gabriel), Meghan Ory (Riley Neal), John Billingsley (Dr.
Shenandoah Cassidy), P.J. Byrne (Nelson Cassidy), Michael Rady (Chris Jameson)
and Marg Helgenberger (Lillian Strand).

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/01/07/arts/television/josh-holloway-stars-in-intelli
gence.html

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Intelligence: Josh Holloway as a  high-tech intelligence
operative in  this new series on CBS. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS
HELCERMANAS-BENGE/CBS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 15, 2014 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

N.S.A. Devises Radio Pathway Into Computers

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2175 words


WASHINGTON -- The National Security Agency has implanted software in nearly
100,000 computers around the world that allows the United States to conduct
surveillance on those machines and can also create a digital highway for
launching cyberattacks.

While most of the software is inserted by gaining access to computer networks,
the N.S.A. has increasingly made use of a secret technology that enables it to
enter and alter data in computers even if they are not connected to the
Internet, according to N.S.A. documents, computer experts and American
officials.

The technology, which the agency has used since at least 2008, relies on a
covert channel of radio waves that can be transmitted from tiny circuit boards
and USB cards inserted surreptitiously into the computers. In some cases, they
are sent to a briefcase-size relay station that intelligence agencies can set up
miles away from the target.

The radio frequency technology has helped solve one of the biggest problems
facing American intelligence agencies for years: getting into computers that
adversaries, and some American partners, have tried to make impervious to spying
or cyberattack. In most cases, the radio frequency hardware must be physically
inserted by a spy, a manufacturer or an unwitting user.

The N.S.A. calls its efforts more an act of ''active defense'' against foreign
cyberattacks than a tool to go on the offensive. But when Chinese attackers
place similar software on the computer systems of American companies or
government agencies, American officials have protested, often at the
presidential level.

Among the most frequent targets of the N.S.A. and its Pentagon partner, United
States Cyber Command, have been units of the Chinese Army, which the United
States has accused of launching regular digital probes and attacks on American
industrial and military targets, usually to steal secrets or intellectual
property. But the program, code-named Quantum, has also been successful in
inserting software into Russian military networks and systems used by the
Mexican police and drug cartels, trade institutions inside the European Union,
and sometime partners against terrorism like Saudi Arabia, India and Pakistan,
according to officials and an N.S.A. map that indicates sites of what the agency
calls ''computer network exploitation.''

''What's new here is the scale and the sophistication of the intelligence
agency's ability to get into computers and networks to which no one has ever had
access before,'' said James Andrew Lewis, the cybersecurity expert at the Center
for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. ''Some of these
capabilities have been around for a while, but the combination of learning how
to penetrate systems to insert software and learning how to do that using radio
frequencies has given the U.S. a window it's never had before.''

No Domestic Use Seen

There is no evidence that the N.S.A. has implanted its software or used its
radio frequency technology inside the United States. While refusing to comment
on the scope of the Quantum program, the N.S.A. said its actions were not
comparable to China's.

''N.S.A.'s activities are focused and specifically deployed against -- and only
against -- valid foreign intelligence targets in response to intelligence
requirements,'' Vanee Vines, an agency spokeswoman, said in a statement. ''We do
not use foreign intelligence capabilities to steal the trade secrets of foreign
companies on behalf of -- or give intelligence we collect to -- U.S. companies
to enhance their international competitiveness or increase their bottom line.''

Over the past two months, parts of the program have been disclosed in documents
from the trove leaked by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor. A
Dutch newspaper published the map of areas where the United States has inserted
spy software, sometimes in cooperation with local authorities, often covertly.
Der Spiegel, a German newsmagazine, published the N.S.A.'s catalog of hardware
products that can secretly transmit and receive digital signals from computers,
a program called ANT. The New York Times withheld some of those details, at the
request of American intelligence officials, when it reported, in the summer of
2012, on American cyberattacks on Iran.

President Obama is scheduled to announce on Friday what recommendations he is
accepting from an advisory panel on changing N.S.A. practices. The panel agreed
with Silicon Valley executives that some of the techniques developed by the
agency to find flaws in computer systems undermine global confidence in a range
of American-made information products like laptop computers and cloud services.

Embracing Silicon Valley's critique of the N.S.A., the panel has recommended
banning, except in extreme cases, the N.S.A. practice of exploiting flaws in
common software to aid in American surveillance and cyberattacks. It also called
for an end to government efforts to weaken publicly available encryption
systems, and said the government should never develop secret ways into computer
systems to exploit them, which sometimes include software implants.

Richard A. Clarke, an official in the Clinton and Bush administrations who
served as one of the five members of the advisory panel, explained the group's
reasoning in an email last week, saying that ''it is more important that we
defend ourselves than that we attack others.''

''Holes in encryption software would be more of a risk to us than a benefit,''
he said, adding: ''If we can find the vulnerability, so can others. It's more
important that we protect our power grid than that we get into China's.''

From the earliest days of the Internet, the N.S.A. had little trouble monitoring
traffic because a vast majority of messages and searches were moved through
servers on American soil. As the Internet expanded, so did the N.S.A.'s efforts
to understand its geography. A program named Treasure Map tried to identify
nearly every node and corner of the web, so that any computer or mobile device
that touched it could be located.

A 2008 map, part of the Snowden trove, notes 20 programs to gain access to big
fiber-optic cables -- it calls them ''covert, clandestine or cooperative large
accesses'' -- not only in the United States but also in places like Hong Kong,
Indonesia and the Middle East. The same map indicates that the United States had
already conducted ''more than 50,000 worldwide implants,'' and a more recent
budget document said that by the end of last year that figure would rise to
about 85,000. A senior official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said
the actual figure was most likely closer to 100,000.

That map suggests how the United States was able to speed ahead with implanting
malicious software on the computers around the world that it most wanted to
monitor -- or disable before they could be used to launch a cyberattack.

A Focus on Defense

In interviews, officials and experts said that a vast majority of such implants
are intended only for surveillance and serve as an early warning system for
cyberattacks directed at the United States.

''How do you ensure that Cyber Command people'' are able to look at ''those that
are attacking us?'' a senior official, who compared it to submarine warfare,
asked in an interview several months ago.

''That is what the submarines do all the time,'' said the official, speaking on
the condition of anonymity to describe policy. ''They track the adversary
submarines.'' In cyberspace, he said, the United States tries ''to silently
track the adversaries while they're trying to silently track you.''

If tracking subs was a Cold War cat-and-mouse game with the Soviets, tracking
malware is a pursuit played most aggressively with the Chinese.

The United States has targeted Unit 61398, the Shanghai-based Chinese Army unit
believed to be responsible for many of the biggest cyberattacks on the United
States, in an effort to see attacks being prepared. With Australia's help, one
N.S.A. document suggests, the United States has also focused on another specific
Chinese Army unit.

Documents obtained by Mr. Snowden indicate that the United States has set up two
data centers in China -- perhaps through front companies -- from which it can
insert malware into computers. When the Chinese place surveillance software on
American computer systems -- and they have, on systems like those at the
Pentagon and at The Times -- the United States usually regards it as a
potentially hostile act, a possible prelude to an attack. Mr. Obama laid out
America's complaints about those practices to President Xi Jinping of China in a
long session at a summit meeting in California last June.

At that session, Mr. Obama tried to differentiate between conducting
surveillance for national security -- which the United States argues is
legitimate -- and conducting it to steal intellectual property.

''The argument is not working,'' said Peter W. Singer of the Brookings
Institution, a co-author of a new book called ''Cybersecurity and Cyberwar.''
''To the Chinese, gaining economic advantage is part of national security. And
the Snowden revelations have taken a lot of the pressure off'' the Chinese.
Still, the United States has banned the sale of computer servers from a major
Chinese manufacturer, Huawei, for fear that they could contain technology to
penetrate American networks.

An Old Technology

The N.S.A.'s efforts to reach computers unconnected to a network have relied on
a century-old technology updated for modern times: radio transmissions.

In a catalog produced by the agency that was part of the Snowden documents
released in Europe, there are page after page of devices using technology that
would have brought a smile to Q, James Bond's technology supplier.

One, called Cottonmouth I, looks like a normal USB plug but has a tiny
transceiver buried in it. According to the catalog, it transmits information
swept from the computer ''through a covert channel'' that allows ''data
infiltration and exfiltration.'' Another variant of the technology involves tiny
circuit boards that can be inserted in a laptop computer -- either in the field
or when they are shipped from manufacturers -- so that the computer is
broadcasting to the N.S.A. even while the computer's user enjoys the false
confidence that being walled off from the Internet constitutes real protection.

The relay station it communicates with, called Nightstand, fits in an oversize
briefcase, and the system can attack a computer ''from as far away as eight
miles under ideal environmental conditions.'' It can also insert packets of data
in milliseconds, meaning that a false message or piece of programming can
outrace a real one to a target computer. Similar stations create a link between
the target computers and the N.S.A., even if the machines are isolated from the
Internet.

Computers are not the only targets. Dropoutjeep attacks iPhones. Other hardware
and software are designed to infect large network servers, including those made
by the Chinese.

Most of those code names and products are now at least five years old, and they
have been updated, some experts say, to make the United States less dependent on
physically getting hardware into adversaries' computer systems.

The N.S.A. refused to talk about the documents that contained these
descriptions, even after they were published in Europe.

''Continuous and selective publication of specific techniques and tools used by
N.S.A. to pursue legitimate foreign intelligence targets is detrimental to the
security of the United States and our allies,'' Ms. Vines, the N.S.A.
spokeswoman, said.

But the Iranians and others discovered some of those techniques years ago. The
hardware in the N.S.A.'s catalog was crucial in the cyberattacks on Iran's
nuclear facilities, code-named Olympic Games, that began around 2008 and
proceeded through the summer of 2010, when a technical error revealed the attack
software, later called Stuxnet. That was the first major test of the technology.

One feature of the Stuxnet attack was that the technology the United States
slipped into Iran's nuclear enrichment plant at Natanz was able to map how it
operated, then ''phone home'' the details. Later, that equipment was used to
insert malware that blew up nearly 1,000 centrifuges, and temporarily set back
Iran's program.

But the Stuxnet strike does not appear to be the last time the technology was
used in Iran. In 2012, a unit of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps moved a
rock near the country's underground Fordo nuclear enrichment plant. The rock
exploded and spewed broken circuit boards that the Iranian news media described
as ''the remains of a device capable of intercepting data from computers at the
plant.'' The origins of that device have never been determined.

On Sunday, according to the semiofficial Fars news agency, Iran's Oil Ministry
issued another warning about possible cyberattacks, describing a series of
defenses it was erecting -- and making no mention of what are suspected of being
its own attacks on Saudi Arabia's largest oil producer.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/01/15/us/nsa-effort-pries-open-computers-not-connect
ed-to-internet.html

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The headquarters of the National Security Agency at Fort Meade,
Md. ''We do not use foreign intelligence  capabilities to steal the trade
secrets of foreign companies,'' an N.S.A. official said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO
SCALZO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A10)  GRAPHICS: How the N.S.A. Uses Radio
Frequencies to Penetrate Computers: The N.S.A. and the Pentagon's Cyber Command
have implanted nearly 100,000 ''computer network exploits''  around the world,
but the hardest problem is to get inside machines isolated from any outside
communications. (A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 17, 2014 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

E-Commerce Competition Intensifies in China

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 720 words


TOKYO -- An arms race between the two most powerful Internet companies in China
has escalated again, with one of them, Tencent, announcing an investment that
pushes it further into e-commerce -- territory long controlled by its rival,
Alibaba.

Tencent said on Wednesday that it would pay about 1.5 billion Hong Kong dollars,
or $193 million, for a nearly 10 percent stake in China South City Holdings,
which operates warehouses and factory outlet malls and provides a variety of
other logistical services to retailers. Both companies' shares are listed in
Hong Kong.

Until recently, Alibaba and Tencent seemed largely content to develop their own
areas of expertise without moving too aggressively onto each other's turf.
Alibaba owns e-commerce sites like Taobao and Tmall, while Tencent operates
messaging services like QQ and WeChat.

But over the last year or so, with Alibaba positioning itself for an initial
public offering and Tencent eyeing the lucrative earnings from the boom in
online retailing in China, the gloves have come off.

''Tencent is absolutely trying to get more aggressive in the e-business space,
challenging Alibaba, as most of their services are now overlapping,'' said Bryan
Wang, an analyst at Forrester Research.

In October, Jack Ma, the chairman of Alibaba, announced that he was shutting
down his WeChat account and moving to a new Alibaba messaging service called
Laiwang. He urged his followers to do the same.

Last week, Alibaba said that it was planning to set up a mobile game platform
from which it would offer applications developed by outside programmers, sharing
the revenue with them. Tencent generates more than half of its revenue from
games. Most are free, but it relies on the vast reach of WeChat, which says it
has more than 270 million active monthly users, to fuel demand for subsequent
in-game purchases by players determined to stay ahead of their friends.

The video game market in China increased 38 percent last year, to $13.8 billion,
according to a government agency that monitors the industry. Mobile games were
the fastest-growing segment, with revenue more than tripling to $1.8 billion.

E-commerce is a much bigger business. Last year, sales in China, including
online transactions between businesses, rose to $335 billion from $221 billion
in 2012, according to an Alibaba research center.

On an unofficial holiday for single people in November that has turned into the
equivalent of Cyber Monday in the United States, Chinese online retailers run a
huge amount of promotions. Alibaba recorded $5.75 billion in transactions
processed by its online payment system on the sales day this year.

But Alibaba is not resting on its laurels. In December, the company said it was
investing about $360 million in the Haier Group, one of the biggest appliance
makers in China. The companies said they would set up a logistics joint venture
that would support Alibaba's delivery operations. Alibaba also struck a deal
last year with Sina Weibo, the operator of China's leading microblogging
platform, that is aimed at countering the popularity of WeChat and driving more
users to Alibaba's e-commerce sites.

Tencent has responded with investments of its own, including the purchase of a
stake in a search engine called Sogou. And the company has moved to build up its
own e-commerce capabilities, which include sites like 51Buy and QQ Wanggou, by
adding a payment feature to WeChat.

Tencent said the agreement with China South City would enhance its e-commerce
reach. The companies will work together to help small and midsize companies
develop their online retailing operations, they said.

''Cooperation with China South City enables us to jointly facilitate such
enterprises migrating online, utilizing China South City's physical locations
and logistics capabilities, together with Tencent's Internet user platforms and
technology capabilities,'' Martin Lau, the president of Tencent, said in a
statement.

In addition to warehouses and other logistical facilities, China South City
operates factory outlet malls featuring brands like Nike and Adidas. Tencent and
China South City said they would ''explore opportunities for cooperation with
respect to online outlet services for branded goods.''

Tencent has its headquarters in Shenzhen, where China South City also has its
operations hub.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/01/17/business/international/e-commerce-competition-
intensifies-in-china.html

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 18, 2014 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Obama's Speech on N.S.A. Phone Surveillance

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; TRANSCRIPT; Pg.

LENGTH: 5656 words


Following is the text of President Obama's speech on National Security Agency
data collection programs, as transcribed by the White House.

MR. OBAMA: At the dawn of our Republic, a small, secret surveillance committee
borne out of the ''The Sons of Liberty'' was established in Boston. And the
group's members included Paul Revere. At night, they would patrol the streets,
reporting back any signs that the British were preparing raids against America's
early Patriots.

Throughout American history, intelligence has helped secure our country and our
freedoms. In the Civil War, Union balloon reconnaissance tracked the size of
Confederate armies by counting the number of campfires. In World War II,
code-breakers gave us insights into Japanese war plans, and when Patton marched
across Europe, intercepted communications helped save the lives of his troops.
After the war, the rise of the Iron Curtain and nuclear weapons only increased
the need for sustained intelligence gathering. And so, in the early days of the
Cold War, President Truman created the National Security Agency, or NSA, to give
us insights into the Soviet bloc, and provide our leaders with information they
needed to confront aggression and avert catastrophe.

Throughout this evolution, we benefited from both our Constitution and our
traditions of limited government. U.S. intelligence agencies were anchored in a
system of checks and balances -- with oversight from elected leaders, and
protections for ordinary citizens. Meanwhile, totalitarian states like East
Germany offered a cautionary tale of what could happen when vast, unchecked
surveillance turned citizens into informers, and persecuted people for what they
said in the privacy of their own homes.

In fact, even the United States proved not to be immune to the abuse of
surveillance. And in the 1960s, government spied on civil rights leaders and
critics of the Vietnam War. And partly in response to these revelations,
additional laws were established in the 1970s to ensure that our intelligence
capabilities could not be misused against our citizens. In the long, twilight
struggle against Communism, we had been reminded that the very liberties that we
sought to preserve could not be sacrificed at the altar of national security.

If the fall of the Soviet Union left America without a competing superpower,
emerging threats from terrorist groups, and the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction placed new and in some ways more complicated demands on our
intelligence agencies. Globalization and the Internet made these threats more
acute, as technology erased borders and empowered individuals to project great
violence, as well as great good. Moreover, these new threats raised new legal
and new policy questions. For while few doubted the legitimacy of spying on
hostile states, our framework of laws was not fully adapted to prevent terrorist
attacks by individuals acting on their own, or acting in small, ideologically
driven groups on behalf of a foreign power.

The horror of September 11th brought all these issues to the fore. Across the
political spectrum, Americans recognized that we had to adapt to a world in
which a bomb could be built in a basement, and our electric grid could be shut
down by operators an ocean away. We were shaken by the signs we had missed
leading up to the attacks -- how the hijackers had made phone calls to known
extremists and traveled to suspicious places. So we demanded that our
intelligence community improve its capabilities, and that law enforcement change
practices to focus more on preventing attacks before they happen than
prosecuting terrorists after an attack.

It is hard to overstate the transformation America's intelligence community had
to go through after 9/11. Our agencies suddenly needed to do far more than the
traditional mission of monitoring hostile powers and gathering information for
policymakers. Instead, they were now asked to identify and target plotters in
some of the most remote parts of the world, and to anticipate the actions of
networks that, by their very nature, cannot be easily penetrated with spies or
informants.

And it is a testimony to the hard work and dedication of the men and women of
our intelligence community that over the past decade we've made enormous strides
in fulfilling this mission. Today, new capabilities allow intelligence agencies
to track who a terrorist is in contact with, and follow the trail of his travel
or his funding. New laws allow information to be collected and shared more
quickly and effectively between federal agencies, and state and local law
enforcement. Relationships with foreign intelligence services have expanded, and
our capacity to repel cyber-attacks have been strengthened. And taken together,
these efforts have prevented multiple attacks and saved innocent lives -- not
just here in the United States, but around the globe.

And yet, in our rush to respond to a very real and novel set of threats, the
risk of government overreach -- the possibility that we lose some of our core
liberties in pursuit of security -- also became more pronounced. We saw, in the
immediate aftermath of 9/11, our government engaged in enhanced interrogation
techniques that contradicted our values. As a Senator, I was critical of several
practices, such as warrantless wiretaps. And all too often new authorities were
instituted without adequate public debate.

Through a combination of action by the courts, increased congressional
oversight, and adjustments by the previous administration, some of the worst
excesses that emerged after 9/11 were curbed by the time I took office. But a
variety of factors have continued to complicate America's efforts to both defend
our nation and uphold our civil liberties.

First, the same technological advances that allow U.S. intelligence agencies to
pinpoint an al Qaeda cell in Yemen or an email between two terrorists in the
Sahel also mean that many routine communications around the world are within our
reach. And at a time when more and more of our lives are digital, that prospect
is disquieting for all of us.

Second, the combination of increased digital information and powerful
supercomputers offers intelligence agencies the possibility of sifting through
massive amounts of bulk data to identify patterns or pursue leads that may
thwart impending threats. It's a powerful tool. But the government collection
and storage of such bulk data also creates a potential for abuse.

Third, the legal safeguards that restrict surveillance against U.S. persons
without a warrant do not apply to foreign persons overseas. This is not unique
to America; few, if any, spy agencies around the world constrain their
activities beyond their own borders. And the whole point of intelligence is to
obtain information that is not publicly available. But America's capabilities
are unique, and the power of new technologies means that there are fewer and
fewer technical constraints on what we can do. That places a special obligation
on us to ask tough questions about what we should do.

And finally, intelligence agencies cannot function without secrecy, which makes
their work less subject to public debate. Yet there is an inevitable bias not
only within the intelligence community, but among all of us who are responsible
for national security, to collect more information about the world, not less. So
in the absence of institutional requirements for regular debate -- and oversight
that is public, as well as private or classified -- the danger of government
overreach becomes more acute. And this is particularly true when surveillance
technology and our reliance on digital information is evolving much faster than
our laws.

For all these reasons, I maintained a healthy skepticism toward our surveillance
programs after I became President. I ordered that our programs be reviewed by my
national security team and our lawyers, and in some cases I ordered changes in
how we did business. We increased oversight and auditing, including new
structures aimed at compliance. Improved rules were proposed by the government
and approved by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. And we sought to
keep Congress continually updated on these activities.

What I did not do is stop these programs wholesale -- not only because I felt
that they made us more secure, but also because nothing in that initial review,
and nothing that I have learned since, indicated that our intelligence community
has sought to violate the law or is cavalier about the civil liberties of their
fellow citizens.

To the contrary, in an extraordinarily difficult job -- one in which actions are
second-guessed, success is unreported, and failure can be catastrophic -- the
men and women of the intelligence community, including the NSA, consistently
follow protocols designed to protect the privacy of ordinary people. They're not
abusing authorities in order to listen to your private phone calls or read your
emails. When mistakes are made -- which is inevitable in any large and
complicated human enterprise -- they correct those mistakes. Laboring in
obscurity, often unable to discuss their work even with family and friends, the
men and women at the NSA know that if another 9/11 or massive cyber-attack
occurs, they will be asked, by Congress and the media, why they failed to
connect the dots. What sustains those who work at NSA and our other intelligence
agencies through all these pressures is the knowledge that their professionalism
and dedication play a central role in the defense of our nation.

Now, to say that our intelligence community follows the law, and is staffed by
patriots, is not to suggest that I or others in my administration felt
complacent about the potential impact of these programs. Those of us who hold
office in America have a responsibility to our Constitution, and while I was
confident in the integrity of those who lead our intelligence community, it was
clear to me in observing our intelligence operations on a regular basis that
changes in our technological capabilities were raising new questions about the
privacy safeguards currently in place.

Moreover, after an extended review of our use of drones in the fight against
terrorist networks, I believed a fresh examination of our surveillance programs
was a necessary next step in our effort to get off the open-ended war footing
that we've maintained since 9/11. And for these reasons, I indicated in a speech
at the National Defense University last May that we needed a more robust public
discussion about the balance between security and liberty. Of course, what I did
not know at the time is that within weeks of my speech, an avalanche of
unauthorized disclosures would spark controversies at home and abroad that have
continued to this day.

And given the fact of an open investigation, I'm not going to dwell on Mr.
Snowden's actions or his motivations; I will say that our nation's defense
depends in part on the fidelity of those entrusted with our nation's secrets. If
any individual who objects to government policy can take it into their own hands
to publicly disclose classified information, then we will not be able to keep
our people safe, or conduct foreign policy. Moreover, the sensational way in
which these disclosures have come out has often shed more heat than light, while
revealing methods to our adversaries that could impact our operations in ways
that we may not fully understand for years to come.

Regardless of how we got here, though, the task before us now is greater than
simply repairing the damage done to our operations or preventing more
disclosures from taking place in the future. Instead, we have to make some
important decisions about how to protect ourselves and sustain our leadership in
the world, while upholding the civil liberties and privacy protections that our
ideals and our Constitution require. We need to do so not only because it is
right, but because the challenges posed by threats like terrorism and
proliferation and cyber-attacks are not going away any time soon. They are going
to continue to be a major problem. And for our intelligence community to be
effective over the long haul, we must maintain the trust of the American people,
and people around the world.

This effort will not be completed overnight, and given the pace of technological
change, we shouldn't expect this to be the last time America has this debate.
But I want the American people to know that the work has begun. Over the last
six months, I created an outside Review Group on Intelligence and Communications
Technologies to make recommendations for reform. I consulted with the Privacy
and Civil Liberties Oversight Board, created by Congress. I've listened to
foreign partners, privacy advocates, and industry leaders. My administration has
spent countless hours considering how to approach intelligence in this era of
diffuse threats and technological revolution. So before outlining specific
changes that I've ordered, let me make a few broad observations that have
emerged from this process.

First, everyone who has looked at these problems, including skeptics of existing
programs, recognizes that we have real enemies and threats, and that
intelligence serves a vital role in confronting them. We cannot prevent
terrorist attacks or cyber threats without some capability to penetrate digital
communications -- whether it's to unravel a terrorist plot; to intercept malware
that targets a stock exchange; to make sure air traffic control systems are not
compromised; or to ensure that hackers do not empty your bank accounts. We are
expected to protect the American people; that requires us to have capabilities
in this field.

Moreover, we cannot unilaterally disarm our intelligence agencies. There is a
reason why BlackBerrys and iPhones are not allowed in the White House Situation
Room. We know that the intelligence services of other countries -- including
some who feign surprise over the Snowden disclosures -- are constantly probing
our government and private sector networks, and accelerating programs to listen
to our conversations, and intercept our emails, and compromise our systems. We
know that.

Meanwhile, a number of countries, including some who have loudly criticized the
NSA, privately acknowledge that America has special responsibilities as the
world's only superpower; that our intelligence capabilities are critical to
meeting these responsibilities, and that they themselves have relied on the
information we obtain to protect their own people.

Second, just as ardent civil libertarians recognize the need for robust
intelligence capabilities, those with responsibilities for our national security
readily acknowledge the potential for abuse as intelligence capabilities advance
and more and more private information is digitized. After all, the folks at NSA
and other intelligence agencies are our neighbors. They're our friends and
family. They've got electronic bank and medical records like everybody else.
They have kids on Facebook and Instagram, and they know, more than most of us,
the vulnerabilities to privacy that exist in a world where transactions are
recorded, and emails and text and messages are stored, and even our movements
can increasingly be tracked through the GPS on our phones.

Third, there was a recognition by all who participated in these reviews that the
challenges to our privacy do not come from government alone. Corporations of all
shapes and sizes track what you buy, store and analyze our data, and use it for
commercial purposes; that's how those targeted ads pop up on your computer and
your smartphone periodically. But all of us understand that the standards for
government surveillance must be higher. Given the unique power of the state, it
is not enough for leaders to say: Trust us, we won't abuse the data we collect.
For history has too many examples when that trust has been breached. Our system
of government is built on the premise that our liberty cannot depend on the good
intentions of those in power; it depends on the law to constrain those in power.

I make these observations to underscore that the basic values of most Americans
when it comes to questions of surveillance and privacy converge a lot more than
the crude characterizations that have emerged over the last several months.
Those who are troubled by our existing programs are not interested in repeating
the tragedy of 9/11, and those who defend these programs are not dismissive of
civil liberties.

The challenge is getting the details right, and that is not simple. In fact,
during the course of our review, I have often reminded myself I would not be
where I am today were it not for the courage of dissidents like Dr. King, who
were spied upon by their own government. And as President, a President who looks
at intelligence every morning, I also can't help but be reminded that America
must be vigilant in the face of threats.

Fortunately, by focusing on facts and specifics rather than speculation and
hypotheticals, this review process has given me -- and hopefully the American
people -- some clear direction for change. And today, I can announce a series of
concrete and substantial reforms that my administration intends to adopt
administratively or will seek to codify with Congress.

First, I have approved a new presidential directive for our signals intelligence
activities both at home and abroad. This guidance will strengthen executive
branch oversight of our intelligence activities. It will ensure that we take
into account our security requirements, but also our alliances; our trade and
investment relationships, including the concerns of American companies; and our
commitment to privacy and basic liberties. And we will review decisions about
intelligence priorities and sensitive targets on an annual basis so that our
actions are regularly scrutinized by my senior national security team.

Second, we will reform programs and procedures in place to provide greater
transparency to our surveillance activities, and fortify the safeguards that
protect the privacy of U.S. persons. Since we began this review, including
information being released today, we have declassified over 40 opinions and
orders of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, which provides judicial
review of some of our most sensitive intelligence activities -- including the
Section 702 program targeting foreign individuals overseas, and the Section 215
telephone metadata program.

And going forward, I'm directing the Director of National Intelligence, in
consultation with the Attorney General, to annually review for the purposes of
declassification any future opinions of the court with broad privacy
implications, and to report to me and to Congress on these efforts. To ensure
that the court hears a broader range of privacy perspectives, I am also calling
on Congress to authorize the establishment of a panel of advocates from outside
government to provide an independent voice in significant cases before the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court.

Third, we will provide additional protections for activities conducted under
Section 702, which allows the government to intercept the communications of
foreign targets overseas who have information that's important for our national
security. Specifically, I am asking the Attorney General and DNI to institute
reforms that place additional restrictions on government's ability to retain,
search, and use in criminal cases communications between Americans and foreign
citizens incidentally collected under Section 702.

Fourth, in investigating threats, the FBI also relies on what's called national
security letters, which can require companies to provide specific and limited
information to the government without disclosing the orders to the subject of
the investigation. These are cases in which it's important that the subject of
the investigation, such as a possible terrorist or spy, isn't tipped off. But we
can and should be more transparent in how government uses this authority.

I have therefore directed the Attorney General to amend how we use national
security letters so that this secrecy will not be indefinite, so that it will
terminate within a fixed time unless the government demonstrates a real need for
further secrecy. We will also enable communications providers to make public
more information than ever before about the orders that they have received to
provide data to the government.

This brings me to the program that has generated the most controversy these past
few months -- the bulk collection of telephone records under Section 215. Let me
repeat what I said when this story first broke: This program does not involve
the content of phone calls, or the names of people making calls. Instead, it
provides a record of phone numbers and the times and lengths of calls --
metadata that can be queried if and when we have a reasonable suspicion that a
particular number is linked to a terrorist organization.

Why is this necessary? The program grew out of a desire to address a gap
identified after 9/11. One of the 9/11 hijackers -- Khalid al-Mihdhar -- made a
phone call from San Diego to a known al Qaeda safe-house in Yemen. NSA saw that
call, but it could not see that the call was coming from an individual already
in the United States. The telephone metadata program under Section 215 was
designed to map the communications of terrorists so we can see who they may be
in contact with as quickly as possible. And this capability could also prove
valuable in a crisis. For example, if a bomb goes off in one of our cities and
law enforcement is racing to determine whether a network is poised to conduct
additional attacks, time is of the essence. Being able to quickly review phone
connections to assess whether a network exists is critical to that effort.

In sum, the program does not involve the NSA examining the phone records of
ordinary Americans. Rather, it consolidates these records into a database that
the government can query if it has a specific lead -- a consolidation of phone
records that the companies already retained for business purposes. The review
group turned up no indication that this database has been intentionally abused.
And I believe it is important that the capability that this program is designed
to meet is preserved.

Having said that, I believe critics are right to point out that without proper
safeguards, this type of program could be used to yield more information about
our private lives, and open the door to more intrusive bulk collection programs
in the future. They're also right to point out that although the telephone bulk
collection program was subject to oversight by the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court and has been reauthorized repeatedly by Congress, it has
never been subject to vigorous public debate.

For all these reasons, I believe we need a new approach. I am therefore ordering
a transition that will end the Section 215 bulk metadata program as it currently
exists, and establish a mechanism that preserves the capabilities we need
without the government holding this bulk metadata.

This will not be simple. The review group recommended that our current approach
be replaced by one in which the providers or a third party retain the bulk
records, with government accessing information as needed. Both of these options
pose difficult problems. Relying solely on the records of multiple providers,
for example, could require companies to alter their procedures in ways that
raise new privacy concerns. On the other hand, any third party maintaining a
single, consolidated database would be carrying out what is essentially a
government function but with more expense, more legal ambiguity, potentially
less accountability -- all of which would have a doubtful impact on increasing
public confidence that their privacy is being protected.

During the review process, some suggested that we may also be able to preserve
the capabilities we need through a combination of existing authorities, better
information sharing, and recent technological advances. But more work needs to
be done to determine exactly how this system might work.

Because of the challenges involved, I've ordered that the transition away from
the existing program will proceed in two steps. Effective immediately, we will
only pursue phone calls that are two steps removed from a number associated with
a terrorist organization instead of the current three. And I have directed the
Attorney General to work with the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court so
that during this transition period, the database can be queried only after a
judicial finding or in the case of a true emergency.

Next, step two, I have instructed the intelligence community and the Attorney
General to use this transition period to develop options for a new approach that
can match the capabilities and fill the gaps that the Section 215 program was
designed to address without the government holding this metadata itself. They
will report back to me with options for alternative approaches before the
program comes up for reauthorization on March 28th. And during this period, I
will consult with the relevant committees in Congress to seek their views, and
then seek congressional authorization for the new program as needed.

Now, the reforms I'm proposing today should give the American people greater
confidence that their rights are being protected, even as our intelligence and
law enforcement agencies maintain the tools they need to keep us safe. And I
recognize that there are additional issues that require further debate. For
example, some who participated in our review, as well as some members of
Congress, would like to see more sweeping reforms to the use of national
security letters so that we have to go to a judge each time before issuing these
requests. Here, I have concerns that we should not set a standard for terrorism
investigations that is higher than those involved in investigating an ordinary
crime. But I agree that greater oversight on the use of these letters may be
appropriate, and I'm prepared to work with Congress on this issue.

There are also those who would like to see different changes to the FISA Court
than the ones I've proposed. On all these issues, I am open to working with
Congress to ensure that we build a broad consensus for how to move forward, and
I'm confident that we can shape an approach that meets our security needs while
upholding the civil liberties of every American.

Let me now turn to the separate set of concerns that have been raised overseas,
and focus on America's approach to intelligence collection abroad. As I've
indicated, the United States has unique responsibilities when it comes to
intelligence collection. Our capabilities help protect not only our nation, but
our friends and our allies, as well. But our efforts will only be effective if
ordinary citizens in other countries have confidence that the United States
respects their privacy, too. And the leaders of our close friends and allies
deserve to know that if I want to know what they think about an issue, I'll pick
up the phone and call them, rather than turning to surveillance. In other words,
just as we balance security and privacy at home, our global leadership demands
that we balance our security requirements against our need to maintain the trust
and cooperation among people and leaders around the world.

For that reason, the new presidential directive that I've issued today will
clearly prescribe what we do, and do not do, when it comes to our overseas
surveillance. To begin with, the directive makes clear that the United States
only uses signals intelligence for legitimate national security purposes, and
not for the purpose of indiscriminately reviewing the emails or phone calls of
ordinary folks. I've also made it clear that the United States does not collect
intelligence to suppress criticism or dissent, nor do we collect intelligence to
disadvantage people on the basis of their ethnicity, or race, or gender, or
sexual orientation, or religious beliefs. We do not collect intelligence to
provide a competitive advantage to U.S. companies or U.S. commercial sectors.

And in terms of our bulk collection of signals intelligence, U.S. intelligence
agencies will only use such data to meet specific security requirements:
counterintelligence, counterterrorism, counter-proliferation, cybersecurity,
force protection for our troops and our allies, and combating transnational
crime, including sanctions evasion.

In this directive, I have taken the unprecedented step of extending certain
protections that we have for the American people to people overseas. I've
directed the DNI, in consultation with the Attorney General, to develop these
safeguards, which will limit the duration that we can hold personal information,
while also restricting the use of this information.

The bottom line is that people around the world, regardless of their
nationality, should know that the United States is not spying on ordinary people
who don't threaten our national security, and that we take their privacy
concerns into account in our policies and procedures. This applies to foreign
leaders as well. Given the understandable attention that this issue has
received, I have made clear to the intelligence community that unless there is a
compelling national security purpose, we will not monitor the communications of
heads of state and government of our close friends and allies. And I've
instructed my national security team, as well as the intelligence community, to
work with foreign counterparts to deepen our coordination and cooperation in
ways that rebuild trust going forward.

Now let me be clear: Our intelligence agencies will continue to gather
information about the intentions of governments -- as opposed to ordinary
citizens -- around the world, in the same way that the intelligence services of
every other nation does. We will not apologize simply because our services may
be more effective. But heads of state and government with whom we work closely,
and on whose cooperation we depend, should feel confident that we are treating
them as real partners. And the changes I've ordered do just that.

Finally, to make sure that we follow through on all these reforms, I am making
some important changes to how our government is organized. The State Department
will designate a senior officer to coordinate our diplomacy on issues related to
technology and signals intelligence. We will appoint a senior official at the
White House to implement the new privacy safeguards that I have announced today.
I will devote the resources to centralize and improve the process we use to
handle foreign requests for legal assistance, keeping our high standards for
privacy while helping foreign partners fight crime and terrorism.

I have also asked my counselor, John Podesta, to lead a comprehensive review of
big data and privacy. And this group will consist of government officials who,
along with the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, will
reach out to privacy experts, technologists and business leaders, and look how
the challenges inherent in big data are being confronted by both the public and
private sectors; whether we can forge international norms on how to manage this
data; and how we can continue to promote the free flow of information in ways
that are consistent with both privacy and security.

For ultimately, what's at stake in this debate goes far beyond a few months of
headlines, or passing tensions in our foreign policy. When you cut through the
noise, what's really at stake is how we remain true to who we are in a world
that is remaking itself at dizzying speed. Whether it's the ability of
individuals to communicate ideas; to access information that would have once
filled every great library in every country in the world; or to forge bonds with
people on other sides of the globe, technology is remaking what is possible for
individuals, and for institutions, and for the international order. So while the
reforms that I have announced will point us in a new direction, I am mindful
that more work will be needed in the future.

One thing I'm certain of: This debate will make us stronger. And I also know
that in this time of change, the United States of America will have to lead. It
may seem sometimes that America is being held to a different standard. And I'll
admit the readiness of some to assume the worst motives by our government can be
frustrating. No one expects China to have an open debate about their
surveillance programs, or Russia to take privacy concerns of citizens in other
places into account. But let's remember: We are held to a different standard
precisely because we have been at the forefront of defending personal privacy
and human dignity.

As the nation that developed the Internet, the world expects us to ensure that
the digital revolution works as a tool for individual empowerment, not
government control. Having faced down the dangers of totalitarianism and fascism
and communism, the world expects us to stand up for the principle that every
person has the right to think and write and form relationships freely -- because
individual freedom is the wellspring of human progress.

Those values make us who we are. And because of the strength of our own
democracy, we should not shy away from high expectations. For more than two
centuries, our Constitution has weathered every type of change because we have
been willing to defend it, and because we have been willing to question the
actions that have been taken in its defense. Today is no different. I believe we
can meet high expectations. Together, let us chart a way forward that secures
the life of our nation while preserving the liberties that make our nation worth
fighting for.

Thank you. God bless you. May God bless the United States of America.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/01/18/us/politics/obamas-speech-on-nsa-phone-surveil
lance.html

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 18, 2014 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Keeping U.S. Grip on Data Pipeline

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and CLAIRE CAIN MILLER; David E. Sanger reported from
Washington, and Claire Cain Miller from San Francisco. Quentin Hardy contributed
reporting from San Francisco.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1240 words


WASHINGTON -- Google, which briefly considered moving all of its computer
servers out of the United States last year after learning how they had been
penetrated by the National Security Agency, was looking for a public assurance
from President Obama that the government would no longer secretly suck data from
the company's corner of the Internet cloud.

Microsoft was listening to see if Mr. Obama would adopt a recommendation from
his advisers that the government stop routinely stockpiling flaws in its Windows
operating system, then using them to penetrate some foreign computer systems
and, in rare cases, launch cyberattacks.

Intel and computer security companies were eager to hear Mr. Obama embrace a
commitment that the United States would never knowingly move to weaken
encryption systems.

They got none of that.

Perhaps the most striking element of Mr. Obama's speech on Friday was what it
omitted: While he bolstered some protections for citizens who fear the N.S.A. is
downloading their every dial, tweet and text message, he did nothing, at least
yet, to loosen the agency's grip on the world's digital pipelines.

White House officials said that Mr. Obama was committed to studying the
complaints by American industry that the revelations were costing them billions
of dollars in business overseas, by giving everyone from the Germans to the
Brazilians to the Chinese an excuse to avoid American hardware and cloud
services.

''The most interesting part of this speech was not how the president weighed
individual privacy against the N.S.A.,'' said Fred H. Cate, the director of the
Center of Applied Cybersecurity Research at Indiana University, ''but that he
said little about what to do about the agency's practice of vacuuming up
everything it can get its hands on.''

Professor Cate, who also advises the Department of Homeland Security on cyber
issues, noted that Mr. Obama ''took a report that had 46 recommendations, and
touched on three or four of them.''

In fact, he did more than that: Mr. Obama reminded the country that it was not
only the government that was monitoring users of the web, it was also companies
like Apple, Facebook, Twitter and Yahoo that had complained so loudly, as
members of an industry group called Reform Government Surveillance.

''Corporations of all shapes and sizes track what you buy, store and analyze our
data, and use it for commercial purposes,'' the president said. ''That's how
those targeted ads pop up on your computer and your smartphone periodically.''

Translation: Corporate America wants to be able to mine Americans' data, but
fears business will be hurt when the government uses it for intelligence
purposes.

In fact, behind the speech lies a struggle Mr. Obama nodded at but never
addressed head on. It pits corporations that view themselves as the core of
America's soft power around the world -- the country's economic driver and the
guardians of its innovative edge -- against an intelligence community 100,000
strong that regards its ability to peer into any corner of the digital world,
and manipulate it if necessary, as crucial to the country's security.

In public, the coalition was polite if unenthusiastic about the president's
speech. His proposals, the companies said in a statement, ''represent positive
progress on key issues,'' even while ''crucial details remain to be addressed on
these issues, and additional steps are needed on other important issues.''

But in the online chat rooms that users and employees of those services inhabit
each day, the president's words were mocked. ''If they really cared about the
security of US infrastructure, they'd divulge the vulnerabilities they found or
bought from the black market that exploit the security of these systems, so
those systems can be fixed, and no one else can exploit them with these
exploits,'' wrote a user called ''higherpurpose'' on Hacker News.

''Instead they keep them for themselves so they can exploit them,'' the user
wrote.

In an interview, a senior administration official acknowledged that the
administration had weighed what the president could say in public about the
delicate problems of encryption, or the N.S.A.'s use of ''zero day'' flaws in
software, the name for security holes that have never been seen before. It is a
subject the intelligence agencies have refused to discuss in public, and Mr.
Obama determined that it was both too secret, and too fluid, to discuss in the
speech, officials said.

In response to questions, the White House said the president had asked his
special assistant for cybersecurity, Michael Daniel, and the president's office
of science and technology policy to study a recent advisory panel's
recommendation that the government get out of the business of corrupting the
encryption systems created by American companies.

It will not be an easy task. One of the recent disclosures, first reported by
Reuters, indicated that the N.S.A. paid millions of dollars to RSA, a major
encryption firm, to incorporate a deliberately weakened algorithm into some of
its products, giving the government a ''back door'' to read whatever it wanted.
But when the advisory panel concluded that the United States should not ''in any
way subvert, weaken or make vulnerable generally available commercial
software,'' the intelligence agencies protested.

''Some in the intelligence community saw that as a call for the N.S.A. to get
out of cryptography, which is the reason they were created,'' the senior
official said. He added: ''We've said that we are very much supportive of U.S.
industry and making sure that U.S. industry remains competitive, and able to
produce really good products. And N.S.A. has been out there saying they have no
interest in breaking encryption that guards global commerce.''

But as Mr. Obama himself acknowledged, the United States has a credibility
problem that will take years to address. The discovery that it had monitored the
cellphone of Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, or that it has now found a way
to tap into computers around the world that are completely disconnected from the
Internet -- using covert radio waves -- only fuels the argument that American
products cannot be trusted.

That argument, heard these days from Berlin to Mexico City, may only be an
excuse for protectionism. But it is an excuse that often works.

''When your products are considered to not only be flawed but intentionally
flawed in the support of intelligence missions, don't expect people to buy
them,'' said Dan Kaminsky, a security researcher and chief scientist at White
Ops, an antifraud company whose clients include many of the nation's biggest
data users,

Mr. Obama will have to address those issues at some point. Every time he meets
Silicon Valley executives, many of whom enthusiastically campaigned for him,
they remind him of their complaints. But at the Justice Department on Friday, he
reminded them that the battle for cyberspace runs in all directions.

''We cannot unilaterally disarm our intelligence agencies,'' he said at one
point in the speech. ''There is a reason why BlackBerrys and iPhones are not
allowed in the White House Situation Room. We know that the intelligence
services of other countries -- including some who feign surprise over the
Snowden disclosures -- are constantly probing our government and private sector
networks, and accelerating programs to listen to our conversations, and
intercept our emails and compromise our systems.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/01/18/technology/in-keeping-grip-on-data-pipeline-ob
ama-does-little-to-reassure-industry.html

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama on Friday announced changes in a contentious
surveillance program that has  swept up many millions of records of Americans'
cellphone calls, though not their content. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN
PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 20, 2014 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's Happening With the Air Force?

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 452 words


If the Air Force cheating scandal disclosed last week were a singular event, it
would be easier to accept Pentagon assurances that America's nuclear deterrence
and military readiness have not been compromised. But it is the latest in a
series of breaches that have raised alarms about discipline and competency in
the Air Force.

On Wednesday, the Air Force said that 34 officers responsible for launching
land-based nuclear missiles were pulled off the job and their security
clearances suspended for cheating, or failing to report cheating, on tests that
assess their knowledge of how to operate and launch nuclear weapons. They are
based at Malmstrom Air Force Base in Montana, home to 150 Minuteman 3
intercontinental ballistic missiles. The cheating was discovered during an
investigation into illegal drug possession in which 11 officers, including two
accused in the cheating scandal, were under suspicion.

Air Force Secretary Deborah Lee James called the behavior ''absolutely
unacceptable'' -- as is the continuing pattern of misconduct. Last month, an Air
Force inquiry revealed that the general who oversaw some of the nation's nuclear
weapons was dismissed for drunken antics during an official trip to Moscow last
summer.

Last year, the service removed 17 officers assigned to stand watch over the
missiles in Minot, N.D., after finding safety violations, potential violations
in protecting codes and other problems. The setbacks for the nuclear mission go
back to 2008, when there was an inadvertent cross-country transport of six
nuclear-tipped missiles on a B-52 bomber whose pilot did not know they were
aboard. Then Defense Secretary Robert Gates fired the top two Air Force
officials, but problems have persisted.

A RAND Corporation study, reported by The A.P. in November, found ''burnout''
among launch officers and broader behavioral issues, like sexual assaults and
domestic violence. It said that in 2011 and 2012, court-martial rates in the
nuclear missile force were more than twice as high as in the overall Air Force;
written reprimands for rule violations and other misbehavior were also higher.

The nuclear force is afflicted by morale problems because its mission has lost
cachet in an era when the nation's focus is on terrorism and cyber threats.
Experts say the Air Force has made it hard for missile operators to transfer
into cyber, drone or space operations, which have more potential for promotion.

Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel is willing to consider additional incentives to
bolster these troops. The scandals should force America to think more broadly
about the purpose of its vast and increasingly obsolete nuclear arsenal, and how
the nation could be safer with far fewer weapons.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/01/20/opinion/whats-happening-with-the-air-force.htm
l

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 20, 2014 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lawmakers Suggest Snowden Link to Russia Before He Leaked Data

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1097 words


WASHINGTON -- The heads of the House and Senate Intelligence Committees
suggested on Sunday that Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency
contractor, might have been working for Russian spy services while he was
employed at an agency facility in Hawaii last year and before he disclosed
hundreds of thousands of classified government documents.

The lawmakers, Representative Mike Rogers, Republican of Michigan, and Senator
Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, offered no specific evidence that Mr.
Snowden had cooperated with Moscow. Since Mr. Snowden's disclosure first became
public last spring, there has been much speculation that he was collaborating
with a foreign spy service.

Nearly a year later, however, there has been no public indication that the
F.B.I.'s investigation of Mr. Snowden's actions, bolstered by separate ''damage
assessment'' investigations at the N.S.A. and the Pentagon, has uncovered
evidence that Mr. Snowden received help from a foreign intelligence service. A
senior F.B.I. official said on Sunday that it was still the bureau's conclusion
that Mr. Snowden acted alone.

The questions raised by Mr. Rogers and Ms. Feinstein came as the F.B.I.
continues its investigation of Mr. Snowden, and as the debate rages about
whether he was a traitor, a whistle-blower or a violator of his oaths who
nonetheless started what President Obama again last week called an important
debate. To some, he is all three.

The initial portrayals of Mr. Snowden depicted a young man shocked by the scope
of government surveillance and determined to expose it. In his insistence that
he would release only documents showing what he viewed as government wrongdoing
or overreach by intelligence agencies, he appeared to be cultivating an image as
a whistle-blower.

The main recipients of his materials, including The Washington Post and The
Guardian, have said that Mr. Snowden insisted that material revealing
operations, but no wrongdoing, should not appear in public.

But Mr. Rogers described a very different view of Mr. Snowden, as a man who,
from the beginning, might have knowingly or unknowingly been directed by a
foreign intelligence service. He said the mass of military data in the Snowden
trove clearly had nothing to do with privacy or the reach of intelligence
services, and he suggested that Mr. Snowden's possession of a ''go bag'' to get
out of Hawaii, and his smooth entry into Hong Kong, indicated preplanning beyond
his individual capacity.

Intelligence officials say they have no doubt that Chinese and Russian
intelligence have obtained whatever information Mr. Snowden was carrying with
him digitally. They also say it is possible that much of the data Mr. Snowden
took is stored in an Internet cloud service.

Mr. Snowden has said he did not turn over any documents to any foreign
governments; American officials say that given the cyber skills of the Russian
and Chinese intelligence agencies, they assume that those countries could have
gotten them without Mr. Snowden's knowledge.

Mr. Obama weighed in on the subject in a newly released interview with David
Remnick of The New Yorker. He insisted Mr. Snowden had not revealed any
illegalities, and though he might have raised ''legitimate policy questions''
the question was, ''Is the only way to do that by giving some 29-year-old free
rein to basically dump a mountain of information, much of which is definitely
legal, definitely necessary for national security, and should properly be
classified?''

Mr. Obama insisted that ''the benefit of the debate he generated was not worth
the damage done, because there was another way of doing it.'' But he did not say
what that way was, and even his own aides acknowledge that if Mr. Snowden had
not made so much information public, it was doubtful that the president would
have announced the reforms and further studies of N.S.A. actions that he spoke
about on Friday.

On Sunday, Mr. Rogers appeared to hinge many of his suspicions about Mr. Snowden
on a recent Defense Intelligence Agency report that he has described in other
interviews as concluding that Mr. Snowden stole about 1.7 million intelligence
files that concern vital operations of the United States Army, Navy, Marine
Corps and Air Force. He said that it would cost billions of dollars to change
operations because of the security breaches.

The defense intelligence report remains classified, though some members of
Congress have been briefed on it in recent weeks.

''I don't think it was a gee-whiz luck event that he ended up in Moscow under
the handling of the F.S.B.,'' Mr. Rogers said on the NBC program ''Meet the
Press,'' referring to the Federal Security Service, the Russian state security
organization that succeeded the K.G.B.

Ben Wizner, an American Civil Liberties Union lawyer who advises Mr. Snowden,
said in a telephone interview on Sunday that Mr. Rogers's statement was ''not
only false, it is silly.''

Mr. Wizner said that Mr. Snowden's actions before seeking asylum in Russia were
not consistent with someone who was working for a foreign government, pointing
out that Mr. Snowden flew to Hong Kong, where he gave classified documents to
American journalists. He then sought to travel to Ecuador, and was marooned for
five weeks in the transit zone of Moscow's international airport while he sought
asylum in some 20 countries.

Mr. Wizner also criticized Mr. Rogers' description of the defense agency report
as ''exaggerated national security claims.''

American suspicions had been raised in part, according to one official familiar
with the intelligence, because intelligence agencies believe that some of the
information apparently stored with an Internet cloud service has been changed or
moved in recent months. It is not clear how much American intelligence agencies
know about where all the trove of data is now stored.

The United States is concerned that Russian agents may have access to the data
while Mr. Snowden is in the country under temporary asylum, or in exchange for
his asylum.

Ms. Feinstein, when asked by David Gregory, the host of ''Meet the Press,''
whether she agreed with Mr. Rogers that Mr. Snowden might have had help from the
Russians, was more tentative: ''He may well have. We don't know at this stage.''

Both lawmakers said their committees would continue their investigations.

Mr. Snowden has been living in Russia since June; in August the authorities
there granted him temporary asylum. The Russian government has refused to
extradite Mr. Snowden, who has been charged with espionage and stealing
government property, to the United States.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/01/20/us/politics/congressional-leaders-suggest-snow
den-was-working-for-russia.html

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                            January 21, 2014 Tuesday

Today in Small Business: 'Letmein'

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 346 words



HIGHLIGHT: New York&#8217;s small businesses look to score with the Super Bowl.
Where to find the world&#8217;s biggest tea drinkers. And a shortage of
car-charging stations in Silicon Valley.


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.

Management


     ·    Are you using one of the worst passwords of 2013
     ·    A study finds that nearly half of baby boomers still working say they
          don't expect to retire until they are 66 or older. One in 10 say they
          will never retire.
     ·    These are five one-minute "business growth hacks" for when you're
          under pressure.
     ·    A study confirms that optimism and a positive outlook help people stay
          healthier.



Entrepreneurship


     ·    Here are five entrepreneurial lessons from Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.


Employees


     ·    This headset tells workers when it's time to take a break.


Online


     ·    Ebay is reportedly planning a new marketplace that will enable brands
          to sell directly to customers.
     ·    Here are four things about your website that matter more than you
          think.
     ·    A Score presentation will help owners determine if they should spend
          their time and money on Facebook. And here are 11 ways to increase
          engagement on Facebook.


Around the Country


     ·    A shortage of electric car-charging stations is causing outrage in
          Silicon Valley.
     ·    New York's small businesses look to score with the Super Bowl.
     ·    A tea shop owner in West Toledo, Ohio, has been embroiled for months
          in a battle with the city of Toledo about a sign.


Around the World


     ·    Here are a few tips for those thinking of traveling to North Korea.
     ·    Here is where to find the world's biggest tea drinkers.
     ·    China's economy grew 7.7 percent in 2013.
     ·    Fred Wilson says he finds it easier to invest in Europe from New York
          City than from Silicon Valley.
     ·    This is how toilet paper explains the world.


Technology


     ·    Hackers have used a refrigerator to send spam emails in the first
          proven cyber attack of its kind.


Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., a consulting firm that
helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on
Twitter.


     ·    This Week in Small Business: Meet Your Start-Up Mate
     ·    Why 2013 Was Our Best Year Ever (Except for One Crucial Metric)
     ·    Today in Small Business: Target Goes Small
     ·    Meet Maria Contreras-Sweet: An S.B.A. Nominee With Lending Experience
     ·    What I Miss When I'm in China (and Arizona)


LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           January 22, 2014 Wednesday

New Security Report Confirms Everyone Is Spying On Everyone

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 409 words



HIGHLIGHT: A new security report confirms previous findings that Chinese hackers
are hard at work, the Syrian Electronic Army is getting better and hackers in
the Middle East and North Africa are ramping up their capabilities. Needless to
say, the N.S.A. is in good company.


Lest we forget, the National Security Agency is in good company.

A new security report confirms that Chinese hackers spied on The New York Times
in 2012, as well as attendees of the G20 Summit in St. Petersburg last fall.
Iranian hackers spied on dissidents in the lead up to state elections last May.
The Syrian Electronic Army is only getting better, and North Korean hackers were
behind a destructive cyberattack that wiped data from South Korean banks last
year.

These were just some of the findings of CrowdStrike, the hot Laguna Niguel,
Calif. security start-up which tracked more than 50 hacking groups last year.
The company, started by George Kurtz, the antivirus company McAfee's former
chief technology officer, and Dmitry Alperovitch, McAfee's former vice president
of threat research, produced its findings in an annual report Wednesday.

The report buttresses previous findings by The New York Times, Google, and a
number of other security firms, including FireEye, the Milpitas, Calif. based
security software firm that acquired Mandiant last year.

It also offered a number of interesting new discoveries. Among them:


     ·    A Russian hacking group that Crowdstrike calls "Energetic Bear" was
          behind a range of cyberattacks in 23 countries that predominantly
          affected Western energy companies and a broad range of other targets.
          Among them: European governments and defense contractors; American,
          European and Asian universities; American health providers;
          manufacturing and construction companies in the Middle East, Europe
          and U.S. and research institutes.
     ·    As security software becomes more prolific, hackers continue to make
          their way down the food chain to computer hardware where it is much
          more difficult to identify and remove.
     ·    Regional conflicts such as the Syrian Civil War and protests in the
          Middle East continue to spillover into cyber conflict.
     ·    Hackers in the Middle East and North Africa are ramping up their
          hacking capabilities.
     ·    High-profile world events such as the upcoming Sochi Olympics and
          World Cup and upcoming elections in Egypt, Iraq, Tunisia and Turkey
          may coincide with cyberattacks as was the case with the G20 Summit
          last fall.


Needless to say, this won't be slow year for the $67 billion cybersecurity
industry.


     ·    China Denies Spying on European Diplomats
     ·    Stop Asking Me for My Email Address
     ·    Snapchat Breach Exposes Weak Security
     ·    Target's Nightmare Goes On: Encrypted PIN Data Stolen
     ·    Researchers Hack Webcam While Disabling Warning Lights


LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 24, 2014 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pentagon Study Finds Agencies Ill Equipped to Detect Foreign Nuclear Efforts

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 807 words


WASHINGTON -- A three-year study by the Pentagon has concluded that American
intelligence agencies are ''not yet organized or fully equipped'' to detect when
foreign powers are developing nuclear weapons or ramping up their existing
arsenals, and calls for using some of the same techniques that the National
Security Agency has developed against terrorists.

The study, a 100-page report by the Defense Science Board, contends that the
detection abilities needed in cases like Iran -- including finding ''undeclared
facilities and/or covert operations'' -- are ''either inadequate, or more often,
do not exist.''

The report is circulating just two months before President Obama will attend his
third nuclear security summit meeting, set for March in The Hague, an effort he
began in order to lock down loose nuclear materials and, eventually, reduce the
number of countries that could build nuclear weapons. Mr. Obama's efforts to
sweep up the materials have largely been considered a success. But the report
concluded that potential new nuclear states are ''emerging in numbers not seen
since the early days of the Cold War,'' and that ''monitoring for proliferation
should be a top national security objective -- but one for which the nation is
not yet organized or fully equipped to address.''

The report confirmed what many outside experts have learned anecdotally: While
the most famous intelligence failure in the past decade involving nuclear
weapons occurred in Iraq, where the C.I.A. and others saw a program that did not
exist, the bigger concern may be that major nuclear programs were entirely
missed.

American officials first learned of a reactor in Syria, built with North Korean
assistance, when the Israelis alerted them. (Israel destroyed the facility in
2007.) North Korea, early during the Obama administration, built a uranium
enrichment facility that went undetected until the North showed it off to a
visiting professor from Stanford.

''The lesson from this history is that we found these at the last moment, if we
found them at all,'' said Bruce Riedel, a former C.I.A. expert on terrorism and
nuclear proliferation who is now at the Brookings Institution.

The Defense Science Board came to a similar conclusion. It said that in the
future, satellite photographs and other reconnaissance will most likely be of
limited use. Instead, it suggested that many of the cyber and big-data programs
developed by the N.S.A. should be used to detect proliferation, a bet that the
United States would be more likely to pick up evidence of scientists and
engineers talking, emailing, or searching for nuclear-related technologies than
it would be to see a weapons facility being built.

In fact, the growing need to detect proliferation was one of the arguments Mr.
Obama made last Friday in his speech explaining why many of the programs started
by the N.S.A. in recent years must be preserved.

A former senior intelligence official familiar with the report, which was
commissioned by Ashton B. Carter, the former deputy secretary of defense who
resigned late last year, said the effort was to focus the government's efforts
on the global dimensions of the atomic threat.

''One of the highest priorities of successive administrations is countering
proliferation,'' the official said. ''But there's little coherence on what
agencies do to move that interest forward.''

The range of government departments that were interviewed by the Defense Science
Board underscores how spread out the effort has become: Officials of several of
the nation's 16 intelligence agencies participated, along with four of the
Energy Department's National Laboratories and its National Nuclear Security
Administration, the Department of Homeland Security, the Defense Threat
Reduction Agency and the White House's National Security Council.

The former senior official said that many signs of a nuclear program could be
found by monitoring open sources, and that clues there are frequently
overlooked.

''There's always evidence of it,'' he said of clandestine nuclear activity,
speaking on the condition of anonymity. For instance, he said, how much of a
country's gross domestic product is devoted to certain industries could be a
significant clue.

''From open sources you can put that together,'' he said. ''But no entity in the
government brings coherence to all these things.''

The report did not name any specific countries that are under American
surveillance because of their current or suspected weapons programs. But it is
no secret that the United States spends enormous resources tracking Pakistan's
arsenal, along with those of Russia, China, India, North Korea and Israel.

The report implicitly called into question whether administration officials
should be so confident that they would detect if Iran ever violated the nuclear
accord that began this week.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/01/24/us/politics/us-efforts-to-detect-nuclear-progr
ams-are-inadequate-pentagon-study-finds.html

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ashton B. Carter, a former  deputy secretary of defense,
commissioned a study. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/E.P.A.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            January 24, 2014 Friday

Bitcoin Is Not Yet Ready for the Real World

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1150 words



HIGHLIGHT: Before Bitcoin can become a reliable payment method for regular
consumer transactions, several significant risks need to be assessed and
addressed, writes Mark T. Williams in Another View.



Mark T. Williams, a former commodities trading floor senior executive and
Federal Reserve Bank examiner, teaches banking, finance and risk management at
Boston University School of Management.

It is understandable why some in the venture capital sector are over the moon
about Bitcoin and its endless possibilities. Marc Andreessen of Andreessen
Horowitz, has about 50 million reasons why he wants Bitcoin to succeed. The only
problem is that Bitcoin is a concept dreamed up in the virtual world and is not
yet ready for the real world.

Bitcoin technology and its lower-cost payment system design may be elegant but
that does not mean it should be blindly embraced and adopted. The payment system
and Bitcoin as an e-currency can't be divorced from each other. Before  Bitcoin
becomes a regular and reliable method for consumer transactions, several
significant risks need to be assessed and addressed:


Reputational Risk
Is Bitcoin an innovative response to facilitate meaningful commerce or simply a
designer currency for the criminally inclined?  For Bitcoin to function as a
currency, it has to be trusted as an honest means for transacting business.  Its
reputation needs to be rock solid.

Since its inception, Bitcoin has been a decentralized experiment with a morphing
purpose. In 2009, in response to the Great Recession, Bitcoin was seen as a way
to take back control from irresponsible central bankers, reallocating power of
currency to the people through computer code and a decentralized payment system.
However, creating an unregulated and untraceable currency also made it the
currency of choice for those engaged in illicit activities.

The F.B.I.'s takedown of Silk Road in October 2013 significantly tarnished
Bitcoin's reputation by exposing a deep web of drugs, guns, prostitution,
assassins for hire and a ready tool for tax evasion and money laundering.

Trojan Horse Risk
For the last five years, the pseudo name of Satoshi  Nakamoto has been used to
symbolize the innovative genius (or team) behind Bitcoin.  Given that Bitcoin
has mushroomed to $10 billion in value and prospects for commercialization
abound, it is puzzling why this supposed e-currency messiah has not stepped
forward. What if Satoshi Nakamoto is not real, and his likeness was manufactured
by some cybercriminals to generate investor excitement?

At this embryonic stage it seems only logical that the true spokesman, not just
someone from the venture capital industry, should step forward to part the
waters, lead the followers and show the way.  Or at least be the industry face
before the growing number of e-currency regulatory hearings that will help shape
industry economics and future prospects.

Could it be that this coding genius is instead enjoying computer-manufactured
riches on some remote, tax-free island, or is he a cyber-terrorist who upon
Bitcoin adoption will activate a Trojan-horse virus to bring world commerce back
to the Stone Age?

Asset Bubble Risk
The speculative mania generated around Bitcoin has created a hyper asset bubble
that is ready to pop.  Since 2013, Bitcoin has risen from $13 to as high as
$1,200 with price appreciation of more than 9,000 percent. There are 12.3
million coins outstanding, over 90 percent are hoarded, which helps to
artificially inflate values.

Ownership is also extremely concentrated, increasing market manipulation risk.
As prices have grown to the clouds, many Bitcoin millionaires have been minted
along the way. But what supports these lofty prices?

Bitcoin is neither a legal entity, nor a start-up, and no stock is available for
investors to purchase.  It has no management team, board, balance sheet,
business plan or even a coherent vision on how to commercialize technology that
has been given away in the market for free.  Even Mr. Andreessen, the venture
capitalist, disclosed that he held only a de minimis amount of Bitcoin, making
it clear that smart money is not betting on e-coins but directly on
Bitcoin-related start-ups.

Increasingly, as Bitcoin investors gain greater awareness of what they actually
bought (and more important not bought), values will fall further.  In the last
month, Bitcoin has dropped by about 30 percent.  The bursting of the Bitcoin
bubble will put in jeopardy the viability of the lauded payment system as it
can't be easily separated from the use of Bitcoin as its currency.

Consumer and Investor Protection Risk
Bitcoin is built around an unregulated, decentralized and untraceable coin. No
legal protection is in place to assist consumers or investors.

If a consumer were to send a Bitcoin to the wrong e-wallet, if a hard drive
storing coins were corrupted (intentionally or unintentionally), or an e-wallet
picked, coin value is lost forever.  The chance of counterfeiting increases as
the profit potential has risen. Already, of the e-coins outstanding, an
estimated 4 percent, or $400 million, have been permanently lost.

As Bitcoin's value has skyrocketed, the amount of fraud related to stolen coins
has increased.  Recently, it was reported that $220 million in coins were stolen
and not recovered.  It is hard to track fraudulent activities and those who
perpetrate these acts because e-coins are untraceable.  For Bitcoin to work and
protect consumers and investors, there needs to be clear legal protection.  This
will have to be implemented on a nation-by-nation basis with international
cooperation. Without it, unacceptably high risk will persist and limit adoption.

Regulatory Risk
Bitcoin's rapid price climb and growing visibility has also been its greatest
weakness.  In the last month, some of the world's wealthiest nations have
realized that there are the numerous risks and the economic instability Bitcoin
could pose if not properly regulated.

There are a growing number of nations that have begun to debunk the idea it
could serve as a real currency.  China, the second-largest economy in the world,
announced in December that it would not accept Bitcoin, and within 48 hours the
price dropped as much as 50 percent. Other influential nations and authorities
have also spoken out against Bitcoin, including Denmark,  Finland, France,
India, Norway, Sweden, Thailand and the European Banking Authority.

Next week, the New York State Department of Financial Services will hold an
important hearing to further help clarify the role that Bitcoin should or should
not play as it relates to our financial sector. Under this growing regulatory
climate and concerns about not being able to prevent money laundering, American
commercial banks are hesitant to open accounts with Bitcoin-related start-ups.

Increasingly, the fate of the commercial viability of e-currencies is moving
into the hands of nations, their regulators and financial protectors and out of
the control of Bitcoin enthusiasts.


     ·    Quantifying Europe's 'Too Big to Fail' Problem
     ·    Exporting U.S. Rules for Foreign Banks


LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            January 27, 2014 Monday

R.B.S. to Take Nearly $5 Billion Charge Related to Litigation Claims

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 683 words



HIGHLIGHT: Ross M. McEwan, the new chief executive of Royal Bank of Scotland,
has hit another roadblock in his efforts to turn around the bank, which received
billions of dollars from the British government in a bailout five years ago.


LONDON - The Royal Bank of Scotland said it would take nearly £3 billion, or
about $4.97 billion, in charges to cover potential litigation claims related to
mortgage-backed securities and other products sold before the financial crisis.
That hit, on top of other charges announced last year, will likely produce a
loss for the bank for 2013.

Bailed out by the British government five years ago, Royal Bank of Scotland said
it would take a £1.9 billion charge for potential claims related to
mortgage-backed securities and other securities litigation in the United States.

It also will take additional £465 million provision to cover claims related to
payment protection insurance, a controversial insurance product that British
banks have paid billions of dollars in claims for being improperly sold, and
another £500 million to cover claims related to so-called interest rate hedging
products.

R.B.S. had paid out £2.2 billion in claims and other costs related to payment
protection insurance claims as of Dec. 31 after setting aside £3.1 billion to
cover those claims. The bank had previously set aside £1.25 billion to cover
claims related to the interest-rate products.

"Billions of pounds have been spent to resolve conduct and litigation issues in
recent years," said Ross M. McEwan, the bank's chief executive. "Costs on this
scale were not predicted by anyone when R.B.S. was rescued in 2008. They come in
addition to the costs of restructuring the bank's bad assets and restoring its
funding to prudent levels after the financial crisis."

The announcement comes about a little more than a week after Deutsche Bank
reported its results earlier than expected, saying it had posted a loss of 1.2
billion euros, or about $1.64 billion, related to litigation and restructuring
costs.

R.B.S. is scheduled to report its results on Feb. 27.

Mr. McEwan, who took over as C.E.O. in October, has already said he would not
take a bonus for the bank's performance in 2013 and 2014. On Monday, R.B.S. said
that the eight other members of its executive committee would not receive
bonuses for 2013.

"We have to show we take accountability seriously," Mr. McEwan said on a
conference call with journalists on Monday evening.

Last year, R.B.S. said that it planned to create an internal "bad bank," known
as R.B.S. Capital Resolution, to manage about £38 billion in troubled assets. On
Monday, the bank reiterated that it expects to report impairments and
asset-valuation adjustments associated with that strategy in the range of £4
billion to £4.5 billion in the fourth quarter.

"We have a stronger bank that can take these provisions," Mr. McEwan said
Monday.

Mr. McEwan has said he wants to change the culture of R.B.S., which received £45
billion from the British government during the financial crisis five years ago
and repay the government as quickly as possible.

But, he has had to navigate a series of bad news and bad luck as he tries to
turn around the bank, which is 81 percent owned by the British government.

The Financial Conduct Authority, a British financial regulator, is reviewing the
bank's lending practices after two reports last year criticized its treatment of
small and medium-sized business clients, including claims the bank pushed some
business clients into serious financial difficulties. R.B.S. separately hired
the law firm Clifford Chance to conduct an independent inquiry into the claims.

A systems crash in December left customers unable to pay with their debit or
credit cards on "Cyber Monday," one of the busiest online shopping days of the
year. Then, Nathan Bostock, the bank's chief financial officer, resigned after
less than three months on the job.

The bank also has found itself recently in the middle of a dispute between Prime
Minister David Cameron and Ed Miliband, the leader of the opposition Labour
Party over banker bonuses. Mr. Miliband wants the British government to block
any attempts by R.B.S. to pay bonuses up to double a banker's annual salary.


     ·    British Regulator Steps Up Review of R.B.S. Loans
     ·    Royal Bank of Scotland to Pay $153.7 Million to Settle Mortgage Case


LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 28, 2014 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Past Sins Haunting Royal Bank of Scotland

BYLINE: By CHAD BRAY

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 735 words


Nearly six years after the financial crisis, the sins of the past still weigh
heavily on the Royal Bank of Scotland.

Bailed out by the British government in 2008, the bank said on Monday that it
would set aside nearly 3 billion pounds, or about $4.97 billion, to cover
potential litigation claims related to mortgage-backed securities and other
products sold before the financial crisis. The new provisions, on top of more
than £4 billion in charges announced in November, are expected to drag the bank
into a deep loss for 2013 when it reports results next month.

Eight top executives of the bank -- the British government holds an 81 percent
stake in it -- will not receive bonuses for 2013 as a result, the bank said. Its
chief executive, Ross M. McEwan, who took the reins in October, has already said
that he will not take a bonus for 2013 and 2014.

''We have to show we take accountability seriously,'' Mr. McEwan said in a
conference call with journalists Monday evening.

The charge is the latest setback for the chief executive as he tries to change
the bank's culture and prepare it for private ownership.

''Billions of pounds have been spent to resolve conduct and litigation issues in
recent years,'' Mr. McEwan said. ''Costs on this scale were not predicted by
anyone when R.B.S. was rescued in 2008. They come in addition to the costs of
restructuring the bank's bad assets and restoring its funding to prudent levels
after the financial crisis.''

A little more than a week ago, Deutsche Bank reported its results earlier than
expected, saying it had posted a loss of 1.2 billion euros ($1.64 billion)
related to costs for litigation and revamping.

R.B.S. said it would take a £1.9 billion ($3.1 billion) charge for potential
claims related to mortgage-backed securities and other securities litigation in
the United States.

It is among the banks being investigated by the Justice Department over mortgage
sales and is the subject of a lawsuit by the Federal Housing Finance Agency over
mortgages sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. JPMorgan Chase in November agreed
to a $13 billion settlement with authorities over its role in the mortgage
crisis, a deal seen as a possible template for others.

Additionally, the bank also said it would take a £465 million ($766 million)
provision to cover claims related to improperly sold payment protection
insurance, a contentious insurance product that has cost British banks billions
of dollars in claims.

The bank also will set aside another £500 million to cover claims related to
so-called interest rate hedging products sold to small businesses. The bank had
previously reserved £1.25 billion to cover claims related to those interest-rate
products.

Last year, the bank said that it planned to create an internal ''bad bank,''
known as R.B.S. Capital Resolution, to manage about £38 billion in troubled
assets, including real estate loans made at the height of the housing bubble for
properties now worth a fraction of the value.

The bank reiterated that it expected to report impairments and asset-valuation
adjustments associated with that strategy in the range of £4 billion to £4.5
billion in the fourth quarter. It will report its results on Feb. 27.

''R.B.S. is still paying a heavy price for past misconduct. So too are its
customers and taxpayers,'' said Andrew Tyrie, chairman of the House of Commons'
Treasury Committee.

Mr. McEwan has said he wants to change the culture of R.B.S., which received £45
billion from the British government during the financial crisis five years ago,
and repay the government as quickly as possible. But he has had to navigate a
series of bad news and poor luck as he tries to turn around the bank.

The Financial Conduct Authority, a British financial regulator, is reviewing the
bank's lending practices after two reports last year criticized its treatment of
small and medium-size business clients, including claims the bank pushed some
business clients into serious financial difficulties.

Other misfortune has struck the bank, too. A computer malfunction in December
left customers unable to pay with their debit or credit cards on cyber Monday,
one of the busiest online shopping days of the year. Then, Nathan Bostock, the
bank's chief financial officer, resigned after less than three months on the job
to join Banco Santander's British unit.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/01/27/r-b-s-to-take-nearly-5-billion-charge-rel
ated-to-litigation-claims/

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

Check-In by Smartphone

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 246 words



HIGHLIGHT: Aloft hotels will offer keyless check-ins for guests using
smartphones at two locations before expanding the program in 2015.


Aiming for efficiency, two Aloft hotels will begin offering keyless check-ins,
allowing smartphone-equipped guests to bypass the front desk and proceed
directly to their rooms, where doors will open when activated via Bluetooth
technology and the phone is held in front of the lock.

Aloft hotels in New York's Harlem neighborhood and in Cupertino, Calif., will
use the technology in the next three months, with a planned roll-out to all
Aloft and W hotels, two Starwood Hotels & Resorts brands that target younger,
tech-savvy travelers, in 2015.

Starwood has been testing keyless check-in at its Aloft brand since 2010 when it
issued radio-activated key cards to Starwood Preferred Guest members who could
use them, once received via mail, to skip the front desk.

The new iteration employs a mobile phone app - for iPhone and Android - making
the system more flexible.

It remains to be seen whether travelers will trust the virtual system, but for
frequent business travelers who have previously made their room requests known,
bypassing person-to-person check-in may be a time saver.

"I don't think it's as much for the first timer as the repeater, unless you're
an antisocial animal," said Michael Terry, an instructor at Rosen College of
Hospitality Management at the University of Central Florida.


     ·    A Little Help With the Luggage
     ·    An Early Start for Cyber Deals
     ·    W Hotels Will Promote Human Rights Campaign
     ·    Rapture for Valentine's: Blondie in Miami Beach
     ·    A Musical and House of Scandal


LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

Grammys Spur Streaming; Katy Perry Single Hits No. 1

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 487 words



HIGHLIGHT: Daft Punk and Paul McCartney saw gains in music streaming after the
awards show; Katy Perry&#8217;s song &#8220;Dark Horse&#8221; topped the singles
chart.


Lorde may have been the Grammy Awards' most talked-about artist on Sunday night
- more of the 15.2 million Grammy tweets were about her than any other act,
Twitter reported - but when it came to streaming music, Daft Punk appears to
have gotten the biggest early lift.

On Spotify, Daft Punk's streams increased by 205 percent in the United States
from Sunday to Monday, while Paul McCartney's streams rose 126 percent, Spotify
said. The rapper Kendrick Lamar, who lost in seven categories but became central
to a post-Grammys debate about race - and was in a widely commented-upon
performance - saw a 99 percent increase, and Taylor Swift, who also performed
but did not win, rose 67 percent.

The music industry's sales accounting week ended on Sunday, so the full impact
of the awards on record sales will not be clear until next week. But in this
early window, at least, the Grammys' effect was minor.

The soundtrack to the Disney film "Frozen" returned to No. 1 with 93,000 sales,
while an annual compilation of songs by Grammy nominees opened at No. 2 with
59,000, according to Nielsen SoundScan. Beyoncé, who opened the show with Jay Z,
rose one spot to No. 3, even though sales of her self-titled album actually
decreased by 22 percent, to 48,000.

"Is There Anybody Out There?" (Epic), the debut by the pop duo A Great Big
World, opened at No. 4 with 48,000 copies sold. And Lorde, who performed on the
Grammys and won song of the year for her single "Royals," rose two spots to No.
5 on the album chart with 37,000 sales of "Pure Heroine" (Lava/Republic), up 19
percent from the week before.

Katy Perry's song "Dark Horse," which she gave a witchy performance of at the
Grammys, rose to No. 1 on Billboard's singles chart, her ninth hit to reach that
peak. The song sold 294,000 copies and had 5.6 million streams online.

In the days before the awards, various social-media sites and music outlets made
Grammys predictions based on user data from their platforms. But of course the
Grammys are chosen by the sometimes whimsical members of the National Academy of
Recording Arts and Sciences, so many of these predictions were incorrect.

In the album of the year category, for example, Spotify and Shazam favored "The
Heist" by Macklemore & Ryan Lewis, and Facebook data indicated buzz for Kendrick
Lamar's "good kid, m.A.A.d city," but the prize went to Daft Punk's "Random
Access Memories." For record of the year, Spotify chose "Radioactive" by Imagine
Dragons; Shazam liked "Robin Thicke's "Blurred Lines"; and Facebook favored
Lorde's "Royals." But Daft Punk won for "Get Lucky."

One prize that all the online predictors got right was best new artist, which
went to Macklemore & Ryan Lewis.


     ·    Grammys Popcast: Old Rockers, Young Goths and Public Apologies
     ·    Grammys Will Honor Music Teachers
     ·    Grammy Awards to Be Held on Feb. 10
     ·    Judge Dismisses Suit Over Cuts in Grammy Awards
     ·    Cyber Furor Over Chris Brown's Appearance at Grammys


LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 30, 2014 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Limits Expert Testimony on Terrorism in Bomb Case

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 549 words


Saying he wanted to avoid turning the trial into a ''referendum on terrorism,''
a state judge handling the case of a Manhattan man accused of planning pipe
bombings said on Wednesday he sees no need for an expert on Islamic terrorism to
testify at the defendant's coming trial.

The judge, Justice Thomas Farber, said at a pretrial conference in Manhattan
Supreme Court that he hoped to keep the jury focused on the state's evidence
that the man, Jose Pimentel, had constructed bombs and intended to set them off,
rather than on testimony about organizations and websites linked to Al Qaeda.

General testimony along those lines could cloud the judgment of jurors in New
York City, where memories of the Sept. 11 attacks are still keenly felt, he
said.

''I don't want the jury's attention diverted,'' Justice Farber said.

Mr. Pimentel is scheduled to go to trial on Feb. 24 on terrorism charges, among
them weapons possession and conspiracy. He faces life in prison. He was arrested
in November 2011 after a lengthy investigation involving an undercover police
officer, two confidential informants and hundreds of hours of recorded
conversations.

Prosecutors say Mr. Pimentel, a Dominican native who converted to Islam, began
using the name Muhammad Yusuf and maintained a website encouraging jihad against
the United States. He was inspired, prosecutors say, to take action after Anwar
al-Awlaki, a radical Muslim cleric, was killed in September 2011 by a drone in
Yemen.

An indictment charges Mr. Pimentel with building one pipe bomb in an informant's
apartment and beginning to build two others, using $100 in supplies from local
hardware stores and supermarkets, including match heads, Christmas lights and a
converted clock.

Mr. Pimentel's lawyers, Susan J. Walsh and Lori Cohen, have said they intend to
argue their client was entrapped by the police. They describe him as a
down-on-his-luck young man who was easily enticed by the informant to build
bombs after being plied for months with free food and marijuana.

Mr. Pimentel's trial is unusual because the federal authorities typically handle
terrorism prosecutions. But the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which had
monitored Mr. Pimentel, decided not to pursue charges against him, and the
Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., has taken on the task.

Though Mr. Pimentel was allegedly inspired by Al Qaeda propaganda, the
authorities have never accused him of belonging to a larger conspiracy. Former
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg even described him as a ''lone wolf'' when he was
arrested.

Deborah Hickey, an assistant district attorney, said an expert on terrorism
would be needed to guide jurors through a maze of jihadist websites and
organizations that Mr. Pimentel interacted with online. ''There is an arcane
world in the cyber aspect of this case,'' she said, adding: ''Online activity is
a big part of our case.''

Justice Farber said he might allow a terrorism expert to testify in a limited
way about definitions of words and groups, but he thought Mr. Pimentel's online
postings would be self-explanatory. ''I don't think the jury needs to be told
what Osama bin Laden is at this point,'' he said.

The judge added state law did not require prosecutors to prove Mr. Pimentel was
linked to a particular group to win a conviction.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/01/30/nyregion/judge-limits-expert-testimony-on-terr
orism-in-manhattan-bomb-case.html

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 31, 2014 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

N.S.A. Choice Is Navy Expert on Cyberwar

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and THOM SHANKER; David E. Sanger reported from
Washington, and Thom Shanker from Warsaw.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1211 words


WASHINGTON -- In nominating Vice Adm. Michael S. Rogers as the new director of
the National Security Agency on Thursday, President Obama chose a recognized
expert in the new art of designing cyberweapons, but someone with no public
track record in addressing the kinds of privacy concerns that have put the
agency under a harsh spotlight.

Mr. Obama's decision to pick a military officer, rather than a civilian versed
in civil liberties issues, was made weeks ago, when he rejected his own advisory
panel's recommendation that the N.S.A. and the United States Cyber Command have
separate leaders. By law the command, the Pentagon's four-year-old cyberwarfare
organization, must be headed by a military officer.

The result is that Admiral Rogers, now the head of Fleet Cyber Command, the
Navy's fast-growing cyberunit, will find himself in the public cross hairs in a
way he has never been during a 33-year military career. Starting with his
confirmation hearings, expected to begin as soon as next month, the admiral will
be pressed on how he would carry out a series of changes that Mr. Obama
announced two weeks ago.

But many of the biggest issues, including who will hold the vast database of
phone call information and online activity of ordinary Americans that the N.S.A.
searches for potential terrorists or nuclear proliferators, remain undecided.
And Mr. Obama has deferred decisions on recommendations, also from advisers,
that the N.S.A. stop its efforts to weaken commercial encryption and limit its
activities to exploiting weaknesses in commonly available software to design
cyberweapons.

''Mike's now flying right into the hornet's nest of the stuff the president
didn't decide,'' said one senior adviser to the president. ''And it's all going
to play out in public.''

It already has: The N.S.A.'s programs have been flayed by civil libertarians,
sharply criticized by Silicon Valley companies that say their business is being
undercut and denounced by American allies that have been routinely spied on.

As it made its widely expected nomination of Admiral Rogers, the administration
announced its choice for deputy director of the agency: Rick Ledgett, the N.S.A.
official who has been heading the task force assessing the damage done by the
revelations of Edward J. Snowden, the former agency contractor. It will clearly
be Mr. Ledgett's job to put in place a series of internal changes designed to
prevent a repeat of what officials have called the biggest leak of secret data
in American history and to deal with its continuing effects.

Mr. Ledgett generated headlines weeks ago when, in an interview on the CBS News
program ''60 Minutes,'' he said ''it's worth having a conversation'' about
giving Mr. Snowden amnesty from prosecution in return for a full accounting of
what he took from the N.S.A.'s Hawaii office, and where the remaining,
unpublished, data is.

The White House immediately rejected the idea of an amnesty, but Attorney
General Eric H. Holder Jr. said recently that he would be open to talking about
some kind of deal for Mr. Snowden if he returned from Russia.

If confirmed, Admiral Rogers will succeed Gen. Keith B. Alexander, who has
served as N.S.A. director for nearly nine years and was the first to direct both
the civilian spy agency and the Cyber Command. He announced last year that he
would retire in March. Since then Admiral Rogers has been considered the most
likely successor, because of his experience in code-breaking -- the reason the
N.S.A. was created by President Harry S. Truman six decades ago -- and his
understanding of the design of America's new arsenal of cyberweapons.

Mr. Obama interviewed the admiral for the job last week, though the president
left it to Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, traveling in Poland on Thursday, to
announce the appointment. Mr. Hagel pointed to the challenges the new director
will face in a statement, saying, ''Vice Admiral Rogers would bring
extraordinary and unique qualifications to this position as the agency continues
its vital mission and implements President Obama's reforms.''

He added, ''I am also confident that Admiral Rogers has the wisdom to help
balance the demands of security, privacy and liberty in our digital age.''

A statement issued minutes later by the director of national intelligence, James
R. Clapper Jr., made no reference to proposed policy changes at the N.S.A. or
the need to conduct the kind of balancing Mr. Hagel referred to -- a reflection,
perhaps, of the arguments Mr. Clapper has made internally that many of the
proposals undercut the N.S.A.'s ability to protect the country.

Admiral Rogers's appointment would clearly be welcomed in the military
intelligence community, where he is regarded as a trusted insider. He began his
career not in intelligence or electronics, but in traditional surface warfare.
He was commissioned via the Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps after
graduating from Auburn in 1981, and worked in combat naval gunfire support,
serving in operations off Grenada, Beirut and El Salvador.

But in 1986, after five years in the service, he made a leap that prepared him
for the post he is now likely to take up: He began specializing in cryptology,
and trained in both electronic and information warfare. A number of assignments
to various warships and carrier strike groups followed, taking him to United
States and NATO missions in the Balkans and in Afghanistan.

Eleven years ago, as the United States was invading Iraq, he joined the
military's prestigious Joint Staff, which works for the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
He specialized in computer network attacks -- what today is called cyberwar --
and subsequently served in a series of senior staff positions that put him in
the midst of the issues facing the Joint Chiefs.

In 2007, he moved to become director of intelligence for the military's Pacific
Command, where China and its tremendous cybersurveillance abilities are a
priority. Two years later he became director of intelligence for the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, and then was named commander of the Fleet Cyber Command, with
responsibility for all of the Navy's cyberwarfare efforts.

''I know of no other naval officer as deft as he in synthesizing seemingly
disparate bits of information into a cohesive whole,'' said a senior military
officer, who would not speak on the record about a pending nomination. ''He
connects dots. Some people see the details and can describe them for you. Rogers
sees the details and can tell you a story.''

The White House would not specifically say what part of Admiral Rogers's
background appealed to Mr. Obama, but his experience in cyberwarfare was
undoubtedly a major element, according to people who have dealt with both the
president and his nominee. From his first days in office, Mr. Obama was secretly
immersed in America's biggest offensive cyberattack mission, a program named
Olympic Games that was aimed at Iran's nuclear infrastructure.

It is unclear if Admiral Rogers was involved in that operation. But if he is
confirmed, the country's growing arsenal of cyberweapons will be under his
command. He will also inherit dozens of new cyberteams, based on the military's
Special Forces, created by General Alexander to provide cybersecurity for the
military and launch cyberattacks.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/01/31/world/vice-admiral-to-be-named-nsa-director.ht
ml

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Adm. Rogers (A8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                        (The New York Times News Minute)

                            January 31, 2014 Friday

Times Minute | The N.S.A.'s New Chief

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 59 words



HIGHLIGHT: Background on Michael Rogers, the new National Security Agency
director. Also on the Minute, a serious water shortage in Iran, and GoPro turns
itself into a media company.


 In the Video


     ·    Obama Picks a Cyber Expert to Lead N.S.A.
     ·    Its Great Lake Shriveled, Iran Confronts Crisis of Water Supply
     ·    GoPro, Known for Daredevil Videos, Works on Its Brand



     ·    Times Minute | New Surveillance Report
     ·    Times Minute | Syria Peace Talks
     ·    Times Minute | Golden Globes Results
     ·    Times Minute | Legal Victory for N.S.A.
     ·    Times Minute | A Defeat for the N.S.A.


LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 8, 2014 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bank and Brokerage Accounts Are Prey to Hackers, Too

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1357 words


Data breaches at Target and Neiman Marcus were certainly scary. Personal
information from tens of millions of people fell into the hands of
cybercriminals.

But an equally threatening and perhaps more personal attack is a hacker getting
into your email and then using it to take money from your bank and brokerage
accounts.

It is a problem that is increasing at all wealth levels, from individuals with
small investment accounts to family offices that serve the wealthiest clients.
Naureen Hassan, senior vice president of client experience at Charles Schwab,
which is the largest custodian of independent advisers in the country, said the
firm had seen a fivefold increase in email-related fraud over the last two
years.

''The biggest type of fraud we see is the fraudster takes over the person's
email, and emails the adviser asking for urgent money,'' Ms. Hassan said. ''The
other problem is related to clients storing signed pieces of paper in their
email, which allows fraudsters to forge their signature.''

One of the better-known cases involved a client of GW & Wade, a Focus Financial
Partners firm in Wellesley, Mass., that manages about $4 billion. The firm,
which settled in October with the Securities and Exchange Commission, sent
$290,000 of a client's money in three separate wires to a foreign bank, in
response to a hacker sending emails from the client's account requesting the
transfers.

The S.E.C. accused GW & Wade of not having adequate safeguards to prevent the
thefts and fined it $250,000 for executing the transfers. In its censure of the
firm, the agency required it to take remedial steps to increase data security.

''When alerted to the situation, we took immediate action and ensured our client
was never at financial risk,'' Neil Goldberg, a principal of the firm, said in a
statement. ''Since then, we have put into place both new systems and procedures
to prevent any similar occurrence.''

While GW & Wade ended up being penalized financially and took a reputational
hit, its mistake served as a warning to other independent advisers eager to
respond to client requests.

A client of a Boston adviser said that he and his wife were traveling in Asia in
the fall when their account was hacked and emails were sent to everyone at the
adviser's firm who had ever emailed him, asking for a wire transfer.

He said the adviser tried to contact him, unsuccessfully, and then reached out
to his son to let him know what was happening.

''They read my emails, and they mimicked my tone for requests for money,'' said
the man, a retired financial services executive who requested anonymity. ''The
whole system appeared to be more sophisticated than these notes from Nigeria.''

The Nigerian prince email swindle, in which a supposed royal offers riches in
exchange for a bank account number, is to today's phishing scams what a Brother
word processor from the 1980s is to a MacBook.

A security executive at a trust company told of a hacker who got creative in
trying to fool the firm. The executive, who requested anonymity, said the firm
received an email from a client's account asking that $137,000 be wired to Italy
to buy some art. He said this client was part of a large family that traveled
frequently, so the request was not odd on its face. But he said the family had
put a procedure in place in which no wires went out without a call being made to
the person requesting the money.

The executive said clients can be frustrated by this level of bureaucracy, until
someone they know gets hacked. ''Once it's happened to one of their family
members,'' he said, ''it's amazing how they're much more accommodating.''

This is where the solution to a sophisticated swindle can sometimes be the
simple action most people would take if a stranger knocked on their door at
night: They would not answer it.

''I called my wealth manager and said, 'If I emailed you to wire $25,000 to a
third party or someone with the same last name as me, what do you do?' '' said
Ken Springer, a former F.B.I. agent who is now president of Corporate
Resolutions, an investigations firm. ''He said they would want to get a verbal
confirmation, and they'll document what phone number I used. Most reputable
firms require that.''

It wouldn't hurt to ask the same question of your wealth manager. Where some
advisers slip up, though, is in thinking they have received several levels of
verification when they have not.

''An email with an attached, signed letter is not enough because it's all the
same communication,'' said Jeffrey R. Bedser, founder and chief executive of
iThreat Cyber Group. ''That's not two forms, that's one communication. There
should always be a secondary verification.''

Beyond employing offline common sense, individuals need to be vigilant about how
they use technology and the systems their advisers have to prevent their
accounts from being hacked, or, if they are hacked, to keep their money from
being transferred.

A common area where security breaches occur is an unsecured public wireless
network, say in a coffee shop or park. People who commit fraud set up fake hot
spots that will still give you access to the Internet but will capture
everything you do on the swindler's computer.

Another mistake is using your email address as your login for any banking or
investment account. ''You're giving hackers half the battle,'' said Bill Wyman,
chief executive of Summitas, a firm that builds encrypted communications portals
for financial services companies.

Yet while technology can secure data both on computers and in transit, Mr. Wyman
said, it is limited by what clients will tolerate. ''It's balancing ease of use
with security,'' he said. ''Some clients will say 'I don't care,' and have
liberal agreements. Some are very strict and have no leeway.''

Ms. Hassan said that Schwab was completely revamping how its advisers wired
money for clients. The system currently asks them if they talked to their
clients before allowing a wire transfer to go through.

The new policy will require clients to confirm any wire transfers from their
accounts. If Schwab does not recognize a client's computer or if it has an
unusual Internet Protocol address, she said, the new system calls the client
with a code to complete the transaction.

''We thought there would be a barrier to this, but advisers are looking for
help,'' Ms. Hassan said.

While the hacking of Target and Neiman Marcus data has drawn a lot of attention
to the issue, advisers say a money management firm without enough checks and
balances is a more common risk for wealthy people.

Todd Kesterson, director of family office services at the accounting firm
Rothstein Kass and former chief financial officer for a family office, pointed
to the case of Paul Fireman, the founder of Reebok, whose money manager stole
$25 million from him -- even though he had paid the manager a high-six-figure
salary, plus bonuses, for over 20 years.

''If it's a couple of employees who are doing all the movement of family
money,'' Mr. Kesterson said, ''you need to have reviews done to tighten up
internal controls.''

He said that at his firm, no fewer than four people have to see every invoice
before it is paid. And if a request comes in to transfer money to a new vendor
or account, the scrutiny is even greater.

The risk of an inside job is not confined to the wealthiest. Mr. Springer of
Corporate Resolutions said he was recently called by a small broker-dealer that
suspected one of its employees had been moving money out of an account. He had
-- by wiring $25,000 10 times in three months to a friend with the same last
name as a client. While the employee was caught and fired, Mr. Springer said the
firm chose to remain silent for fear of damaging its reputation.

That desire for anonymity may be understandable, but it is keeping people from
knowing more about how these networks are working.

For individuals, the best hope is due diligence before fraud can occur. ''At the
end of the day, it's about being proactive,'' Mr. Bedser of iThreat Cyber Group
said. ''Choose banking and financial partners that have a more secure process
that you're comfortable with. Do more monitoring yourself.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/02/08/your-money/keeping-swindlers-out-of-your-bank-
and-brokerage-accounts.html

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Naureen Hassan, a senior vice president at Charles Schwab, said
that Schwab was completely revamping how its advisers wire money for clients.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY
ROBERT NEUBECKER)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                            February 14, 2014 Friday

In the West, It's Not Just About the Snow

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 439 words



HIGHLIGHT: There are new wintertime activities at resorts and parks in Colorado,
Montana, and Wyoming.


Recent storms have dumped loads of fresh snow in the Western United States,
welcome news for the region's national parks and resorts, many of which have
been adding history, wildlife and ecology tours to their usual winter menus.

In Colorado, the Rocky Mountain Nature Association has added a "Wintertime
Wonders" bus tour to its many educational programs. Passengers will learn about
the history and ecology of Rocky Mountain National Park from a cozy seat aboard
a heated bus while sipping free hot beverages, as opposed to venturing out on
snowshoes or skis, as their usual excursions require.

The flexible nature of the tours allows guides to "throw in a little of
everything," Rachel Balduzzi, the association's field seminar director, said,
including the history of the park's formation and how the animals are adapting
to the winter environment. ($200 for up to four adults; $50 for each additional
adult; and $25 for children 12 and younger: rmna.org.)

Spring Creek Ranch, a resort in Jackson Hole, Wyo., has taken a more upscale
approach to its winter safaris this season, packaging two nights at the resort
with a snow coach tour through Yellowstone National Park, where passengers will
spend a night at Old Faithful Snow Lodge. Stephen Price, the resort's owner,
said in an email that a benefit is that there are virtually no other visitors in
the park, making for a more intimate experience. ($1,450 per person for double
occupancy; $1,988 for single; springcreekranch.com).

Single-day "Wildlife Escapes" are also available through Spring Creek. They
include a snow coach safari, a sleigh ride through the National Elk Refuge and
admission to the National Museum of Wildlife Art. ($195; $175 for children 12
and younger.)

In Montana, the Yellowstone Association Institute has been hosting a variety of
both private and public tours and seminars for many winters, the most exciting
of which might be snowshoeing the north range of the park in search of wolves to
observe. While the institute's Wolf Week in March offers even more opportunities
to learn about these animals, a new "Wildlife Weekend Escape," offered on
specific dates throughout the season, teaches visitors how to listen for and
observe all types of animals, and includes several viewing excursions into Lamar
Valley, where bull elk, bald eagles, bighorn sheep, bison and coyotes are also
known to roam. ($220, not including lodging or park passes:
yellowstoneassociation.org.)


     ·    An Early Start for Cyber Deals
     ·    On Wyoming Drives, an App Narrator
     ·    Finding Wildlife Safaris on This Continent
     ·    United Offers a Lift (Nonstop) to Jackson Hole
     ·    The Charms of Yellowstone in Winter


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Sinosphere)

                           February 20, 2014 Thursday

Chinese Censors Have Kept Their Hands Off 'House of Cards'

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 807 words



HIGHLIGHT: The absence of censorship for the Chinese broadcast of the series is
somewhat surprising, and it may indicate a more relaxed approach toward the
newer medium of online television show imports.


"Mao is dead. And so is his China."

So says Vice President Francis Underwood, played by Kevin Spacey, to Xander
Feng, the corrupt Chinese billionaire played by Terry Chen, in the newest season
of "House of Cards," the highly acclaimed Netflix political drama about the
machinations of a ruthlessly ambitious American politician and his wife.

It's not often one hears a line this politically provocative on a Chinese
state-regulated entertainment platform. But with more than 15 million total
views on Sohu, one of China's leading Internet portals, the latest episodes (and
this line) have been played many times over since the much-anticipated release
of the show's second season last week.

The new season of "House of Cards" focuses on a host of issues that would
typically be regarded as sensitive by the Chinese authorities: cyber-espionage,
currency manipulation, tensions between China and Japan in the East China Sea,
and the extravagant and corrupt lifestyles enjoyed by the offspring of China's
revolutionary leaders.

Despite its heavy emphasis on China, however, the show did not undergo any
censorship by government authorities before its release, Charles Zhang, founder
and chief executive of Sohu, said in an interview on Tuesday. The episodes
available online on Sohu, said Mr. Zhang, are no different from the American
version aside from the addition of Chinese subtitles. Sohu has secured the
rights to broadcast the first three seasons of "House of Cards."

"This is only a fictional story, not something that actually happened," Mr.
Zhang said.

The absence of censorship for the Chinese broadcast of the series is somewhat
surprising in light of the rigid scrutiny normally applied to other foreign
cultural imports, such as films and books. Before "Skyfall," the latest James
Bond film starring Daniel Craig, opened in mainland China last year, censors
demanded the deletion of a scene in which Bond kills a Chinese security guard
and rejected an entire storyline about the film's villain, played by Javier
Bardem, being tortured by the Chinese authorities. Books, fiction and
nonfiction, have also similarly been subject to stringent censorship processes
before release in the Chinese market.

But so far, it appears that the censors have taken a relatively relaxed approach
to the newer medium of online television show imports. As of Tuesday, Mr. Zhang
said, Sohu had not received any censorship requests. Responsibility for
censorship of online video content is shared by the ruling Communist Party's
propaganda department, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, and
the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television.

"I heard that some government officials are actually quite fond of the show,"
said Mr. Zhang. "And that's why we haven't met with any trouble."

Indeed, Wang Qishan, China's top anticorruption czar, has enthusiastically
confirmed that he is a big fan of the show, according to foreign visitors who
have met with him.

Qin Qianqian, a publicist at Sohu Video, confirmed Mr. Zhang's statements,
adding that all of the television shows aired on Sohu are reviewed by an
internal censorship team whose task is to determine whether a show contains any
political risks.

But censorship of imported Internet television shows after they have been
released in China has occurred in the past. Last year, popular Chinese online
video portals removed an episode of the NBC crime drama series "The Blacklist,"
presumably because it prominently featured a Chinese assassin.

At a news conference on Tuesday, Mr. Zhang admitted that when Sohu secured the
license for "House of Cards," it had not known that the show would contain such
a strong China-related plot line, but he said that the company decided to go
ahead with the plan to release the show concurrently with Netflix in the United
States.

While Mr. Zhang declined to specify the financial terms of the deal by which
Sohu obtained the rights to broadcast the first three seasons of the show from
Sony, he did say that they had been purchased for a "midrange" sum, less than
what has been paid for many domestic television shows.

The series has been immensely popular in China, with more than 27 million views
on Sohu for the first season. As of Thursday, the second season of "House of
Cards" remained the most-watched American television series on Sohu this week,
ahead of "The Big Bang Theory" and the first season of "House of Cards." In
terms of overall views, however, the new season of "House of Cards" ranked only
13th, behind mostly mainland Chinese-produced television shows.


     ·    C.I.A. Honors Former Officers Held Captive for Decades in China
     ·    Bloomberg Code Keeps Articles From Chinese Eyes
     ·    Chinese Leader Gets a Cartoon Makeover
     ·    Pushing Back Against Government Surveillance
     ·    A Chilling Phone Call Adds to Hurdles of Publishing Xi Jinping Book


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 25, 2014 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Syria War Stirs New U.S. Debate on Cyberattacks

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; Eric Schmitt contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1695 words


WASHINGTON -- Not long after the uprising in Syria turned bloody, late in the
spring of 2011, the Pentagon and the National Security Agency developed a battle
plan that featured a sophisticated cyberattack on the Syrian military and
President Bashar al-Assad's command structure.

The Syrian military's ability to launch airstrikes was a particular target,
along with missile production facilities. ''It would essentially turn the lights
out for Assad,'' said one former official familiar with the planning.

For President Obama, who has been adamantly opposed to direct American
intervention in a worsening crisis in Syria, such methods would seem to be an
obvious, low-cost, low-casualty alternative. But after briefings on variants of
the plans, most of which are part of traditional strikes as well, he has so far
turned them down, according to officials familiar with the administration's
long-running internal debate.

Syria was not a place where he saw strategic value in American intervention, and
even covert attacks -- of the kind he ordered against Iran during the first two
years of his presidency -- involved a variety of risks.

The considerations that led Mr. Obama to hesitate about using the offensive
cyberweapons his administration has spent billions helping develop, in large
part with hopes that they can reduce the need for more-traditional military
attacks, reflect larger concerns about a new and untested tactic with the
potential to transform the nature of warfare. It is a transformation analogous
to what happened when the airplane was first used in combat in World War I, a
century ago.

The Obama administration has been engaged in a largely secret debate about
whether cyberarms should be used like ordinary weapons, whether they should be
rarely used covert tools or whether they ought to be reserved for
extraordinarily rare use against the most sophisticated, hard-to-reach targets.
And looming over the issue is the question of retaliation: whether such an
attack on Syria's air power, its electric grid or its leadership would prompt
Syrian, Iranian or Russian retaliation in the United States.

It is a question Mr. Obama has never spoken about publicly. Because he has put
the use of such weapons largely into the hands of the N.S.A., which operates
under the laws guiding covert action, there is little of the public discussion
that accompanied the arguments over nuclear weapons in the 1950s and '60s or the
kind of roiling argument over the use of drones, another classified program that
Mr. Obama has begun to discuss publicly only in the past 18 months.

But to many inside the administration, who insisted on anonymity when speaking
about discussions over one of America's most highly classified abilities, Syria
puts the issue back on the table. Mr. Obama's National Security Council met
Thursday to explore what one official called ''old and new options.''

Caitlin Hayden, the spokeswoman for the National Security Council, declined to
discuss ''the details of our interagency deliberations'' about Syria. ''But we
have been clear that there are a range of tools we have at our disposal to
protect our national security, including cyber,'' she said, noting that in 2012
''the president signed a classified presidential directive relating to
cyberoperations that establishes principles and processes so that cybertools are
integrated with the full array of national security tools.''

The directive, she said, ''enables us to be flexible, while also exercising
restraint in dealing with the threats we face. It continues to be our policy
that we shall undertake the least action necessary to mitigate threats.''

One of the central issues is whether such a strike on Syria would be seen as a
justified humanitarian intervention, less likely to cause civilian casualties
than airstrikes, or whether it would only embolden American adversaries who have
themselves been debating how to use the new weapons.

Jason Healey, the director of the Cyber Statecraft Initiative at the Atlantic
Council, argues that it is ''worth doing to show that cyberoperations are not
evil witchcraft but can be humanitarian.''

But others caution whether that would really be the perception.

''Here in the U.S. we tend to view a cyberattack as a de-escalation -- it's less
damaging than airstrikes,'' said Peter W. Singer, a Brookings Institution
scholar and co-author of the recently published book ''Cybersecurity and
Cyberwar: What Everyone Needs to Know.''

''But elsewhere in the world it may well be viewed as opening up a new realm of
warfare,'' he said.

There's little doubt that developing weapons for computer warfare is one of the
hottest arenas in defense spending. While the size of the Army and traditional
weapons systems are being cut in the Pentagon budget that was released on
Monday, cyberweapons and Special Forces are growth areas, though it is difficult
to tell precisely how much the government spends.

But Mr. Obama has made no secret of his concerns about using cyberweapons. He
narrowed Olympic Games, the program against the Iranian nuclear enrichment
program, to make sure that it did not cripple civilian facilities like
hospitals.

What he liked about the program was that it was covert and that, if successful,
it could help buy time to force the Iranians into negotiations. And that is
exactly what happened. But when a technological error in the summer of 2010
resulted in the broadcast of the Stuxnet computer worm around the world,
ultimately leading to the revelation of the program's origins with the N.S.A.
and Unit 8200 of Israel, Mr. Obama's hopes of keeping such programs at arm's
length were dashed.

Since then, there has been no clear evidence that the United States has used the
weapons in another major attack. It was considered during the NATO attacks on
Libya in the spring of 2011, but dismissed after Mr. Obama's advisers warned him
that there was no assurance they would work against Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's
antiquated, pre-Internet air defenses.

The head of the N.S.A., Gen. Keith B. Alexander, said in an interview last year
that such weapons had been used only a handful of times in his eight-year
tenure.

But Syria is a complicated case, raising different issues than Iran did. In
Syria, the humanitarian impulse to do something, without putting Americans at
risk or directly entering the civil war, is growing inside the administration.
Most of that discussion focuses on providing more training and arms for what are
seen as moderate rebel groups. But cyberweapons are in the conversation about
stepping up covert action.

Part of the argument is that Syria is a place where America could change its
image, using its most advanced technology for a humanitarian purpose.

''The United States has been caught using Stuxnet to conduct a covert
cybercampaign against Iran as well as trawling the Internet with the massive
Prism collection operation,'' Mr. Healey wrote recently, referring to the
N.S.A.'s data-mining program. ''The world is increasingly seeing U.S. cyberpower
as a force for evil in the world. A cyberoperation against Syria might help to
reverse this view.''

Yet that would require openly taking credit for an attack, something the United
States has never done. ''The question is whether the president would be willing
to give the kind of speech he gave about why it would be justified to shoot off
missiles in response to Assad's use of chemical weapons,'' a senior
administration official said. Mr. Obama pulled back from that strike at the last
moment.

Even if the United States wanted to act covertly, a cyberattack on Syria would
be hard to keep secret. Anything that grounded the air fleet, or turned out the
lights at key facilities in Damascus and at major military outposts, would be
instantly noticed -- and would not necessarily be accomplished quickly.

American military planners concluded after putting together options for Mr.
Obama over the past two and a half years that any meaningful attack on Syria's
facilities would have to be both long enough to make a difference and targeted
enough to keep from making an already suffering population even worse off.

For those and other reasons, there are doubters throughout the military and
intelligence establishment. ''It would be of limited utility, frankly,'' one
senior administration official said.

For instance, an attack could disrupt or shut down the navigational systems for
Syria's aircraft, including the Russian-designed Mi-8 and Mi-17 helicopters that
are carrying out many of the so-called barrel-bomb attacks against civilians in
Homs and Aleppo.

But Syrian commanders would probably just shift to other weapons in their
arsenal, like an array of rockets and missiles, including longer-range Scud
missiles, that Mr. Assad's forces have already employed with deadly effect.

Syria is no stranger to these attacks, either on the receiving or the giving
end. A September 2007 strike by Israel that destroyed a nuclear reactor being
built in the Syrian desert was accompanied by an ingenious cyberattack that
blinded Syria's air defenses. When the Syrian military awoke the next morning,
the reactor being built with North Korean help was a smoking hole in the ground,
as were some associated facilities.

On the offensive end, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, which follows these
issues, assembled evidence in a report published late last year that the Syrians
had used a ''spear phishing'' ploy, which gets the target to click on a link in
an email, in this case videos of war atrocities, to identify people who are
aiding the rebel groups and get inside their computer systems.

And the Syrian Electronic Army, which American intelligence officials suspect is
actually Iranian, has conducted strikes against targets in the United States
over the past year, including the website of The New York Times. Mostly these
have been denial-of-service attacks, annoying and disruptive, but not truly
sophisticated.

The chances that Syria could manage a significant response are low, American
officials and outside experts said. But the precedent could embolden the
Russians and the Iranians into taking a greater part in a new and escalating
form of warfare.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/02/25/world/middleeast/obama-worried-about-effects-o
f-waging-cyberwar-in-syria.html

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 26, 2014 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

With Syria, Diplomacy Needs Force

BYLINE: By MICHAEL IGNATIEFF.

Michael Ignatieff is a professor of practice at the Harvard Kennedy School.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 809 words


CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- THE conventional wisdom about Syria is that nothing can be
done. It is said that military action would be either perverse -- bringing the
jihadists in the opposition to power -- or futile, failing to tip the balance
against the government of President Bashar al-Assad. Using force, it is argued,
would also jeopardize other strategic objectives, like securing a lasting
nuclear deal with Syria's supporter Iran.

The trouble is that the conventional wisdom may be fatalism parading as realism
and resignation masquerading as prudence.

Any realist needs to face two facts. First, absent the credible application of
force against the Syrian regime, a negotiated transition leading to Mr. Assad's
departure is not going to happen. Despite the efforts of the United Nations
envoy Lakhdar Brahimi, the peace talks in Geneva between the Syrian government
and the opposition coalition have become a waste of time. The opposition forces
have been weakened by military defeats, and Mr. Assad's strategic advantage
gives him no incentive to concede anything.

Second, if Mr. Assad is allowed to prevail in this conflict, he will reimpose
his tyranny, and his forces will surely exterminate the remaining Sunni
insurgents who make up most of the opposition. Obliterating his enemies,
however, will not bring lasting peace. It will only further inflame hatreds.
Sooner or later blood will flow again.

Though nominally committed to Mr. Assad's overthrow, the United States, in doing
so little to bring it about, is becoming complicit in his survival. Is there a
realistic alternative?

Arming the rebels is not the answer. Providing weapons, as nations like Saudi
Arabia and Qatar have done with their fundamentalist proxies in Syria, appears
to have only increased civilian suffering without shifting the conflict in favor
of the insurgents.

Neither is the solution to create humanitarian corridors or safe zones to
protect civilians. Doing so will not succeed unless Western governments commit
ground forces, and that won't happen.

The only remaining option is to use force to deny Mr. Assad air superiority.
Planes, drones and cyber operations could prevent his forces from using barrel
bombs, cluster munitions and phosphorus weapons on civilian targets. An air
campaign should not be used to provide support for rebel groups whose goals the
West does not share. The aim would be to relieve the unrelenting pressure on the
civilian population and force Mr. Assad to return to Geneva to negotiate a
cease-fire.

Last year, the threat of force persuaded Mr. Assad to get rid of his chemical
weapons. Applying force now could deny him the chance to bomb his way to
victory. Mr. Assad can endure only if he crushes the insurgents. If he is denied
victory, his eventual departure into exile becomes a matter of time.

A cease-fire in Syria would likely unleash a chaotic struggle for power, but it
is better than slaughter. Syria is bound to look like Libya. International
peacekeepers will be needed to prevent revenge killing by the opposition and
former Assad allies alike.

The conventional wisdom holds that there are no ''good guys'' in the opposition,
no one we actually want to win. There weren't many good guys among the Balkan
politicians in the late 1990s, either, but by working with them as a special
presidential envoy, Richard C. Holbrooke did help bring a stop to the killing.
If force were applied to leverage diplomacy in Syria, as the United States did
in Bosnia, the dying could stop, refugees could return and negotiations could
eventually lead either to partition or to a constitutional transition.

Given the near certainty that Russia would veto any United Nations Security
Council authorization of air power, and that the United States Congress, if
asked to authorize force, would likely turn President Obama down, stopping the
war in Syria will stretch domestic and international legality. But if legality
is not stretched, the killing will go on indefinitely.

Every piece of this proposal -- using air power, forcing a cease-fire, putting
in international peacekeepers -- would be a test of presidential nerve and
resolve. Military action risks confrontation with the Russians and is unpopular
with a recession-weary public in the United States.

Above all, using force would make the president ''own'' the Syrian tragedy. So
far he has tried to pretend he doesn't have to. The fact is he owns it already.
American inaction has strengthened Russia, Hezbollah and Iran. It has turned
Syria into the next front in the war with Islamic extremism. And it has put in
jeopardy the stability of Jordan, Lebanon, Iraq and Turkey and risks leaving a
failed state next door to Israel.

If the president already owns the deadly consequences of inaction, it is only
prudent now to back diplomacy with force so that the consequences do not become
deadlier still.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/02/26/opinion/with-syria-diplomacy-needs-force.html

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      February 27, 2014 Thursday 00:00 EST

You've Got Meal (a Note, Too);
Movie Review

BYLINE: A. O. SCOTT

SECTION: MOVIES

LENGTH: 906 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Lunchbox," by Ritesh Batra, puts Old Hollywood style in a Mumbai
that has escaped the cyber world.


"The Lunchbox," Ritesh Batra's debut feature, is a romance that takes place in
Mumbai, but its style is more Hollywood than Bollywood, and Old Hollywood at
that. Though Mr. Batra and his cinematographer, Michael Simmonds, shot the film
on location in the bustling modern city, with a naturalism alien to both
American studio-era back-lot fantasies and present-day Indian musical
extravaganzas, "The Lunchbox" has the measured pace and Classical restraint of a
romance from the '30s or '40s. The comedy is more wry than uproarious, the
melodrama gently poignant rather than operatic, and the sentimentality just
sweet enough to be satisfying rather than bothersome.

The main characters -- Ila (Nimrat Kaur), a neglected housewife, and Mr.
Fernandes (Irrfan Khan), a widowed office worker nearing retirement --
communicate through handwritten letters and home-cooked meals. Their world has
been only lightly touched by the latest social and technological advances. Ila
launders her husband's shirts by hand and cooks lunches that are supposed to be
delivered to him, via bicycle, rail and the shoulders of white-jacketed couriers
(called dabbawallas), through Mumbai's elaborate and storied meal-delivery
system. Mr. Fernandes (whose first name, Saajan, is not uttered until very late
in the film) labors at a wooden desk in a crowded workplace that is anything but
paper free. For 35 years, without error or complaint, he has plowed through
endless stacks of folders, keeping accounts with a ruler and pencil.

That a warm heart lurks beneath his dour exterior is something the audience will
assume right away -- this is a comfortingly familiar kind of movie -- but Mr.
Khan (recently seen in "Life of Pi") does not make it too obvious, or show it
too soon. He relishes understatement, occasionally allowing the character's
suppressed emotion to peek out from behind his quiet, standoffish demeanor. Mr.
Fernandes is plagued, and eventually befriended, by Shaikh (Nawazuddin
Siddiqui), the eager young man who is his designated replacement. Mr. Siddiqui
has some of the needy, jumpy energy of a young Tony Curtis, making him a perfect
comic foil for Mr. Khan. Shaikh, an orphan who subsists on a few pieces of fruit
at lunch and an inexhaustible supply of positive thinking, represents the
striving of poorer Indians scrambling toward the middle class.

Ila and Mr. Fernandes are already there, having arrived through marriage,
inheritance or hard work, but neither has found much satisfaction. In the years
since the death of his wife, Mr. Fernandes has buried himself in routines and
wrapped himself in a cloak of misanthropy. The children in his neighborhood
hesitate before asking him to retrieve an errant cricket ball, and Shaikh
reports a rumor that he once kicked a cat into the street. "Actually it was a
blind man," he replies, and Shaikh is not entirely sure it's a joke.

Meanwhile, Ila suffers from her busy husband's indifference and begins to
suspect that he's having an affair. (The awakening of her suspicion is
wordlessly conveyed in one of many scenes in which Mr. Batra, with a visual
discipline that shows more than a touch of Ernst Lubitsch, uses everyday objects
and actions to convey emotion and meaning.) The lunches she prepares -- with the
advice of an unseen "Auntie" in the apartment upstairs -- are meant to win him
back. But because of a rare and unexplained glitch in the dabbawalla network,
the stackable stainless steel dishes of her food arrive on Mr. Fernandes's desk.
His brief notes of thanks (and also of criticism) begin a correspondence that
quickly evolves from the exchange of pleasantries to the sharing of confidences.

This is not a new conceit. If you have seen "You've Got Mail" (itself inspired
by Lubitsch's "The Shop Around the Corner," from 1940), you will find yourself
on familiar ground. But the idea of two lonely souls connecting in a vast,
modern metropolis, and remaining strangers even as their intimacy grows, has a
durable charm. As do Mr. Khan and Ms. Kaur, islands of melancholy calm
surrounded by silliness and noise. Their performances are not exactly subtle --
nothing in "The Lunchbox" is exactly subtle -- but they are graceful and
dignified in the manner of movie stars in an earlier, less aggressive age,
ennobling the ordinary lives they explore. And Mr. Batra makes their story
touching and credible, an urban fable of hope in the face of disappointment.

"The Lunchbox" is rated PG (Parental guidance suggested). Some mildly troubling
moments.

The Lunchbox

Opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles.

Written and directed by Ritesh Batra; director of photography, Michael Simmonds;
edited by John Lyons; music by Max Richter; production design by Shruti Gupte;
produced by Guneet Monga, Anurag Kashyap and Arun Rangachari; released by Sony
Pictures Classics. In Hindi, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 44
minutes.

WITH: Irrfan Khan (Saajan), Nimrat Kaur (Ila), Nawazuddin Siddiqui (Shaikh),
Denzil Smith (Mr. Shroff), Bharati Achrekar (Mrs. Deshpande), Nakul Vaid (Ila's
Husband), Yashvi Puneet Nagar (Yashvi) and Lillete Dubey (Ila's Mother).

PHOTO: The Lunchbox: Irrfan Khan, right, stars in this film opening on Friday in
New York and Los Angeles about a romance that blooms through lunches and
letters. (C1): Nimrat Kaur plays a neglected housewife in Mumbai. (PHOTOGRAPHS
BY MICHAEL SIMMONDS/SONY PICTURES CLASSICS) (C12)

Related Articles


     ·    An Indian Appetizer, Subtly Spiced


LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (India Ink)

                            February 28, 2014 Friday

You've Got Meal (a Note, Too)

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 171 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Lunchbox,&#8221; by Ritesh Batra, puts Old Hollywood style in a
Mumbai that has escaped the cyber world.


"'The Lunchbox,' Ritesh Batra's debut feature, is a romance that takes place in
Mumbai, but its style is more Hollywood than Bollywood, and Old Hollywood at
that," A.O. Scott of The New York Times wrote in his movie review.

"Though Mr. Batra and his cinematographer, Michael Simmonds, shot the film on
location in the bustling modern city, with a naturalism alien to both American
studio-era back-lot fantasies and present-day Indian musical extravaganzas, 'The
Lunchbox' has the measured pace and Classical restraint of a romance from the
'30s or '40s," he wrote.

"The main characters - Ila (Nimrat Kaur), a neglected housewife, and Mr.
Fernandes (Irrfan Khan), a widowed office worker nearing retirement -
communicate through handwritten letters and home-cooked meals," he wrote.

Read more of the review here.


     ·    Image of the Day: February 27
     ·    F.D.A. Commissioner Pledges More Coordination with Indian Regulators
     ·    Image of the Day: February 14
     ·    Auction of Telecom Spectrum Raises Nearly $10 Billion for Government
     ·    Image of the Day: February 10


LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 2, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bleak Houses

BYLINE: By MARILYN STASIO

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; CRIME; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 928 words


If anyone can make you root for the murderer, it's Denise Mina, whose defiantly
unsentimental novels are less concerned with personal guilt than with the social
evils that create criminals and the predators who nurture them. THE RED ROAD
(Little, Brown, $26), as fierce a story as any Mina has written, opens in 1997
with a shocking double murder in a seedy section of Glasgow. The murderer gives
up without a fight, and that, you'd think, should be that -- except for the fact
that the killer, Rose Wilson, is a 14-year-old prostitute (''looking 16, feeling
12'') and one of the men she stabbed to death was the pimp who had hired her out
to service eight men.

Recognizing that this intelligent but profoundly damaged girl is ''resigned to
desolation,'' Rose's defense lawyer, Julius McMillan, has designs on her. He
coaches her on how to behave in court (''No more swearing. . . . And try to
cry''), visits her in prison and eventually takes her into his household as
nanny to his three grandchildren. The exact nature of his master plan remains a
mystery until late in the narrative, but the sins of the past never stay buried,
and when the lawyer dies, his private business is laid bare to the scrutiny of
Detective Inspector Alex Morrow.

Morrow's circuitous investigation turns up a rogues' gallery of shady
characters, including the detective's own gangster brother. Yet these inquiries
don't reach Rose until an anomalous piece of evidence at a murder scene points
to a minor arms dealer whose life of crime began on the same night Rose turned
on her pimp. Like her, he was nobody's child and everybody's prey, just one
among many homegrown criminals who lost their innocence in lawless slums like
the Red Road flats.

That's the ethical impasse that confounds D.I. Morrow. Does she owe her
allegiance to the law, even if its consequences are cruel and unjust, or to the
conscience that tells her ''It was wrong'' to destroy families, punish children
and set in motion another cycle of violence and abuse for the next generation
growing up in places like this?

â--+

One might think the Shetland Islands are part of Scotland, but the native
islanders in Ann Cleeves's DEAD WATER (Thomas Dunne/Minotaur, $25.99) know
better. ''They're on the edge of the known universe up there,'' according to a
police detective who has been posted to this inhospitable region. Not that these
people care what any outsider thinks of their insular world on the shore of the
North Sea. ''Shetland didn't do pretty,'' according to a man who is about to die
here. ''It did wild and bleak and dramatic.'' As ''the powerhouse of the U.K.,''
it also does energy, and the area bristles with oil fields and gas installations
as well as new-energy wind farms and projects designed to harness the power of
the tides. So when an investigative reporter is murdered, everyone assumes he
was working on a story about the hostilities between the industrialists and the
environmentalists. Cleeves grew up in the English countryside and is married to
an ornithologist (her early birding mysteries are classics), so she's in her
element in this extraordinary landscape, with its old croft houses and modern
oil fields -- and water, water everywhere.

â--+

AimÃ©e Leduc, the stylish sleuth in Cara Black's blithe mysteries set in Paris,
is making an odd fashion statement in MURDER IN PIGALLE (Soho Crime, $27.95) --
ill-fitting frocks and low heels. Almost six months pregnant and showing it,
AimÃ©e should probably not be running around the tawdry bars and nightclubs of
Paris's red-light district. But someone has been stalking and raping local
schoolgirls, and 13-year-old Zazie, the spirited daughter of the proprietors of
a neighborhood cafe, has rashly followed a suspect to a bar in Pigalle. AimÃ©e
steps in, but before she can pry any useful information from the surly bartender
of the NeoCancan (''a notorious haunt of Gestapo and high-ranking Vichy'' back
in the day), a classmate of Zazie's dies after an attack, Zazie disappears and a
vigilante mob of parents has beaten a man half to death. Sexual violence is much
uglier than the cyber crimes Leduc's detective agency normally handles, and this
time Black seems a bit stingy with the historical lore that adds to the allure
of this series. But once the investigation takes a detour into the cavernous
sewers of the city, she proves she can still find her way home in the dark.

â--+

When it comes to visiting Cuba, it helps to be Canadian. Peggy Blair, a Canadian
lawyer unfettered by travel restrictions, made the most of a 2006 Christmas
holiday in Old Havana, which became the setting of ''The Beggar's Opera,'' a
well-crafted procedural with a detective who is haunted by the victims in his
homicide cases. Inspector Ricardo Ramirez of the Cuban National Revolutionary
Police returns in THE POISONED PAWN (Pintail, paper, $16), pursued by the
specter of an old woman dressed in white and with a knife in her heart, found in
''an unofficial temple for the worshipers of SanterÃ­a gods'' known as Blind
Alley. Even while he's pursued by this impatient ghost, Ramirez is a wonderful
guide -- hiding nothing but hoping we'll look past the poverty, hardship and
political corruption to see the beauty and humanity of his battered city. But
the narrative loses both focus and tone when Ramirez is sent to pick up a
pedophile priest in Canada, where magic realism doesn't cut as much ice. Nothing
against the Canadians, but maybe Blair could think about giving them their own
crime series. Or at least pay another visit to Havana. Maybe this time at
Easter.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/02/books/review/denise-minas-red-road-and-more.ht
ml

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 3, 2014 Monday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Report Calls for Better Backstops to Protect Power Grid From Cyberattacks

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 690 words


WASHINGTON -- Despite rising anxiety over the possibility of a cyberattack on
the power grid, the industry and government are not set up well to counter the
threat, according to a report produced by leading energy security experts.
Companies are reluctant to share information with one other, a critical step in
reducing vulnerability, because they are afraid of being accused of failing to
comply with cybersecurity rules, committing antitrust violations or giving away
proprietary information, the report found.

And the federal rules intended to protect the electric system from cyberattack
are inadequate because they do not give companies an incentive to continually
improve and adapt to a changing threat, according to the report, which was
released on Friday.

The report was produced by the Bipartisan Policy Center, a Washington nonprofit
group, and led by Michael V. Hayden, the former director of the C.I.A.; Curt
Hébert Jr., a former chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; and
Susan Tierney, a former assistant secretary of energy and former utility
regulator in Massachusetts. The experts also found that while the government had
focused on the high-voltage power grid, less work has been done on the
lower-voltage distribution system, which could cause problems that would
propagate up the chain.

Cyberwarfare is ''a domain that favors the attacker,'' Mr. Hayden said in a
panel discussion on Friday about the report. But he said the United States could
reduce its vulnerability and improve its ability to recover. He even quoted a
line spoken by John Wayne in the movie ''Sands of Iwo Jima'': ''Life is tough,
but it's tougher if you're stupid.''

Most hacking against utilities is done by people trying to steal financial data,
including that of customers, but experts fear an act of war, or what Mr. Hayden
called ''recreational espionage.''

Not even the public utility commissions are well set up for the new problems,
the report said. Regulated utilities can add security costs to the expenses for
which they bill their customers, if the regulators find the expenditures
''prudent,'' but ''many regulators lack the expertise to make these judgments,''
the report said. And many entities on the grid are unregulated, in a competitive
market, which may make it hard for them to recover their costs. But the report
painted cybersecurity in a way that parallels vaccination for disease; wider
participation helps both individuals and the community.

The report recommended establishing an organization like the one set up after
the Three Mile Island accident in 1979 by the nuclear industry, the Institute of
Nuclear Power Operations, to conduct peer-to-peer audits, and disseminate best
practices.

Outside experts who were not involved with the report endorsed some of its
findings. Samuel P. Liles, associate professor at Purdue, where he works in the
Cyber Forensics Laboratory, said that sharing best practice was ''a hit or a
miss,'' although threat information was shared.

At the Utilities Telecom Council, a trade association of electric and water
utilities, Nadya Bartol, a cybersecurity expert, said the report was correct in
asserting that utilities might not always come forward with helpful information.

''If utilities say, 'I have this vulnerability,' they might get fined if that's
a violation,'' she said. And they may hesitate to talk about their
vulnerabilities because, ''if I put it out in the public space, I will get
hacked more.''

The report also raised the issue that public utility commissioners, who decide
which utility expenses are ''prudent'' and thus eligible to be passed on to
customers, have trouble determining the value of such investments. At the
National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners, a nationwide
organization of state commission members, Miles Keogh, the co-author of a paper
on evaluating such investments, said commissioners should approach the problem
as a management audit, and not get into the details of security. The normal
forum for determining prudence, a rate case, ''is ''a great place to argue about
stuff, but not to take on terra incognita issues,'' he said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/03/business/energy-environment/report-calls-for-b
etter-backstops-to-protect-power-grid-from-cyberattacks.html

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 5, 2014 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

N.S.A. Director Says Leaks Hamper Defense Efforts

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 628 words


WASHINGTON -- Gen. Keith B. Alexander, the director of the National Security
Agency, said Tuesday that the leaks by the former agency contractor Edward J.
Snowden had slowed the effort to protect the country against cyberattacks on
Wall Street and other civilian targets.

General Alexander was speaking at a conference at Georgetown University in one
of his last public speeches before he leaves the agency this spring. He
predicted that the disclosure of information relating to government surveillance
programs would force Congress to act on changes to the rules governing the bulk
collection of telephone records before it tries again to pass legislation that
would mandate the way private companies protect against cyberintrusions, and
delineate what information they share about attacks with the government.

The departing N.S.A. director and commander of the United States Cyber Command,
which runs the cyberwarfare and defense operations for the Pentagon, described
as largely incomplete what he called one of the agency's biggest tasks: finding
a way to protect America's most vulnerable civilian targets.

''An attack on Wall Street or an exploit against Wall Street, N.S.A. and Cyber
Command would probably not see that,'' General Alexander said. ''We have no
capability there.''

Outside experts and the documents revealed so far by Mr. Snowden, who is still
in exile in Moscow, suggest that the N.S.A. would, in fact, most likely see some
attacks by monitoring the tens of thousands of ''implants'' it has placed in
foreign computers suspected of being involved in cyberstrikes on the United
States.

But it is unclear what could be done to prevent them; there is no agreement
inside the federal government yet about whether Cyber Command could launch a
pre-emptive attack. Under a presidential directive updated by President Obama in
2011, only the president himself can authorize the use of an American
cyberweapon, unless it is being used in an act of pure defense of national
targets.

''We have capabilities to defend the nation,'' General Alexander said, ''but we
don't have the ability to share that back and forth.''

Before the Snowden revelations, General Alexander often spoke of establishing
large data filtering systems that could detect malicious attacks in real time.
But that proposal went nowhere, and it would be almost impossible to convince
critics, who have become increasingly concerned about the way the government
carries out its surveillance programs, that the government was using those
filters only to weed out attacks, rather than to listen to, read or manipulate
incoming information.

Several efforts to pass cybersecurity legislation requiring private companies to
erect certain kinds of defenses have failed partly because of industry
objections to the high costs of such systems and to the potential for government
to delve into their private data.

General Alexander argued Tuesday for something more modest: laws that would
allow the companies to share data with the government about suspected incoming
attacks. Currently that is prohibited in many cases by privacy laws.

Any such legislation, however, would have to come after Congress considers
changes in the way the government gains access to telephone records. Mr. Obama
announced in January that he wanted to get the government out of the business of
holding on to the vast databases of all calls made across American telephone
networks, but it is not clear what alternative would be set up so that
government officials could gain access to that data with the approval of the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court.

Changes to that program, often called the ''business records'' or ''215''
program because of its section number in existing legislation, would require
congressional action.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/05/us/politics/spy-chief-says-leaks-hamper-protec
tion-against-cyberattacks.html

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. Keith B. Alexander, director of the National Security
Agency, speaking on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 6, 2014 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

France: Jail Sentence Over 'Cyber Jihad'

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 162 words


A French convert to Islam was convicted of using the Internet to disseminate
terrorist propaganda and promote participation in terrorist acts and was
sentenced by a Paris court to one year in prison and two more on probation late
Tuesday. The case is the first using a law passed in 2012 that makes ''cyber
jihad'' a crime and potentially has serious consequences for freedom of
expression in France. The law was passed in response to the attacks in Toulouse
by Mohammed Merah, who killed seven people including three children and
apparently was inspired in part by extremist Internet postings. The maximum
sentence in Tuesday's case could have been five years in prison, and the
relatively light term given to Romain Letellier, 27, suggested that both
prosecutors and judges were still considering how to apply the new law. The
prosecutor said that the trial was happening in a context where young people
become radicalized rapidly after reading material on the Internet.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/06/world/europe/jail-sentence-in-france-over-
cyber-jihad.html

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 9, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stop Glorifying Hackers

BYLINE: By DIANE McWHORTER.

The author of ''Carry Me Home: Birmingham, Alabama: The Climactic Battle of the
Civil Rights Revolution.''

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 969 words


I WAS at the Museum of Modern Art in New York not long ago, soaking in Edward
Hopper's retro downer mystique, when I got a call that opened up brave new
all-night-diners of doom and gloom.

The editor of thesmokinggun.com, a website that publishes embarrassing documents
with headlines like ''Man Jailed for Toilet Seat Attack on Disabled Kin,'' had
come into some documents of mine, including my Social Security number with birth
date, a photograph of me assailing a moth infestation in an elderly friend's
kitchen and nearly all my passwords.

The conduit of the purloined goods was Guccifer, a hacker made famous last year
for liberating George W. Bush's post-presidential self-portraits from his
sister's email. Colin Powell's Facebook page was also defaced, but plenty of
people with no state secrets got caught in his net (apparently he got to me
while hacking the email of my friend Sidney Blumenthal, the Clinton family
consigliere).

Yet in January, when Romanian authorities arrested Marcel Lazar Lehel, the
40-something citizen thought to be Guccifer, the world did not seem to share my
relief. Instead of being called out as the Grim Reaper of privacy, Mr. Lehel got
mostly attaboys. Guccifer is ''to hacking what the Beatles are to rock and
roll,'' wrote New York magazine. A commenter on Gawker suggested a legal defense
fund.

Given that private citizens as well as celebrities (Candace Bushnell, Tina
Brown) have been undressed by him, where is the alarm that anyone's online
dossier could be called for no particular reason -- unless you have total
control over not just your own cyber-presence, but that of your lawyer, your
financial adviser, your therapist, your children's teachers, your spouse,
paramour, bookie and bail bondsman?

Partly, of course, the seeming indifference is resignation -- the fragility of
our privacy is well established. But it also stems from pride, reflecting the
extent to which our ''devices'' have become stand-ins for our egos. Consider the
assumption in early media accounts that Guccifer was fooling only with
''geezer'' servers like EarthLink, Yahoo and AOL. If you were so gauche as to
use what one New York magazine writer called ''a second-tier e-mail account,''
then you basically had it coming.

This is wishful thinking. Although my (inactive) EarthLink account was hacked,
so was my primary address, Gmail.

More troubling, ''the system'' seemed to have worked. Within 24 hours I had
received anodyne alerts from Google and EarthLink and -- not suspecting anything
criminal -- reset both my passwords. I would not learn for nine months that
within my short, oblivious interval of defenselessness Guccifer had managed to
capture a passwords list I had Gmailed to myself at the office.

But unlike the unfortunate insurance executive whose divorce records Guccifer
released, at least I had conducted my own correspondence with the matrimonial
bar on an old EarthLink server, before we parked our business on Gmail's
platform indefinitely.

That said, I hold less antipathy for Guccifer than for the gatekeepers who give
us a false impression that our digital homes are protected and encourage us to
cram in ever more precious assets. But when the locks are picked with abandon,
there is no accountability.

EarthLink initially made a very pleasant security expert available to me. But
once I began bearing down on the company's duty to issue stronger hacking
warnings or conduct follow-ups to possible intrusions, the corporate veil of
boilerplate descended. Google simply directed me to a link suggesting that
password theft was the fault of consumers being gulled out of their account
information by phishing spammers. And even in the wake of its recent mass
hacking, Yahoo likewise continues to push that argument of user fallibility.

The advice I got from the nice EarthLink engineer, Rich Gardner, was
instructive: Keep your personal data on a thumb drive, in a safe. That new
normal explains why I wouldn't have dreamed of writing about Guccifer until
after his arrest was announced. Believe me, Mr. Guccifer -- and all your friends
-- far be it from me to provoke you into really strutting your stuff! But even
still I hesitated, given the risk, as Mr. Gardner put it, of ''painting a
target'' on my back. The realization that I was falling into totalitarian
thinking convinced me I had no choice. For in the vacuum of fearful silence,
crimes like Guccifer's begin to resemble principled dissent.

The cult of the hacker is the tech-age update of America's long romance with the
outlaw; hence an emerging narrative that casts Guccifer as sort of a Sundance
Kid to Edward Snowden's Butch Cassidy -- or, per New York magazine, the hacker's
''Graydon Carter, the host of a fabulous, scandalous party,'' to Mr. Snowden's
''geek crusader.''

Being mugged by Guccifer recalled the sense of revelation I had on a visit to
Tombstone, Ariz.: that a setting enshrined on grainy black-and-white film was in
reality stained with the blood of actual men. The shootout at Tombstone's O.K.
Corral was a mythic episode in a struggle now gone global, of rogues (those
aggrieved ranchers) raging against the state-backed elite, represented by Wyatt
Earp.

The United States surely marshaled its finest in pursuit of a bandit who pulled
off security breaches against two former presidents, former and sitting
secretaries of state, a senator and a variety of intelligence officials. Yet for
a year the world's most exhaustive electronic surveillance dragnet came up short
against a cyber-insurgent so brazen that he was allegedly hacking the head of
his own country's domestic intelligence -- while serving a suspended three-year
sentence for hacking.

For us civilians, with no choice but to wander into the digital crossfire, it
becomes increasingly hard to know who, if anyone, wears the white hat.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/09/opinion/sunday/stop-glorifying-hackers.html

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 9, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Suspicion Falls on Russia as 'Snake' Cyberattacks Target Ukraine's Government

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and STEVEN ERLANGER; David E. Sanger reported from
Washington, and Steven Erlanger from Kiev, Ukraine.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 714 words


WASHINGTON -- Since the first major protests in Kiev that triggered the current
crisis with Moscow, American intelligence agencies have been on high alert for
cyberattacks aimed at the new government in Ukraine. They were a bit late: the
attacks started long before President Viktor F. Yanukovych was forced from
office, and as might be expected, no one can quite pinpoint who is behind them,
although some suspicion is falling on Russia.

According to a report published by the British-based defense and security
company BAE Systems, dozens of computer networks in Ukraine have been infected
for years by a cyberespionage ''tool kit'' called Snake, which seems similar to
a system that several years ago plagued the Pentagon, where it attacked
classified systems.

The malware appeared many more times this year in Ukraine, as the protests in
Kiev picked up their pace. The protesters were angered by Mr. Yanukovych's
decision not to pursue closer trade and political ties with Europe, which has
been vying with Russia for influence in Ukraine.

Snake -- also known as Ouroboros, for the serpent in Greek mythology -- gives
attackers ''full remote access to the compromised system,'' according to the BAE
report released Friday. BAE cited circumstantial evidence that the attacks
originated in Russia, saying that the malware developers operate in the Moscow
time zone and that there is some Russian text in the code.

But American intelligence officials said that it was unclear if the use of the
malware was state-sponsored, and that Snake was just one of many types of
malware that Ukraine is battling every day.

Versions of Snake's predecessor have been around since 2005, but the highly
sophisticated one found in Ukraine appears to have been directed at government
agencies. The attacks were aimed mostly at siphoning data from local computers
to other servers, the report said. It identified 14 cases of Snake in Ukraine
since the start of 2014, compared to eight cases in the whole of 2013. In all
there have been 32 reported cases in Ukraine since 2010, out of 56 worldwide.

One mystery is whether Snake is now being turned to purposes that go beyond mere
espionage: manipulating or alerting computer networks in some way. Russian
hackers -- both those employed by the state and those working on their own --
are known for their abilities to design sophisticated ''implants'' that both
suck data out of a system and create a pathway for other malicious software to
be injected. Documents stolen from the National Security Agency by Edward J.
Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor now living in Moscow and interviews with
intelligence officials indicate the United States also has extensive capability
to do similar things.

''The usual Russian approach would be to design something that could both
conduct surveillance and aid in an attack,'' said one senior intelligence
official, describing how the National Security Agency and the Pentagon's Cyber
Command were on the lookout for the kind of computer attacks that were unleashed
on Estonia seven years ago. The precise origins of those attacks have never been
completely understood.

While some early reports about Snake compared it to Stuxnet, the American- and
Israeli-designed worm that attacked Iran's nuclear program, the inner workings
of Snake appear to be quite different. Stuxnet took over the computer
controllers that ran Iran's nuclear centrifuges, spinning those centrifuges out
of control. So far, there is no evidence that Snake can do that.

American officials have never confirmed they were part of the operation against
Iran, code-named ''Olympic Games.'' But what makes Snake particularly familiar
to American officials is that they saw a version of it, then called
''Agent.btz,'' in the Pentagon's own systems. The event was written in about
2010 by the deputy secretary of defense at the time, William J. Lynn, who raised
the alarm about the military's vulnerabilities to such attacks. In the four
years since, however, the malware has become more powerful, and the BAE report
described it as ''one of the most sophisticated and persistent threats we
track.''

Snake has also shown up in Lithuania, Britain and Georgia, among other places.
But the United States has only seen two cases so far, the BAE report indicates.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/09/world/europe/suspicion-falls-on-russia-as-snak
e-cyberattacks-target-ukraines-government.html

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 11, 2014 Tuesday
                        The International New York Times

Europe's Dismal Record on Gender

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg.

LENGTH: 441 words


The results of Europe's most comprehensive survey on violence against women are
shocking. The survey, released last Wednesday, reveals that more than one-third
of Europe's women say they have been subjected to physical or sexual violence
from the age of 15 on. About the same percentage say they suffered violence as
children, while 12 percent say they were sexually abused as children -- half by
men they knew. Women also reported widespread stalking, sexual harassment and
cyber-harassment via social media, email or text messages.

The saddest statistic may be this one: Only a relatively small percentage of the
women, 14 percent, reported the worst instances of abuse by a partner to the
police. And only 13 percent reported the worst instances of violence by a
nonpartner. In other words, much of the worst violence remains invisible and
goes unpunished.

The survey, conducted by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, is
the first of its kind. Questions were asked of 42,000 women across the union's
28 member states. Their answers reveal how intimately violence against women is
embedded in every aspect of family and social life.

Surprisingly, given their long history of gender equality, Scandinavian
countries reported the highest incidences of violence against women. Just over
half the women in Denmark reported physical or sexual abuse. The figure in
Finland was 47 percent; Sweden's was 46 percent. Of all E.U. states, Poland had
the lowest rate, with 19 percent of women reporting physical or sexual violence.
In both Britain and France, the number was 44 percent.

Europe has got to be able to do better than this. Though it prides itself on its
commitment to lofty human rights standards, Europe does no better than the
dismal world average when it comes to how women are treated. A study by the
World Health Organization last year indicated that more than one-third of women
worldwide are affected by physical or sexual violence. Violence against women is
not only a violation of basic human rights; at these levels, it represents a
public health emergency.

In response to the new survey, Malta immediately announced that it would ratify
the Council of Europe's convention on violence against women, making it only the
fourth E.U. nation to do so. Others should follow.

Women, especially young women, need to feel safe to report violence committed
against them. And law enforcement authorities, community service workers,
schools, businesses and victim support organizations must work together to get
the message out: Violence against women is never acceptable, and it is a crime
that will no longer go unreported or unpunished.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/11/opinion/europes-dismal-record-on-gender.html

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 11, 2014 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Daunting Tests Await Admiral Named N.S.A. Chief

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; Mark Mazzetti contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1228 words


WASHINGTON -- It is not hard to understand why veterans of the National Security
Agency argue that 2013 was the worst year since Harry S. Truman got the place
running 62 years ago.

It started with Edward J. Snowden's leaks of stolen N.S.A. documents and ended
with a holiday letter to families of agency employees declaring that despite
what everyone was hearing on television and reading in the papers, their
relatives were heroes, not violators of privacy rights.

In recent weeks it has gotten tougher. President Obama has moved from lukewarm
defenses of the agency's programs to embracing recommendations to take the bulk
collection of telephone call records out of its hands.

Google and Yahoo say they are equipping themselves with new technologies
designed to defeat N.S.A. interception, and the general counsel of Microsoft
blogged not long ago that ''government snooping potentially now constitutes an
'advanced persistent threat,' '' a phrase normally used to describe China's most
sophisticated hackers.

And to stop leakers, the agency plans to step up monitoring the calls, emails
and financial transactions of agency employees, a move the N.S.A.'s privacy
critics find particularly rich in irony.

On Monday, when Mr. Snowden spoke to the South by Southwest Interactive Festival
in Austin, Tex., from Moscow -- his voice and image shaky because they were
being passed through a series of computer servers to ensure his security -- he
taunted the agency about its ignorance of what is coming next. ''The U.S.
government still has no idea what documents I have because encryption works,''
he declared.

The man chosen by Mr. Obama to navigate this bureaucratic, political and public
relations disaster is Vice Adm. Michael S. Rogers, who on Tuesday will face
members of the Senate at his confirmation hearing, an event not likely to be
accompanied by the thunderous applause that greeted Mr. Snowden in Texas.
Friends of Admiral Rogers in the intelligence community, who have worked with
him in his current job running the Navy's Fleet Cyber Command, say they wonder
whether he has a sense of what he is wading into.

''Why would anyone in his right mind be director of N.S.A. right now?'' asked
John R. Schindler, a former N.S.A. officer who is now a professor at the Naval
War College. ''It's a massive political headache.''

Mr. Schindler, echoing intelligence officials who know Admiral Rogers, said he
is ''superbly qualified'' to guide the agency's cyber and surveillance programs.
But he added that ''no director in the agency's history has ever walked into
this big a challenge.''

''Rogers is taking over what they call in the Navy an 'unhappy ship,' '' he
said.

It is Admiral Rogers's particular bad luck that he is not appearing in front the
Senate Intelligence Committee, which has largely embraced the surveillance
programs it is supposed to oversee. Because he will also be the head of United
States Cyber Command, the Pentagon's cyberwarfare unit, he will be appearing
before the Armed Services Committee, whose members include some of the agency's
significant critics, from Democrats like Senator Mark Udall of Colorado, who has
described the agency's domestic surveillance as a violation of American
principles, to Republicans like Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who has taken the
opposite view, saying, ''The federal government has not been effective enough
monitoring and surveilling bad guys.''

The question resonating inside the N.S.A. these days is whether Admiral Rogers
is prepared to become the public face -- and public defender -- of such an
embattled agency, a job his predecessor, Gen. Keith B. Alexander, took on with
gusto. Just last week, General Alexander was at Georgetown University, defending
the agency's programs, arguing that the Snowden disclosures have weakened
American cyber defenses, and gently mocking how much oversight the agency
receives. ''We're reviewed by the general counsel and the inspector general'' of
the Departments of Defense, the director of national intelligence, the White
House, Congress and many others, he said, giving a taste of how many minders
Admiral Rogers will have to face.

Adding to the challenge is the fact that Admiral Rogers has always been an
insider. ''He's never had to deal with a surveillance program, much less defend
it,'' one of his friends and colleagues said. ''He's a crippy,'' shorthand for
cryptologist. ''He's never had to speak in public about these issues, much less
endure senators showing off for the cameras.''

Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, a former Army officer who serves on
the committee and knows Admiral Rogers, described what awaits the new director
as ''a complicated set of legislative issues, political issues and
constitutional issues.''

But in the end it may be the White House that poses his largest challenge. Mr.
Obama may have signed off on many of these programs during his first four years,
but officials at the N.S.A. and Cyber Command complain his embrace of the agency
has been tentative at best. Over the agency's objections, he accepted the
recommendation of his own advisory committee on surveillance that the N.S.A.
should not be able to hold on to bulk data from telephone calls, but still has
not received the ideas he asked for about what private-sector mechanism should
be set up to allow court-ordered searches, a system that General Alexander fears
could be clunky and slow.

There are other, less politicized but more complex battles Admiral Rogers is
about to wade into.

The telecommunications companies that, reluctantly or not, allowed the N.S.A. to
tap their cables and wander through their circuits are now far more hesitant,
fearing the backlash of being described as N.S.A. collaborators. Microsoft,
Google and others are now urging Mr. Obama to embrace two strong recommendations
from the advisory committee on surveillance.

One would direct the government to work to strengthen commercial encryption,
rather than work to weaken it. And another strongly discourages the government
from stockpiling an arsenal of cyber vulnerabilities -- the highly-sought ''zero
day'' flaws -- so that if it needs to attack a country with cyberweapons, it has
the ammunition in place. To America's high-tech companies, the problem with the
N.S.A. is that it never considered the economic cost of using those weapons,
opening up vulnerabilities that others can exploit, and undercutting
international confidence in American products. So they want the N.S.A. to swear
off the use of those tools.

Intelligence officials are horrified at the thought, calling it unilateral
disarmament. ''If you told the army not to stockpile artillery shells, what are
they likely to say back?'' asked on senior intelligence official.

Inside Cyber Command and the N.S.A., these are the most critical issues, on
which billions of dollars are being spent. It is a subject Mr. Obama never
mentioned during his January speech on surveillance, turning the hard decisions
on encryption and cyberweapons over to an internal study group, headed by
Michael Daniels.

Mr. Daniels will not talk about the panel's deliberations, White House officials
say. But one senior administration official said the White House was likely to
side with the intelligence agencies. ''Harry Truman created the N.S.A. to break
codes,'' he said. ''No one can figure out why it makes sense to make that
harder.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/11/world/admiral-set-to-face-confirmation-to-lead
-nsa.html

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vice Adm. Michael S. Rogers addressed students at the Center for
Information Dominance in Monterey, Calif., in 2012. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATE
GUIMONT/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (After Deadline)

                             March 11, 2014 Tuesday

Subject, Meet Verb

SECTION: TIMESTOPICS

LENGTH: 1535 words



HIGHLIGHT: Every job has its joyless tasks. It&#8217;s time again for one of
mine: pointing out that singular subjects should go with singular verbs, and
plural subjects with plural verbs, just as singular pronouns should be used to
refer to singular antecedents, and plural pronouns to plural antecedents.


Every job has its joyless tasks. It's time again for one of mine: pointing out
that singular subjects should go with singular verbs, and plural subjects with
plural verbs. A related bit of drudgery is reminding colleagues that singular
pronouns should be used to refer to singular antecedents, and plural pronouns to
plural antecedents.

We all know that; hence, the joyless aspect of this week's installment.

Here are some recent lapses, in rough order from more obvious to less.

The advertising code that banned such ads were written 50 years ago, long before
e-cigarettes came into widespread use.

"Was," of course, to agree with the singular "code." Were we momentarily
distracted by the plural "ads"?

Ms. Simmons compared the reluctant-seeming star with Miley Cyrus, whose risqué
dancing and skin-baring fashion is a marked contrast to Ms. Yelich-O'Connor's
severe-but-covered aesthetic.

A compound subject joined by "and" is plural. (A rare exception arises when a
compound expression is so tightly bound that it is treated as a single unit:
"Bacon and eggs is his favorite breakfast.")

But the crowd outside Parliament in Simferopol cheered on Thursday as a
protester with a bullhorn read out a statement released by Russian news agencies
in which Mr. Yanukovych declared himself Ukraine's only legitimate leader and
said that Russian-speaking regions in eastern and southern Ukraine, including
Crimea, would "not accept the anarchy and outright lawlessness" that has gripped
the country.

Another compound subject that would take a plural verb ("have gripped"). But in
this case, sequence-of-tense rules require the pluperfect: "that had gripped."

A blurring of campaign and county work pepper the documents.

The subject is the singular "blurring," so make the verb "peppers."

The developers hope to demolish the building, which includes the Garment Center
Synagogue on the ground floor, and erect a tower that could capitalize on the
surging hustle and bustle of Times Square, whose central location and popularity
with tourists has made it an attractive neighborhood for new hotels.

The sentence is so overstuffed that we apparently lost track of the syntax. The
subject of the relative clause is the compound (and thus plural) "location and
popularity."

As the government exults over the capture last weekend of one of the world's
most wanted drug kingpins - Joaquín Guzmán Loera, known as "El Chapo," or Shorty
- the rise of vigilante groups in lawless corners of western Mexico show the
pressing, and some analysts contend, deeper security challenges that remain.

Once again, a long and tangled sentence led us off track. The subject is the
singular "rise," not the plural "groups," so the verb should be "shows." (Also,
the first comma should come before "some," to set off the attribution "some
analysts contend"; it should not come before "and." Better still, simplify the
sentence.)

In this New Jersey enclave, each of the 2,000 students in the district's two
high schools, as well as their teachers, have laptops that cost $1 million in
total and are replaced every two years.

In this construction, "each" is a singular pronoun that should take a singular
verb - "each of the 2,000 students has a laptop." But since the sentence goes on
to discuss all the laptops, the simpler fix is to change to the plural
throughout: "all 2,000 students have laptops."

One in seven children in the United States - and almost 20 percent of all boys -
receives a diagnosis of A.D.H.D. by the time they turn 18, according to the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

This complicated sentence switches back and forth between singular and plural,
garbling the grammar. The initial expression "one in seven" is indeed singular
and should take a singular verb. But "20 percent of all boys" would be construed
as plural and would need a plural verb. And the plural "they" should not refer
to a singular antecedent. What's more, switching terms from "one in seven" to
"20 percent" is not very helpful. We should have started over.

An additional 18 million people, or about 6 percent of the population, is
believed to have gluten sensitivity, a less severe problem with the protein in
wheat, barley and rye and their relatives that gives elasticity to dough and
stability to the shape of baked goods.

A similar  problem in switching between different number expressions. The
subject is "18 million people," which needed a plural verb. "Six percent of the
population" is in apposition to the subject but is not itself the subject.

One of the families in the Bushwick apartments whose bathrooms and kitchens were
destroyed, whose case is being handled by Legal Services NYC and Bushwick
Housing and Legal Assistance, pays $675 a month in rent and says they could not
afford anything over $1,000.

A tricky case. We were fine with the singular throughout, until abruptly
switching to the plural "they," which has no proper antecedent. Recast.


 In a Word

This week's grab bag of grammar, style and other missteps, compiled with help
from colleagues and readers.

The tax adjustments are part of a broader strategy by cities to aid homeowners -
who continue to struggle financially since the home mortgage crisis.

We tend to overdo the dashes, and this one serves no purpose. Depending on the
nuance, we could have no punctuation or a comma after "homeowners." (No
punctuation would make the relative clause "restrictive," meaning it defines the
noun; that is, the cities are aiding specifically homeowners who continue to
struggle. A comma would make the clause "nonrestrictive," meaning it just
provides additional information; that is, the cities are giving aid to
homeowners in general, who as a group continue to struggle.)

Like so many other media dynasties - the Bancrofts, the Chandlers, et al. - the
passage of time has been accompanied by operational challenges and falling
profits that have tested family ties.

A dangler, since "the passage of time" is not "like so many other media
dynasties." Rephrase.

The Republican donors who have financed the party's vast outside-spending
machine are turning against the consultants and political strategists they once
lavished with hundreds of millions of dollars.

This is not how the verb "lavish" works. The direct object should be the thing
bestowed, not the recipient: "... on whom they once lavished hundreds of
millions of dollars."

This is one of those seismic changes that comes along in the world of customer
loyalty programs every few years and prompts a couple of basic questions ...

Recorded announcement: The verb in the relative clause should be plural to agree
with the subject "that," which is plural to agree with its antecedent "changes."

Jason Healey, the director of the Cyber Statecraft Initiative at the Atlantic
Council, argues that it is "worth doing to show that cyberoperations are not
evil witchcraft but can be humanitarian."

But others caution whether that would really be the perception.

"Caution," meaning "warn," doesn't work in this context. Perhaps we meant
"question" or "doubt."

Despite the drug still being illegal under federal law, the Obama administration
has said it will not interfere with the rollout of legal marijuana in the states
for several reasons, including whether the state is successful in keeping it out
of the hands of minors. ...

An even larger number of states, at least 17, have seen bills introduced or
initiatives begun to legalize the drug for adult use along the lines of alcohol,
the same approach used in Colorado and Washington, but most of those efforts are
considered unlikely of success this year.

In the first sentence, the object of the preposition "despite" is the gerund
"being," so in careful usage we would need the possessive "drug's" - "despite
the drug's still being illegal." But better to rephrase: "Even though the drug
is still illegal ..."

In the second sentence, this is an unidiomatic construction. Make it "unlikely
to succeed."

President Obama won 55 percent of the women's vote against Mitt Romney in 2012,
and Democrats have leaned heavily on issues like reproductive rights and equal
pay to help turn out and energize their base.

We should be cautious with the phrase "reproductive rights," which is vague and
can also have a tendentious tone. Better to be specific - for example, "abortion
rights and coverage for contraceptives."

"We have clear and convincing evidence that he's involved in the production and
distribution of I.E.D.'s," said one senior administration official, referring to
improvised explosive devices, long the leading killer of American troops in
Afghanistan.

Under our revised style rules, there's no apostrophe in the plural of an
abbreviation like this.

Officers arrested a suspect, Rashaun Robinson, 28, in a building near the
shooting, which occurred about 5 p.m. near a bus stop in the area of Utica
Avenue and Empire Boulevard, Chief Philip Banks III said at a news conference at
the hospital with Mayor Bill de Blasio and Police Commissioner William J.
Bratton.

This sentence is a mouthful, with three separate location descriptions and four
names. Break it up.


     ·    Bright Passages
     ·    Tricky Little Things
     ·    Man Bites Sandwich
     ·    Such and Such
     ·    Close but Not Quite


LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                             March 11, 2014 Tuesday

Hotel Discounts for Egencia Users

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 286 words



HIGHLIGHT: Egencia, the business travel brand of Expedia, is offering discounts
to users who book through its new Trip Navigator application.


An increasing number of travelers are turning to their smart phones and tablets
to make travel arrangements on the fly.

In turn, hotels, travel Web sites and application developers seem to be
scrambling to offer more services via mobile applications.

Egencia, the business travel brand of Expedia, has made headway in that area
recently, launching "mobile-only" hotel discounts for Egencia members who book
through its Trip Navigator app.

The discounts give 10 to 50 percent off regular room rates at more than 7,000
partner hotels in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia-Pacific region and
the Middle East and Africa, according to a statement from the company. More than
a third of those hotels will also allow users to accrue loyalty points through
these bookings and will waive same-day cancellation fees.

Egencia members can search for discounted rates through the company's Trip
Navigator app, which was released in November 2013.

In addition to providing a mobile reservation and booking service, it allows
users to view a detailed timeline of their travel plans, including flights, car
rentals, hotel reservations and rail service, along with an interactive map for
each stage of their trip.

Flight status updates and connection to Egencia's travel consultants are also
available through the app, which is compatible with iOS devices.

Until the company launches its version for Android devices-expected within the
next few months-those members can access the service through Egencia's mobile
booking Web site.


     ·    An Early Start for Cyber Deals
     ·    A London Hotel Has a Focus on Sustainability
     ·    Park Hyatt Flagship Is Set for New York
     ·    In Miami Beach, a Concierge for Daytime Activities
     ·    New Butler Services Buff Luxury Hotels


LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 12, 2014 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

N.S.A. Nominee Promotes Cyberwar Units

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 870 words


WASHINGTON -- All of the major combat commands in the United States military
will soon have dedicated forces to conduct cyberattacks alongside their air,
naval and ground capabilities, Vice Adm. Michael S. Rogers, President Obama's
nominee to run the National Security Agency, told the Senate on Tuesday. He said
the activation of the long-discussed combat units would help counter the
perception around the world that the United States is ''an easier mark'' for
cyberattacks because it did not ''have the will to respond.''

Admiral Rogers's comments, in written answers to the Senate Armed Services
Committee, amounted to one of the most detailed public descriptions of how the
United States is spending billions of dollars to develop an offensive military
capability to use cyberweapons. The committee must approve his simultaneous
appointment as the head of United States Cyber Command, a job he will hold in
addition to overseeing the N.S.A. The retiring head of the Cyber Command, Gen.
Keith B. Alexander, first announced the creation of offensive and defensive
teams last year.

During a two-hour appearance before the committee, Admiral Rogers also confirmed
that the United States had seen evidence of cyberattacks on the new government
in Ukraine, but declined to say whether the United States believed the Russian
government was the source of the attacks, or how much damage was done.

''I believe we see it today in the Ukraine,'' he said of the reports of malware,
apparently written in the Moscow time zone, that have shown up in Ukrainian
government systems. ''We've seen it in Syria, Georgia. It increasingly is
becoming a norm.''

''Clearly, cyber will be an element of almost any crisis we're going to see in
the future,'' he told the senators.

At another point in the hearing, Admiral Rogers said he believed that both the
United States and Defense Department systems were both still vulnerable to major
attacks, and would be until ''a new architecture'' was in place to defend them.

Admiral Rogers, currently the head of the Navy's Fleet Cyber Command, was
cautious in what he said in the hearing about the future of the N.S.A.'s
domestic surveillance activities, notably its collection of the metadata --
telephone numbers and durations of calls -- for virtually every call placed in
the United States. He said he was only beginning to learn about their details
since Mr. Obama tapped him for one of the most powerful job combinations in
Washington: head of the country's electronic surveillance and code-breaking
operations, and commander of its growing corps of cyberwarriors.

But he rebuffed suggestions that the N.S.A. could track down terrorism suspects
without having the telephone call data available in some form. And he sounded
hesitant about the possible effects of Mr. Obama's initiative to put that
information into the hands of a third party, expressing concern that it would
slow the ability to track links among potential terrorism suspects. He said the
trick was to ''query the data in a way that both protects the rights of the
individual but also enables us to get answers in a quick, reasonable time
period.''

He promised that the N.S.A.'s programs would become ''more transparent,'' and
said he would ''assure a sense of accountability'' for the agency's activities.

As usual for a public hearing involving the likely head of one of the nation's
most secretive intelligence agencies, the most intriguing answers often involved
what Admiral Rogers left unsaid, or said he was willing to discuss in greater
detail in a classified session. For example, when Senator John McCain,
Republican of Arizona, talked about a recent attack on the Navy's unclassified
computer systems by Iran, Admiral Rogers acknowledged the attack -- and refused
to say what country was behind it. ''It was a significant penetration,'' he told
the committee. But the attackers ''did not opt to engage in any destructive
behaviors,'' he said, suggesting that Iran's main motive was espionage.

While many had expected Admiral Rogers to be grilled about the N.S.A.'s
surveillance programs, he was spared that in part because he was testifying
alongside Gen. Paul J. Selva of the Air Force, whom Mr. Obama nominated to
command the United States Transportation Command, which moves military equipment
and personnel around the world. In scenes reminiscent of the portrayal of
Congress in the Netflix series ''House of Cards,'' senator after senator pressed
General Selva to embrace, on the record, the importance of air bases in their
home districts, ahead of a possible new round of base closings.

Admiral Rogers, however, engaged a subject matter that rarely gets discussed in
public: how to deter attacks on the United States. He said part of the answer
was using ''the newest technology to identify our attackers before and during an
attack -- not just after.''

Without referring directly to a secret N.S.A. program to place ''implants'' on
computer networks around the world, so American officials could see attacks in
the making, he said in his written answer that the United States could make it
clear that it knows where attacks are coming from and is prepared to retaliate.

''This is within our capacity to fix,'' he said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/12/world/europe/nsa-nominee-reports-cyberattacks-
on-ukraine-government.html

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vice Adm. Michael S. Rogers,  right, and Gen. Paul J. Selva
spoke to a Senate committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 13, 2014 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Power Grid Preparedness Falls Short, Report Says

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 648 words


WASHINGTON -- Nearly all the utilities that participated in two-day exercise
last November to test the preparedness of the power grid for online and physical
attacks said that their planning was not good enough, according to a report by
the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, which organized the drill.

But the participants, more than 2,000 of them from across the United States,
Canada and Mexico, said the exercise taught them lessons about whom they would
need to communicate with in an attack, and where their vulnerabilities were.

The report had few details, because organizers said they did not want to provide
a road map about the shortcomings and because they had promised to limit the
scope of their evaluation to induce utilities to participate. But the
reliability group is communicating with the utilities individually about their
performances.

The drill provided ''a one-two punch between cyber and physical security
avenues,'' said Bill Lawrence, manager of critical infrastructure protection
awareness at the electric reliability corporation, which is charged by the
government with enforcing standards of conduct on the grid.

It also uncovered more ordinary problems. For example, planners stress
conference calls to keep all participants informed about attacks on their
neighbors, but the conference system did not have enough telephone lines.

In the drill, participants spent a morning simulating 12 hours of attacks, then
completed another 12 hours in the afternoon. On the second day, industry
executives and government officials conducted a ''tabletop exercise'' to explore
when the federal government might step in during a coordinated attack.

The drill was called Gridex II, short for Grid Exercise. It was more than twice
the size of the first one two years ago and participation exceeded the
organizers' expectations, reflecting wider anxiety about the grid as a
vulnerable national asset. Another exercise is planned for 2015.

In the months since the drill, a report of an attack on a substation in
California has raised more concern about vulnerability. Subsequent investigation
by the police cast doubt on the idea that the attack was the work of more than
one person with insider knowledge. But the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
has told the utilities to prepare reports about their vulnerabilities.

One issue is the security of the reports themselves, which would be a guide for
an attacker.

The president of the reliability group, Gerry Cauley, said that establishing
protection against attacks would have to be fit into context. Utilities are
hardening their systems against big storms like Hurricane Sandy, he said, and
are working on determining their vulnerability to solar activity that changes
the earth's magnetic field.

''We have to keep this always in perspective,'' he said. The question was
''getting the bang from the buck'' spent on behalf of electricity customers for
protection and resiliency. ''We have to be always conscious of that balance,''
he said.

Among the findings after the drill were that the utility system needed better
access to additional transformers, which are large, hard to move and require
long lead times for procurement. The California attack was on transformers.
Also, utilities and law enforcement personnel need to ''develop mechanisms to
preserve evidence and collect forensic data following a suspected physical or
cyberattack,'' all while trying to get the lights back on. In the drill,
emergency medical workers at the scene of a hypothetical attack were sometimes
fired upon by the attackers.

The public report did not detail what the utilities said they had found lacking
in their own planning. But it said that more than 98 percent found the exercise
''useful for identifying opportunities to enhance their cyberincident response
plans,'' and 92 percent said the same for physical incident response plans.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/13/business/energy-environment/power-grid-prepare
dness-falls-short-report-says.html

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 16, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kiev Says Russia Seized Gas Plant Close to Crimea

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN, PETER BAKER and ANDREW E. KRAMER; David M.
Herszenhorn reported from Simferopol, Ukraine; Peter Baker from Washington; and
Andrew E. Kramer from Kiev, Ukraine. Somini Sengupta contributed reporting from
the United Nations, Steven Lee Myers from Moscow, Noah Sneider from Simferopol
and Scott Shane from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1520 words


SIMFEROPOL, Ukraine -- Tensions mounted on the eve of a secession referendum
here in Crimea as helicopter-borne Russian forces made a provocative incursion
just outside the peninsula's regional border to seize a natural gas terminal,
while American and European officials prepared sanctions to impose on Moscow as
early as Monday.

The military operation by at least 80 troops landing on a slender sand bar just
across from Crimea's northeast border seemed part of a broader effort to
strengthen control over the peninsula before a referendum Sunday on whether its
majority Russian-speaking population wants to demand greater autonomy from
Ukraine or break away completely and join Russia. Whatever its tactical goals,
the seizure of the terminal sent a defiant message to the United States and
Europe and underscored that a diplomatic resolution to Russia's recent takeover
of Crimea remains elusive.

The raid came as American and European diplomats at the United Nations pushed
for a vote on a resolution declaring the Sunday referendum illegal, essentially
forcing Russia to veto the measure. In the end, Russia cast the only vote
against it; even China, its traditional ally on the Council, did not vote with
Moscow but abstained, an indication of its unease with Russia's violation of
another country's sovereignty. Western diplomats hoped the result would
reinforce Russia's growing international isolation over Ukraine.

American and European officials worked through the day readying lists of
Russians to penalize after the referendum, including possibly vital members of
President Vladimir V. Putin's inner circle. Among the Russians who have been on
at least some lists circulated for consideration for Western sanctions,
according to officials, are Sergei K. Shoigu, the defense minister; Aleksandr V.
Bortnikov, director of the Federal Security Service; Nikolai P. Patrushev, the
secretary of the security council; Sergei B. Ivanov and Vladislav Surkov, two of
Mr. Putin's closest and most powerful advisers; Dmitri O. Rogozin, a deputy
prime minister; Aleksei Miller, the chief executive of Gazprom, the state energy
giant; and Igor Sechin, head of the oil company Rosneft.

President Obama and his European counterparts may start with only some of the
Putin confidants in whatever sanctions are imposed immediately after the
referendum, so as to have the means to further escalate their response should
Russia continue to press its seizure of Ukrainian territory. Instead, they may
focus at first on lower-level officials, military leaders, business tycoons or
parliamentarians.

The sanctions would ban the targets from traveling to Europe or the United
States and freeze any assets they had in either place. Western officials said
they do not plan to sanction Mr. Putin himself, at least at this point, because
he is a head of state, nor do they intend to target Sergey V. Lavrov, the
foreign minister, because he needs to travel if there are any future diplomatic
talks.

Mr. Obama's cabinet secretaries and top advisers huddled in the White House on
Saturday to discuss their strategy, joined by Secretary of State John Kerry, who
returned from a fruitless last-ditch diplomatic trip to talk with Mr. Lavrov in
London.

The degree of sanctions and the exact timing may depend on how Moscow reacts
immediately after the referendum, which is almost universally expected to
approve seceding from Ukraine and becoming part of Russia, officials said. If
Mr. Putin moves promptly to initiate annexation, that would trigger immediate
action, but if he holds back and leaves room for talks, Washington and Brussels
may defer the tougher actions.

Russia left little impression of backing down on Saturday. Russian forces made a
show of added strength here in Simferopol, the regional capital, stationing
armed personnel carriers in at least two locations in the city center and
parking two large troop carriers outside the headquarters of the election
commission. Before Saturday, the heavy equipment had largely been kept out of
the city.

The more provocative move, however, was the seizure of the gas terminal in the
Kherson region near a town called Strelkovoye, which drew new threats of a
military response from the Ukrainian government. Until now, it has refrained
from responding in force to Russian actions, but it sent troops Saturday to
surround the gas terminal, according to a Ukrainian news service quoting local
police, though there were no immediate indications of any shots being fired.

In Kiev, the Foreign Ministry said in a statement that Ukraine ''reserves the
right to use all necessary measures'' to stop what it called ''the military
invasion by Russia.''

The White House suggested the move by Russia only increased the likelihood of
sanctions. ''We remain concerned about any attempt by Russia to increase
tensions or threaten the Ukrainian people, and as we have long said, if Russia
continues to take escalatory steps, there will be consequences,'' said Caitlin
Hayden, a White House spokeswoman.

The pro-Russian government in Crimea issued a statement saying its
''self-defense'' forces had seized the gas terminal because Ukraine had turned
off the supply of fuel, leaving homes, hospitals and schools without heat or
electricity. The government also said that it found the terminal rigged with
explosives ''with the goal of totally destroying it,'' which would cut off gas
to eastern cities in Crimea.

Those claims, carried by the Interfax news service, were impossible to verify
independently. Power in some parts of Crimea appeared to be disrupted in recent
days, although it was possible that was because of power lines downed by high
winds.

Although the Crimean government sought to take responsibility for the operation,
there was little doubt that it was conducted by Russian forces, given the
involvement of helicopters and other sophisticated equipment.

The move appeared to fit the pattern of deployment on Crimea. The Ukrainian
Unian news agency cited local residents saying soldiers without identifying
insignia had landed near the gas terminal in helicopters with Russia's red-star
tail art.

Officials in Ukraine have worried Russia would begin to take steps to ensure it
could continue to provide services to Crimea, including trying to secure gas
supplies that come from outside the peninsula. Such steps would be expected to
diminish Ukraine's leverage over Crimea.

The showdown at the United Nations was dramatic in its own way. The Russian
ambassador, Vitaly I. Churkin, preceded his veto by saying that Moscow would
respect the results of Sunday's referendum, but he did not say what it would do
afterward. He described the referendum as an ''extraordinary measure,''
expressing the Crimean people's right to self-determination, made necessary by
what he called an ''illegal coup carried out by radicals'' in Ukraine, referring
to the street protests that led to the ouster of President Viktor F. Yanukovych,
a Russian ally.

Western officials crafted the language to persuade China not to side with
Moscow. China is sensitive about talk of secession since it has its own worries
about restive regions, including Tibet.

''China has always respected the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all
states,'' said Liu Jieyi, the Chinese ambassador, explaining his abstention
before adding a jab at the West: ''At the same time, we have noticed foreign
interference is also an important reason leading to violent clashes on the
streets of Ukraine.''

The officials meeting in Washington and Europe working on sanctions saw three
scenarios for Monday and beyond: Mr. Putin does not act; he moves to begin the
legal processes of annexation; or, in the worst case, he moves to seize parts of
eastern Ukraine.

Also on Saturday, amid the tensions between the West and Russia, NATO announced
that several of its websites had been hit by cyberattacks. A spokeswoman said on
Twitter that the sites had been hit by a denial of service attack, but that
there had been no operational effect. A former Obama administration official
said responsibility for the attack was claimed by a group called cyber-Berkut.
Ukraine's riot police are known as the Berkut.

Ukrainian officials have been worried about an escalation of Russian military
actions, reporting shifting tanks and troops in the north of Crimea, near the
Ukrainian mainland. A spokesman in Crimea, Vladislav Seleznyov, said troops and
trucks towing artillery pieces moved from Kerch, a city near the strait of the
same name separating Crimea from Russia, to the north.

In one episode on Saturday night, masked gunmen stormed into the Hotel Moskva in
Simferopol where foreign journalists are staying. The heavily armed men, many in
plainclothes, searched some rooms. Some journalists said their flash drives had
been taken.

Crimean officials insisted it was a training exercise.

Mr. Putin on Saturday was in the southern Russian resort city of Sochi, where he
watched the open relay in cross-country ski racing in the Paralympics. Russia
won the gold; Ukraine won the silver. The Kremlin issued a statement saying Mr.
Putin had congratulated both teams.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/16/world/europe/russian-troops-seize-gas-plant-be
yond-crimean-border-ukraine-says.html

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Ukrainian servicemen guarded a checkpoint near the village
Salkovo, in Kherson region, on Saturday. Above armed men left the Hotel Moskva
in Simferopol after taking over some floors. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VALENTYN
OGIRENKO/REUTERS
 URIEL SINAI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) MAPS (A13)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 17, 2014 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Policy Is Put to Test

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1725 words


WASHINGTON -- For five years, President Obama has consciously recast how America
engages with the world's toughest customers. But with Russia poised to annex
Crimea after Sunday's referendum, with a mounting threat to the rest of Ukraine
and with the carnage in Syria accelerating, Mr. Obama's strategy is now under
greater stress than at any time in his presidency.

In his first term, the White House described its approach as the ''light
footprint'': ''Dumb wars'' of occupation -- how Mr. Obama once termed Iraq --
were out. Drone strikes, cyberattacks and Special Operations raids that made use
of America's technological superiority were the new, quick-and-dirty expression
of military and covert power. When he did agree to have American forces join the
bombing of Libya in 2011, Mr. Obama insisted that NATO and Arab states ''put
skin in the game,'' a phrase he vastly prefers to ''leading from behind.''

As he learned to play the long game, the Treasury Department became Mr. Obama's
favorite noncombatant command. It refined the art of the economic squeeze on
Iran, eventually forcing the mullahs to the negotiating table.

But so far those tools -- or even the threat of them -- have proved
frustratingly ineffective in the most recent crises. Sanctions and modest help
to the Syrian rebels have failed to halt the slaughter; if anything, the killing
worsened as negotiations dragged on.

The White House was taken by surprise by Vladimir V. Putin's decisions to invade
Crimea, but also by China's increasingly assertive declaration of exclusive
rights to airspace and barren islands. Neither the economic pressure nor the
cyberattacks that forced Iran to reconsider its approach have prevented North
Korea's stealthy revitalization of its nuclear and missile programs.

In short, America's adversaries are testing the limits of America's post-Iraq,
post-Afghanistan moment.

''We're seeing the 'light footprint' run out of gas,'' said one of Mr. Obama's
former senior national security aides, who would not speak on the record about
his ex-boss.

''No one is arguing for military action, for bringing back George Bush's
chest-thumping,'' the former aide said. At the same time, he said, the
president's oft-repeated lines that those who violate international norms will
be ''isolated'' and ''pay a heavy price'' over the long term have sounded ''more
like predictions over time, and less like imminent threats.''

Mr. Obama acknowledges, at least in private, that he is managing an era of
American retrenchment. History suggests that such eras -- akin to what the
United States went through after the two world wars and Vietnam -- often look
like weakness to the rest of the world. His former national security adviser
Thomas Donilon seemed to acknowledge the critical nature of the moment on Sunday
when he said on ''Face the Nation'' that what Mr. Obama was facing was ''a
challenge to the post-Cold War order in Europe, an order that we have a lot to
do with.''

But while Mr. Donilon expressed confidence that over time the United States
holds powerful tools against Russia and other nations, in the short term
challengers like Mr. Putin have the advantage on the ground.

Not surprisingly, the testing of administration policy at a time the president
is politically weakened at home has sparked a critical question. Is it Mr.
Obama's deliberative, pick-your-battles approach that is encouraging adversaries
to press the limits? Or is this simply a time when exercising leverage over
countries that defy American will or the international order is trickier than
ever, and when the domestic pressure to stay out of international conflicts is
obvious to overseas friends and foes alike?

It is almost certainly some combination of the two. But the most stinging
critique of Mr. Obama is that the pendulum has swung too far in the direction of
nonintervention. Condoleezza Rice, President George W. Bush's secretary of
state, argues that five years of signaling that others need to step in, of
stressing that America can no longer police the world, have taken a toll.

''There was a view that if the United States pulled back and stopped 'imposing'
and 'insisting' in the world, the vacuum would be filled by good things: the
international community and the allies,'' Ms. Rice said in a recent phone
conversation from Stanford University, where she teaches. ''But what has filled
that space has been brutal dictators; extremist forces, especially in Iraq and
Syria; and nationalism.''

Ms. Rice was enthusiastic about Mr. Obama's election in 2008, and talked to him
frequently during the transition. But she argues now that many of his decisions
-- such as abandoning a plan to strike Syria for its use of chemical weapons and
proposing a defense budget that shrinks the Army to its lowest levels since
World War II just as the Chinese announced a 12 percent increase in their
military spending -- send clear signals.

''Asia's in an all-out nationalist mood that's the real cost of American
withdrawal,'' she argues.

That perception, right or wrong, is shared by some traditional allies. The
Israelis worry there is diminished interest in keeping American aircraft
carriers in the Persian Gulf, and fear that if a nuclear deal is struck with
Iran, Washington will no longer anchor an alliance to contain Tehran. The Saudis
are talking anew about the possibility of needing a nuclear deterrent of their
own.

Mr. Obama and his senior staff members tell a very different story -- one in
which the president has capitalized on the benefits of getting out of Iraq, and
almost out of Afghanistan, to employ more subtle, smarter tools of national
power. The ''pivot to Asia,'' which has been slow to materialize, was supposed
to be emblematic of a new combination of soft and hard power; it was as much
about building trade relationships as making it clear to the Chinese leadership
that America has no intention of ceding the East and South China Seas as areas
where Beijing could expect to become the sole power.

The latest budget invests more in drones and cyber and Special Operations
forces, and pares back on conventional troops and the equipment for long land
wars.

''If we are constantly overextending ourselves, chasing every crisis, we're not
going to be able to play the long game required for American primacy,'' said
Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser.

Mr. Obama insists he is sending the right signals: He argued to Jeffrey Goldberg
in Bloomberg View recently that there are ''35,000 U.S. military personnel'' in
the Middle East who are constantly training ''under the direction of a president
who already has shown himself willing to take military action in the past.''

But the president also made the case that Washington is awash with
muscle-flexing by those who have not learned the lessons of the past decade. If
he had sent troops to Syria, Mr. Obama argued, ''there was the possibility that
we would have made the situation worse rather than better on the ground,
precisely because of U.S. involvement, which would have meant that we would have
had the third or, if you count Libya, the fourth war in a Muslim country in the
span of a decade.''

Still, some senior officials who left the White House after the first term
concede -- when assured of anonymity -- that Mr. Obama erred in failing to have
a plan to back up his declaration that President Bashar al-Assad had to leave
office. And Arab leaders argue that Mr. Obama's last-minute decision to pull
back from the missile strike on Syria will embolden the Iranians as they decide
how much, if any, of their nuclear program to give up.

Foreign leaders say they see America's unwillingness to act as the inevitable
backlash of too many years at war. ''In the past decade we've seen the
consequences and the limits of taking action,'' said David Miliband, the former
British foreign secretary who now runs the International Rescue Committee, as he
described his organization's efforts to help an overwhelming influx of refugees
over Syria's borders. ''Here we're seeing the consequences and limits of
inaction.''

Egypt is a good example. Despite threats by the United States to cut off several
billion dollars in support for the Egyptian military if its generals continued
their brutal crackdowns, protesters are still in jail, and the coming
presidential election seems all but certain to be manipulated. Asked why the
generals are so cavalier about losing American aid, a senior American diplomat
who deals often with the Egyptians has an easy answer: ''We don't give them
enough that they really care.''

Russia is the next test. Ukraine's best defense today against a Russian
incursion beyond Crimea is not its army or its allies, but the markets. The
ruble has already fallen 10 percent this year, Russia's exports are down, and a
full-scale invasion would most likely force even the most reluctant Europeans to
enact real sanctions. Among them is Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who
changed her tone the other day and warned that if Russia ''continues on its
course,'' the result will be ''massive damage to Russia, both economically and
politically.''

Mr. Obama's critics, seeing political advantage, argue that the world smells
weakness. ''There are no consequences when you defy what Obama's telling you to
do,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham, the South Carolina Republican, who is one of
the president's harshest critics.

Mr. Rhodes dismisses such arguments. ''There's a lot of magical thinking going
on that if we had gone to war in Syria, Vladimir Putin would have never gone
into Crimea,'' he said. ''That is fantasy. The United States went into Iraq, and
it never stopped Putin from going into Georgia.''

In fact, said Richard N. Haass, the president of the Council on Foreign
Relations and a Republican who worked for both the first President George Bush
and his son, to put the blame on Mr. Obama is to ''ignore history, geography and
politics, and lets both the Europeans and the Ukrainians themselves off the
hook.''

But the multiple crises on Mr. Obama's plate will shape the world's view of
American power. ''You can bet the Chinese are watching our every move'' to see
if the United States imposes biting sanctions and if the Russians figure out how
to evade them, one senior intelligence official said. ''They want to know where
the limits are, or if there are any.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/17/world/obamas-policy-is-put-to-the-test-as-cris
es-challenge-caution.html

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A crowd supporting Russia gathered Sunday in Kharkiv, Ukraine.
It briefly confronted police officers outside a government offic (PHOTOGRAPH BY
TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 22, 2014 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Obama and Tech Executives to Meet Again on Privacy Issues

BYLINE: By DAVID S. JOACHIM

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg.

LENGTH: 249 words


WASHINGTON -- President Obama will meet with technology executives on Friday
afternoon to discuss ''issues of privacy, technology and intelligence,'' a
senior White House official said, amid growing concerns in Silicon Valley that
intelligence agencies' cyber snooping is steering customers away from buying
American technology.

The White House has not provided a list of the executives who were invited to
the Oval Office meeting, which is scheduled to begin around 4 p.m.

Mr. Obama held a similar meeting in December. A month later, the president
announced he was taking steps to re-evaluate the breadth of the National
Security Agency's electronic surveillance programs, including a curtailing of
the bulk collection of phone records, though he provided few details and said
almost nothing about Internet eavesdropping.

Last week, Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, wrote on his
Facebook page that he was ''confused and frustrated'' by a series of news media
disclosures about ways in which the N.S.A. has penetrated the defenses of
hardware and software companies to monitor Internet activities.

''I've called President Obama to express my frustration over the damage the
government is creating for all of our future,'' Mr. Zuckerberg wrote.
''Unfortunately, it seems like it will take a very long time for true full
reform.''

The Obama administration is reviewing the bulk data collection program, and
several bills are pending in Congress that would curtail N.S.A. surveillance.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/22/technology/obama-and-tech-executives-to-meet-a
gain-on-privacy-issues.html

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 23, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Penetrated Chinese Servers It Saw as Spy Risk

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1758 words


WASHINGTON -- American officials have long considered Huawei, the Chinese
telecommunications giant, a security threat, blocking it from business deals in
the United States for fear that the company would create ''back doors'' in its
equipment that could allow the Chinese military or Beijing-backed hackers to
steal corporate and government secrets.

But even as the United States made a public case about the dangers of buying
from Huawei, classified documents show that the National Security Agency was
creating its own back doors -- directly into Huawei's networks.

The agency pried its way into the servers in Huawei's sealed headquarters in
Shenzhen, China's industrial heart, according to N.S.A. documents provided by
the former contractor Edward J. Snowden. It obtained information about the
workings of the giant routers and complex digital switches that Huawei boasts
connect a third of the world's population, and monitored communications of the
company's top executives.

One of the goals of the operation, code-named ''Shotgiant,'' was to find any
links between Huawei and the People's Liberation Army, one 2010 document made
clear. But the plans went further: to exploit Huawei's technology so that when
the company sold equipment to other countries -- including both allies and
nations that avoid buying American products -- the N.S.A. could roam through
their computer and telephone networks to conduct surveillance and, if ordered by
the president, offensive cyberoperations.

''Many of our targets communicate over Huawei-produced products,'' the N.S.A.
document said. ''We want to make sure that we know how to exploit these
products,'' it added, to ''gain access to networks of interest'' around the
world.

The documents were disclosed by The New York Times and Der Spiegel, and are also
part of a book by Der Spiegel, ''The N.S.A. Complex.'' The documents, as well as
interviews with intelligence officials, offer new insights into the United
States' escalating digital cold war with Beijing. While President Obama and
China's president, Xi Jinping, have begun talks about limiting the cyber
conflict, it appears to be intensifying.

The N.S.A., for example, is tracking more than 20 Chinese hacking groups -- more
than half of them Chinese Army and Navy units -- as they break into the networks
of the United States government, companies including Google, and drone and
nuclear-weapon part makers, according to a half-dozen current and former
American officials.

If anything, they said, the pace has increased since the revelation last year
that some of the most aggressive Chinese hacking originated at a People's
Liberation Army facility, Unit 61398, in Shanghai.

The Obama administration distinguishes between the hacking and corporate theft
that the Chinese conduct against American companies to buttress their own
state-run businesses, and the intelligence operations that the United States
conducts against Chinese and other targets.

American officials have repeatedly said that the N.S.A. breaks into foreign
networks only for legitimate national security purposes.

A White House spokeswoman, Caitlin M. Hayden, said: ''We do not give
intelligence we collect to U.S. companies to enhance their international
competitiveness or increase their bottom line. Many countries cannot say the
same.''

But that does not mean the American government does not conduct its own form of
corporate espionage with a different set of goals. Those concerning Huawei were
described in the 2010 document.

''If we can determine the company's plans and intentions,'' an analyst wrote,
''we hope that this will lead us back to the plans and intentions of the PRC,''
referring to the People's Republic of China. The N.S.A. saw an additional
opportunity: As Huawei invested in new technology and laid undersea cables to
connect its $40 billion-a-year networking empire, the agency was interested in
tunneling into key Chinese customers, including ''high priority targets -- Iran,
Afghanistan, Pakistan, Kenya, Cuba.''

The documents offer no answer to a central question: Is Huawei an independent
company, as its leaders contend, or a front for the People's Liberation Army, as
American officials suggest but have never publicly proved?

Two years after Shotgiant became a major program, the House Intelligence
Committee delivered an unclassified report on Huawei and another Chinese
company, ZTE, that cited no evidence confirming the suspicions about Chinese
government ties. Still, the October 2012 report concluded that the companies
must be blocked from ''acquisitions, takeover or mergers'' in the United States,
and ''cannot be trusted to be free of foreign state influence.''

Huawei, which has all but given up its hopes of entering the American market,
complains that it is the victim of protectionism, swathed in trumped-up national
security concerns. Company officials insist that it has no connection to the
People's Liberation Army.

William Plummer, a senior Huawei executive in the United States, said the
company had no idea it was an N.S.A. target, adding that in his personal
opinion, ''The irony is that exactly what they are doing to us is what they have
always charged that the Chinese are doing through us.''

''If such espionage has been truly conducted,'' Mr. Plummer added, ''then it is
known that the company is independent and has no unusual ties to any government,
and that knowledge should be relayed publicly to put an end to an era of mis-
and disinformation.''

Blocked at Every Turn

Washington's concerns about Huawei date back nearly a decade, since the RAND
Corporation, the research organization, evaluated the potential threat of China
for the American military. RAND concluded that ''private Chinese companies such
as Huawei'' were part of a new ''digital triangle'' of companies, institutes and
government agencies that worked together secretly.

Huawei is a global giant: it manufactures equipment that makes up the backbone
of the Internet, lays submarine cables from Asia to Africa and has become the
world's third largest smartphone maker after Samsung and Apple.

The man behind its strategy is Ren Zhengfei, the company's elusive founder, who
was a P.L.A. engineer in the 1970s. To the Chinese, he is something akin to
Steve Jobs -- an entrepreneur who started a digital empire with little more than
$3,000 in the mid-1980s, and took on both state-owned companies and foreign
competitors. But to American officials, he is a link to the People's Liberation
Army.

They have blocked his company at every turn: pressing Sprint to kill a $3
billion deal to buy Huawei's fourth generation, or 4G, network technology;
scuttling a planned purchase of 3Com for fear that Huawei would alter computer
code sold to the United States military; and pushing allies, like Australia, to
back off from major projects.

As long ago as 2007, the N.S.A. began a covert program against Huawei, the
documents show. By 2010, the agency's Tailored Access Operations unit -- which
breaks into hard-to-access networks -- found a way into Huawei's headquarters.
The agency collected Mr. Ren's communications, one document noted, though
analysts feared they might be missing many of them.

N.S.A. analysts made clear that they were looking for more than just ''signals
intelligence'' about the company and its connections to Chinese leaders; they
wanted to learn how to pierce its systems so that when adversaries and allies
bought Huawei equipment, the United States would be plugged into those networks.
(The Times withheld technical details of the operation at the request of the
Obama administration, which cited national security concerns.)

The N.S.A.'s operations against China do not stop at Huawei. Last year, the
agency cracked two of China's biggest cellphone networks, allowing it to track
strategically important Chinese military units, according to an April 2013
document leaked by Mr. Snowden. Other major targets, the document said, are the
locations where the Chinese leadership works. The country's leaders, like
everyone else, are constantly upgrading to better, faster Wi-Fi -- and the
N.S.A. is constantly finding new ways in.

Hack Attacks Accelerate

Chinese state attacks have only accelerated in recent years, according to the
current and former intelligence officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity
about classified information.

A dozen P.L.A. military units -- aside from Unit 61398 -- do their hacking from
eavesdropping posts around China, and though their targets were initially
government agencies and foreign ministries around the world, they have since
expanded into the private sector. For example, officials point to the First
Bureau of the army's Third Department, which the N.S.A. began tracking in 2004
after it hacked into the Pentagon's networks. The unit's targets have grown to
include telecom and technology companies that specialize in networking and
encryption equipment -- including some Huawei competitors.

For some of its most audacious attacks, China relies on hackers at state-funded
universities and privately owned Chinese technology companies, apparently as
much for their skills as for the plausible deniability it offers the state if it
gets caught. The N.S.A. is tracking more than half a dozen such groups suspected
of operating at the behest of the Chinese Ministry of State Security, China's
civilian spy agency, the officials said.

Their targets, they noted, closely align with China's stated economic and
strategic directives. As China strove to develop drones and next-generation
ballistic and submarine-launched missiles in recent years, the N.S.A. and its
partners watched as one group of privately employed engineers based in Guangzhou
in southern China pilfered the blueprints to missile, satellite, space, and
nuclear propulsion technology from businesses in the United States, Canada,
Europe, Russia and Africa.

And as China strove to make its own inroads on the web, officials said another
group of private hackers infiltrated Google, Adobe and dozens of other global
technology companies in 2010. Lately, the officials said, that group and its
counterparts are also going after security firms, banks, chemical companies,
automakers and even nongovernment organizations.

''China does more in terms of cyberespionage than all other countries put
together,'' said James A. Lewis, a computer security expert at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington.

''The question is no longer which industries China is hacking into,'' he added.
''It's which industries they aren't hacking into.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/23/world/asia/nsa-breached-chinese-servers-seen-a
s-spy-peril.html

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ren Zhengfei, founder of Huawei, is seen as a Chinese version
of Steve Jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DMITRY LOVETSKY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY FORBES CONRAD/BLOOMBERG, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (A10) CHART:
Acting to Block a Chinese Telecom Giant: Over the past seven years, the United
States government has taken steps to block the Chinese telecommunications and
Internet giant Huawei from gaining a foothold here, fearing that the company
could act on behalf of the Chinese military to gain access to government and
corporate secrets. The company was founded in 1987 and by the mid-'90s had begun
making inroads into the U.S. telecom equipment market.
 U.S. RELATIONS WITH HUAWEI (A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             March 23, 2014 Sunday

Name-Calling in the Virtual Playground

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 785 words



HIGHLIGHT: Secret is the latest social media platform to confront the tendency
of anonymous chat to provide cover for bad behavior.


Silicon Valley sometimes feels like high school. It has its alpha types and its
outcasts, its bullies and its bullied.

That, anyway, is one takeaway from the recent flap over Secret, a six-week-old
social app that connects people anonymously. Secret has apparently put the
Valley in touch with its inner 10th grader and become a cyber-schoolyard for all
manner of gossips and trolls inside the technology industry. The blowback has
been swift.

Veronica Belmont, a video host and technology writer, promptly hung up on the
app. "Deleted the app Secret," Ms. Belmont wrote in early February.

Aaron Durand, a photographer, soon followed. "It's not me, it's you," Mr. Durand
tweeted a few days later. Many others followed suit.

"I don't need that kind of hate in my life," one entrepreneur told me. "It's
like high school all over again."

If this is what happens in the temples of American technology, think what will
happen when Secret and similar apps hit real high schools and middle schools.
Parents, you have been warned.

The founders of Secret, Chrys Bader-Wechseler and David Byttow, told me that
they saw the potential pitfalls and were trying to find ways to prevent
cyberbullying over their app before it finds its way to youngsters. They said
Secret was supposed to help people, not hurt them.

And yet the dangers of these types of apps are clear. Cyberbullying is bad
enough when you know who is doing the bullying. It can be even worse when the
source is cloaked by design. Last year, nine teen suicides were linked to
bullying on Ask.fm, a website that lets people ask questions and leave comments
anonymously.

The issue became so severe that Ask.fm hired Mishcon de Reya, a law firm based
in London, to conduct an independent review of the site. That, in turn, prompted
Ask.fm, which is based in Latvia, to create tools that give users the ability to
turn off questions from anonymous users, block unwanted users and report
offensive content.

Ilja Terebin, chief executive of Ask.fm, said that the company was aware of the
challenges but that young people needed places to express their views privately.

"On one hand, we have to deliver a value for our users, which includes free
speech and uninhibited communication," Mr. Terebin said. "On the other hand, we
must ensure that the most vulnerable groups of our users receive sound support
and protection."

But how can we offer people - adults and teens alike - anonymity without
encouraging bad behavior? A lot of experiments are underway. A new social app
called Facefeed lets people share photos, but only allows people to discuss the
photos in a private message. Shots, a social app for selfies, has forgone a
comment system altogether. "With comments, kids can be humiliated in front of a
large audience," said John Shahidi, a founder of Shots.

Yik Yak, which is similar to Secret and lets people post anonymously to their
friends, said last week that it was banning middle and high school students and
that it would disable the service around schools.

Yik Yak has reportedly been used to taunt students and make bomb threats,
raising concern among school authorities. Susan Opferman, the principal of Webb
Bridge Middle School in Alpharetta., Ga., recently warned parents in a letter:
"Yik Yak posts can be especially vicious and hurtful, since there is no way to
trace their source."

To reduce negative comments, Secret has said that it is adding features that
detect when people's names are typed into in messages and warn those who would
include them to "think before they post." Users also have the ability to ban
those who trash-talk others.

"The majority of the content on the app is positive and friendly," said Mr.
Bader-Wechseler, Secret's chief product and design lead. "We have to be
realistic. We're living in a world that is not a utopia, and we need to make
sure we're taking all the right steps to make sure that the good outweighs the
evil."

For now, Mr. Bader-Wechseler said, the company is learning what not to do when
the app does fall into the hands of children. But it's unclear if the app has
already been infused with the DNA of bullies and those bullied. And, if so, if
it's possible to change that.

I asked Mr. Terebin at Ask.fm if he had any advice for Secret and other
anonymous apps. He said these services should build moderating systems and
empower users to report bad behavior.

"This means that companies must invest in their safety protocols from the very
beginning," Mr. Terebin said.


     ·    A Conversation With Danah Boyd, Author of 'It's Complicated,' About
          Teenagers Online
     ·    The Allure of the Print Book
     ·    Still on Facebook, but Finding Less to Like
     ·    Snapchat, How Quickly You Have Grown
     ·    Teenagers Prove Fickle When Choosing Social Networks


LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 24, 2014 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Birchbox, Seller of Beauty Products, Steps Out From Web With a Store

BYLINE: By HILARY STOUT

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1122 words


A banner for the hair salon that once occupied these quarters still hangs
outside an abandoned West Broadway storefront in the heart of SoHo's main
shopping area in Manhattan. Inside, the 4,500-square-foot duplex space is
utterly empty, with no hint of what -- if anything -- will fill it next.

Two young, stylish women emerge from a car-service S.U.V. on a chilly Monday
afternoon and open the locked door with a key. They are Katia Beauchamp, 31, and
Hayley Barna, 30, former Harvard Business School classmates, founders of the
fast-growing online beauty subscription company Birchbox -- and now, the latest
in a string of successful Internet entrepreneurs to try to open an actual store.

Birchbox, known for the vivid pink cardboard boxes of sample products that it
sends to its subscribers each month, shook up the cosmetic and beauty industry
by figuring out a way to get consumers to buy makeup online, and to pay for
samples that department store makeup counters usually give away.

Now the four-year-old company, which was all about making an almost exclusively
offline industry work on the web, is quietly planning to open its first retail
store this spring, probably in late May.

Birchbox's path from cyber to cement is one that some other purely online
players have decided to take over the last couple of years. The online eyeglass
retailer Warby Parker, the online men's clothing company Bonobos and the women's
fashion retailer Piperlime, all once avowedly web-only enterprises, have opened
scattered stores over the last few years.

But many have followed something of a brick-and-mortar-lite formula, creating
stores that were essentially showrooms for the online operation. You can touch
and try on merchandise but you cannot walk out the door with purchased goods.
Birchbox, by contrast, is aiming at a full-blown shopping and lifestyle
''experience.''

There will be about 2,000 products for sale in the store (representing some 150
to 250 brands). It will have a row of vanities for product testing. A B.Y.O.B.
-- build your own Birchbox -- section will let shoppers fill those pink boxes
with samples of their choice for $15. A separate floor will be set aside for
classes on topics such as makeup and skin care tricks, and services like hair
styling.

Technology will be at the heart of the experience, with touch screens throughout
the store. Customers will be able to answer questions about themselves and pull
up product recommendations and customer reviews.

All this leads to a question: Even today, can a retail company exist exclusively
online? A recent study by PricewaterhouseCoopers concluded that what consumers
really want is the ''Total Retail'' experience, not separate channels like
online, mobile and in-store, but a fully integrated relationship with a brand.

''Convenient physical stores, a website capable of handling purchases, a mobile
site or app -- these capabilities are simply the price of admission for a
healthy relationship with a consumer,'' the report said.

The allure of a physical presence is still so powerful that Craig R. Johnson,
president of Customer Growth Partners, a retail consulting and research firm,
says he believes that even some of the blockbuster Internet brands that are not
specifically retailers will at least consider it in the coming years.

''An Apple store doesn't just exist to sell iPads and MacBook Pros, it exists to
create a brand experience that builds loyalty, brand and buzz,'' he said, noting
that Apple's retail stores are only about a decade old. ''If you are a Google
and you are an eBay, you are sitting there on the Internet. The Internet is
emotionally a very flat experience. It can never match the experience of being
there in person.''

Birchbox has learned that as well. It experimented by opening five ''pop up''
stores for brief stints in New York City and the Hamptons. ''We saw some clues
along the way -- wow, it's really powerful to interact with our customers,'' Ms.
Barna said.

She and Ms. Beauchamp came up with the idea for Birchbox in 2010 while they were
still in business school, based on the notion that a cosmetics counter can be
intimidating and terrifying for most women.

They envisioned an online subscription service that could serve as something
between a magazine beauty editor and a close friend. It would counsel customers
on what looks best for their type of coloring and lifestyle, and send high-end
samples each month to get them to try the products, and hopefully buy more.

Ms. Beauchamp had been an intern at Estée Lauder in college, and they
cold-called a few cosmetics companies, managing to persuade them to agree to
send free sample products to the fledgling company, something their 450 brand
partners continue to do today.

The concept caught on fast. For a $10 monthly fee, subscribers receive a pink
box in the mail each month (now there's dark green for men), packed with sample
lotions, lipstick and other goodies, often high-end and tailored just for them.
The hope and expectation was that they would like them so much that they would
order the full size.

That did indeed happen, but not always by ordering through birchbox.com, the
founders acknowledge. Company research shows that some people simply bought the
items at department store cosmetic counters or chains like Sephora. That may
have made their brand partners happy, but it left the founders scratching their
heads about how to retain their value. Only 30 percent of the company's business
today comes from full-size product sales.

With the store, Ms. Beauchamp said, ''We want that message to be clearer to
consumers. You're supposed to discover what you love and then act on that'' by
buying it from Birchbox.

The company has grown so fast that it is now on its fifth office, with a staff
that has expanded to 250 people. The number of subscribers has swelled to more
than 800,000 (double the total last year), and the company has shipped nine
million of its boxes since it began.

All of this has been accomplished relatively cheaply. The company has raised
only $12 million so far from a variety of venture firms, though Birchbox is
planning a more ambitious round of fund-raising soon.

Ms. Beauchamp and Ms. Barna will not say when or whether they will open stores
in other cities. The New York location will be a laboratory of sorts. They
recognize it will need a different type of employee from those who sit in front
of screens in their airy Chelsea headquarters.

And they are clear that they do not expect the store to be a moneymaking
operation.

''We are not focused on profitability, we are focused on hypergrowth,'' Ms.
Beauchamp said. ''We like the idea of building a store along with the
business.''

Said Ms. Barna: ''This is the brand's moment to shine.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/24/business/birchbox-seller-of-beauty-products-st
eps-out-from-web-with-a-store.html

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hayley Barna, left, and Katia Beauchamp, Birchbox's co-founders,
will open a physical store. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 24, 2014 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fighting Name-Calling on Virtual Playgrounds

BYLINE: By NICK BILTON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 766 words


Silicon Valley sometimes feels like high school. It has its alpha types and its
outcasts, its bullies and its bullied.

That, anyway, is one takeaway from the recent flap over Secret, a six-week-old
social app that connects people anonymously. Secret has apparently put the
Valley in touch with its inner 10th grader and become a cyber-schoolyard for all
manner of gossips and trolls inside the technology industry. The blowback has
been swift.

Veronica Belmont, a video host and technology writer, promptly hung up on the
app. ''Deleted the app Secret,'' Ms. Belmont wrote in early February.

Aaron Durand, a photographer, soon followed. ''It's not me, it's you,'' Mr.
Durand tweeted a few days later. Many others followed suit.

''I don't need that kind of hate in my life,'' one entrepreneur told me. ''It's
like high school all over again.''

If this is what happens in the temples of American technology, think what will
happen when Secret and similar apps hit real high schools and middle schools.
Parents, you have been warned.

The founders of Secret, Chrys Bader-Wechseler and David Byttow, told me that
they saw the potential pitfalls and were trying to find ways to prevent
cyberbullying over their app before it finds its way to youngsters. They said
Secret was supposed to help people, not hurt them.

And yet the dangers of these types of apps are clear. Cyberbullying is bad
enough when you know who is doing the bullying. It can be even worse when the
source is cloaked by design. Last year, nine teen suicides were linked to
bullying on Ask.fm, a website that lets people ask questions and leave comments
anonymously.

The issue became so severe that Ask.fm hired Mishcon de Reya, a law firm based
in London, to conduct an independent review of the site. That, in turn, prompted
Ask.fm, which is based in Latvia, to create tools that give users the ability to
turn off questions from anonymous users, block unwanted users and report
offensive content.

Ilja Terebin, chief executive of Ask.fm, said that the company was aware of the
challenges but that young people needed places to express their views privately.

''On one hand, we have to deliver a value for our users, which includes free
speech and uninhibited communication,'' Mr. Terebin said. ''On the other hand,
we must ensure that the most vulnerable groups of our users receive sound
support and protection.''

But how can we offer people -- adults and teens alike -- anonymity without
encouraging bad behavior? A lot of experiments are underway. A new social app
called Facefeed lets people share photos, but only allows people to discuss the
photos in a private message. Shots, a social app for selfies, has forgone a
comment system altogether. ''With comments, kids can be humiliated in front of a
large audience,'' said John Shahidi, a founder of Shots.

Yik Yak, which is similar to Secret and lets people post anonymously to their
friends, said last week that it was banning middle and high school students and
that it would disable the service around schools.

Yik Yak has reportedly been used to taunt students and make bomb threats,
raising concern among school authorities. Susan Opferman, the principal of Webb
Bridge Middle School in Alpharetta., Ga., recently warned parents in a letter:
''Yik Yak posts can be especially vicious and hurtful, since there is no way to
trace their source.''

To reduce negative comments, Secret has said that it is adding features that
detect when people's names are typed into in messages and warn those who would
include them to ''think before they post.'' Users also have the ability to ban
those who trash-talk others.

''The majority of the content on the app is positive and friendly,'' said Mr.
Bader-Wechseler, Secret's chief product and design lead. ''We have to be
realistic. We're living in a world that is not a utopia, and we need to make
sure we're taking all the right steps to make sure that the good outweighs the
evil.''

For now, Mr. Bader-Wechseler said, the company is learning what not to do when
the app does fall into the hands of children. But it's unclear if the app has
already been infused with the DNA of bullies and those bullied. And, if so, if
it's possible to change that.

I asked Mr. Terebin at Ask.fm if he had any advice for Secret and other
anonymous apps. He said these services should build moderating systems and
empower users to report bad behavior.

''This means that companies must invest in their safety protocols from the very
beginning,'' Mr. Terebin said.

Email: bilton@nytimes.com

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/03/23/name-calling-in-the-virtual-playground/

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secret is the latest social media platform to confront the
tendency of anonymous chat to provide cover for bad behavior. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
NICK BILTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            March 26, 2014 Wednesday

Law Firms Pressed to Tighten Defenses Against Hackers

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1191 words



HIGHLIGHT: Large American corporations are pressing their law firms to increase
cyber security to deter hackers from gaining access to confidential information.



A growing number of big corporate clients are demanding that their law firms
take more steps to guard against online intrusions that could compromise
sensitive information as global concerns about hacker threats mount.

Wall Street banks are pressing outside law firms to demonstrate that their
computer systems are employing top-tier technologies to detect and deter attacks
from hackers bent on getting their hands on corporate secrets either for their
own use or sale to others, said people briefed on the matter who spoke on the
condition of anonymity. Some financial institutions are asking law firms to fill
out lengthy 60-page questionnaires detailing their cybersecurity measures, while
others are doing on-site inspections.

Other companies are asking law firms to stop putting files on portable thumb
drives, emailing them to nonsecure iPads or working on computers linked to a
shared network in countries like China and Russia where hacking is prevalent,
said the people briefed on the matter. In some cases, banks and companies are
threatening to withhold legal work from law firms that balk at the increased
scrutiny or requesting that firms add insurance coverage for data breaches to
their malpractice policies.

"It is forcing the law firms to clean up their acts," said Daniel B. Garrie,
executive managing partner with Law & Forensics, a computer security consulting
firm that specializes in working with law firms. "When people say, 'We won't pay
you money because your security stinks,' that carries weight."

The vulnerability of American law firms to online attacks is a particular
concern to law enforcement agencies because the firms are a rich repository of
corporate secrets, business strategies and intellectual property. One concern is
the potential for hackers to access information about potential corporate deals
before they get announced. Law enforcement has long worried that law firms are
not doing enough to guard against intrusions by hackers.

In 2011, the Federal Bureau of Investigation began organizing meetings with the
managing partners of top law firms in New York and other major American cities
to highlight the problem of computer security and corporate espionage,
especially for law firms with offices in foreign countries like China and
Russia.

Despite those meetings, F.B.I. officials and security experts say, law firms
remain a weak link when it comes to online security. But the push from corporate
clients may have more impact on changing law firm attitudes than anything else.

"Clients are putting more restrictions on law firms about things to do to
protect themselves," said Mary E. Galligan, an executive in the cyber-risk
services division of Deloitte & Touche and the former special agent in charge of
cyber and special operations for the New York office of the F.B.I. "It is being
driven by victims of hackers, and they don't want to be victims again. It's just
good business sense."

When she was with the F.B.I., Ms. Galligan organized the meetings with managing
partners of law firms to impress on them the need to better police their
computer systems. The first meeting, held in New York in November 2011, was
attended by top lawyers from nearly 200 firms. Over the next two years, Ms.
Galligan said, she arranged half a dozen smaller meetings with law firm
executives around the country. She said it had taken awhile, but she saw law
firms being more proactive about computer security in large part because of the
demand from clients.

Companies are prodding law firms on security at a time of overall rising concern
about hacker attacks like the information breach at Target last year, when the
retailer said at least 40 million credit and debit card accounts were
compromised. Financial regulators are also requiring banks to make sure that
vendors they rely on, like law firms, are vigilant when it comes to dealing with
hackers and other online intruders.

"The public and private sectors must be riveted in lock step in addressing these
threats," Mary Jo White, the chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, said Wednesday at a round-table discussion on the obligations of
public companies to disclose online attacks. The discussion brought together
more than two dozen security experts from the federal government and the
financial services sector.

Still, spying by governments both at home and abroad and how that could involve
a breach of client confidence is also a concern for businesses. In February, The
New York Times reported that communications between lawyers at Mayer Brown, a
big Chicago-based law firm, and officials with the Indonesian government were
intercepted by an Australian intelligence agency that had ties to the National
Security Agency, the federal agency that has been under siege for nearly a year
because of its domestic spying program. The American Bar Association, with
nearly 400,000 members, sent a letter to the N.S.A. to say it was incumbent on
the security agency to make sure the principle of attorney-client privilege was
protected.

Stuart Pattison, a senior vice president with Endurance Specialty Holdings, an
underwriter of professional liability insurance coverage for law firms, said the
main concern for the F.B.I. was state-sponsored hackers breaching a law firm
computer system to tap into information about what American corporations were
doing. He said that a few law firms had recently inquired about obtaining an
added level of insurance coverage for data breaches in response to a demand from
their corporate clients.

Despite the concern, it's hard to gauge just how vulnerable law firms are to
attacks from hackers. There are few rules requiring firms to make public any
breaches, and because the firms have little direct interaction with consumers,
there is no need for them to publicly report a hacking incident the way a bank
or a retailer would. In 2012, Mandiant, a security consulting firm, put out a
report estimating that 80 percent of the 100 largest American law firms had some
malicious computer breach in 2011. Actual reports of confidential information
hacked from a law firm computer system and later winding up on some overseas
server are rare, however.

Representatives for several large law firms, all of whom declined to discuss the
topic publicly, said privately that the threat assessments from the F.B.I. and
consulting firms were overstated. The law firm representatives said hacker
attacks were usually email "phishing" schemes seeking to access personal
information or account passwords, the kind of intrusions that have become
commonplace and are easily contained.

But Vincent I. Polley, a lawyer and co-author of recent book for the American
Bar Association on cybersecurity, said many law firms were not even aware they
had been hacked. He said a lot of law firm managers were in denial about the
potential threat.

"A lot of firms have been hacked, and like most entities that are hacked, they
don't know that for some period of time," said Mr. Polley. "Sometimes, it may
not be discovered for a minute or months and even years."


     ·    Regulators and Hackers Put Bitcoin to the Test
     ·    Adding Up the Costs of Data Breaches


LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 27, 2014 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Law Firms Are Pressed an Security for Data

BYLINE: By MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1193 words


A growing number of big corporate clients are demanding that their law firms
take more steps to guard against online intrusions that could compromise
sensitive information as global concerns about hacker threats mount.

Wall Street banks are pressing outside law firms to demonstrate that their
computer systems are employing top-tier technologies to detect and deter attacks
from hackers bent on getting their hands on corporate secrets either for their
own use or sale to others, said people briefed on the matter who spoke on the
condition of anonymity. Some financial institutions are asking law firms to fill
out lengthy 60-page questionnaires detailing their cybersecurity measures, while
others are doing on-site inspections.

Other companies are asking law firms to stop putting files on portable thumb
drives, emailing them to nonsecure iPads or working on computers linked to a
shared network in countries like China and Russia where hacking is prevalent,
said the people briefed on the matter. In some cases, banks and companies are
threatening to withhold legal work from law firms that balk at the increased
scrutiny or requesting that firms add insurance coverage for data breaches to
their malpractice policies.

''It is forcing the law firms to clean up their acts,'' said Daniel B. Garrie,
executive managing partner with Law & Forensics, a computer security consulting
firm that specializes in working with law firms. ''When people say, 'We won't
pay you money because your security stinks,' that carries weight.''

The vulnerability of American law firms to online attacks is a particular
concern to law enforcement agencies because the firms are a rich repository of
corporate secrets, business strategies and intellectual property. One concern is
the potential for hackers to access information about potential corporate deals
before they get announced. Law enforcement has long worried that law firms are
not doing enough to guard against intrusions by hackers.

In 2011, the Federal Bureau of Investigation began organizing meetings with the
managing partners of top law firms in New York and other major American cities
to highlight the problem of computer security and corporate espionage,
especially for law firms with offices in foreign countries like China and
Russia.

Despite those meetings, F.B.I. officials and security experts say, law firms
remain a weak link when it comes to online security. But the push from corporate
clients may have more impact on changing law firm attitudes than anything else.

''Clients are putting more restrictions on law firms about things to do to
protect themselves,'' said Mary E. Galligan, an executive in the cyber-risk
services division of Deloitte & Touche and the former special agent in charge of
cyber and special operations for the New York office of the F.B.I. ''It is being
driven by victims of hackers, and they don't want to be victims again. It's just
good business sense.''

When she was with the F.B.I., Ms. Galligan organized the meetings with managing
partners of law firms to impress on them the need to better police their
computer systems. The first meeting, held in New York in November 2011, was
attended by top lawyers from nearly 200 firms. Over the next two years, Ms.
Galligan said, she arranged half a dozen smaller meetings with law firm
executives around the country. She said it had taken awhile, but she saw law
firms being more proactive about computer security in large part because of the
demand from clients.

Companies are prodding law firms on security at a time of overall rising concern
about hacker attacks like the information breach at Target last year, when the
retailer said at least 40 million credit and debit card accounts were
compromised. Financial regulators are also requiring banks to make sure that
vendors they rely on, like law firms, are vigilant when it comes to dealing with
hackers and other online intruders.

''The public and private sectors must be riveted in lock step in addressing
these threats,'' Mary Jo White, the chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, said Wednesday at a round-table discussion on the obligations of
public companies to disclose online attacks. The discussion brought together
more than two dozen security experts from the federal government and the
financial services sector.

Still, spying by governments both at home and abroad and how that could involve
a breach of client confidence is also a concern for businesses. In February, The
New York Times reported that communications between lawyers at Mayer Brown, a
big Chicago-based law firm, and officials with the Indonesian government were
intercepted by an Australian intelligence agency that had ties to the National
Security Agency, the federal agency that has been under siege for nearly a year
because of its domestic spying program. The American Bar Association, with
nearly 400,000 members, sent a letter to the N.S.A. to say it was incumbent on
the security agency to make sure the principle of attorney-client privilege was
protected.

Stuart Pattison, a senior vice president with Endurance Specialty Holdings, an
underwriter of professional liability insurance coverage for law firms, said the
main concern for the F.B.I. was state-sponsored hackers breaching a law firm
computer system to tap into information about what American corporations were
doing. He said that a few law firms had recently inquired about obtaining an
added level of insurance coverage for data breaches in response to a demand from
their corporate clients.

Despite the concern, it's hard to gauge just how vulnerable law firms are to
attacks from hackers. There are few rules requiring firms to make public any
breaches, and because the firms have little direct interaction with consumers,
there is no need for them to publicly report a hacking incident the way a bank
or a retailer would. In 2012, Mandiant, a security consulting firm, put out a
report estimating that 80 percent of the 100 largest American law firms had some
malicious computer breach in 2011. Actual reports of confidential information
hacked from a law firm computer system and later winding up on some overseas
server are rare, however.

Representatives for several large law firms, all of whom declined to discuss the
topic publicly, said privately that the threat assessments from the F.B.I. and
consulting firms were overstated. The law firm representatives said hacker
attacks were usually email ''phishing'' schemes seeking to access personal
information or account passwords, the kind of intrusions that have become
commonplace and are easily contained.

But Vincent I. Polley, a lawyer and co-author of recent book for the American
Bar Association on cybersecurity, said many law firms were not even aware they
had been hacked. He said a lot of law firm managers were in denial about the
potential threat.

''A lot of firms have been hacked, and like most entities that are hacked, they
don't know that for some period of time,'' said Mr. Polley. ''Sometimes, it may
not be discovered for a minute or months and even years.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/03/26/law-firms-scrutinized-as-hacking-increase
s/

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Daniel B. Garrie, above, of the computer security consulting
firm Law & Forensics, said demands from corporate clients  were ''forcing the
law firms to clean up their acts.'' Below, Mary E. Galligan, an executive at
Deloitte & Touche. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B11)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            March 27, 2014 Thursday

Morning Agenda: A Failure for Citigroup

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2510 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Federal Reserve rejected Citigroup&#8217;s capital plans. | The
chief executive of King Digital Entertainment remained optimistic after shares
of his company fell nearly 16 percent on their first day of public trading. |
Corporations are pressing law firms to tighten their cyber security. | Reverse
mortgages are stinging heirs.


 CITIGROUP FAILS FED STRESS TEST  |  For the second time in three years, the
Federal Reserve rejected Citigroup's plans to manage its capital, an
embarrassing blow that could derail the plans of Michael Corbat, the bank's
chief executive, to rehabilitate the bank, Michael Corkery writes in DealBook.
Citigroup was the only one of the nation's top five banks that failed to
persuade the Fed to bless its plans for shareholder payouts.

The Fed did not give many details behind its rejection in a report released on
Wednesday, but did cite concerns about the bank's financial projections for its
sprawling operations. It also denied the bank's plan to increase dividends and
repurchase stock. The Fed's rebuke was particularly notable not only because
most of Citigroup's large peers had their plans accepted, but also because the
bank's capital cushion - a key measure of a bank's strength - comfortably
exceeded the regulatory minimum.

The Fed's decision is already stirring calls to break up Citi's far-flung
business, echoing concerns voiced by investors and analysts after the discovery
of a $400 million fraud in the Citigroup's Mexican unit last month. The Fed's
action is also prompting calls for changes at the top of the bank's management.
In addition to Citigroup, the Fed rejected the capital plans of the American
units of three international banks: HSBC, Santander of Spain and the Royal Bank
of Scotland, which operates under the Citizens Bank brand in the United States.

The Fed approved the capital plans of 25 other banks,  including those of Bank
of America, which  announced a dividend increase for the first time since 2009.
The bank also agreed on Wednesday to pay $6.3 billion to settle a lawsuit
arising out of troubled mortgage-backed securities it put together and sold to
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac before the financial crisis, Matthew Goldstein writes
in DealBook. The conclusion came on the same day as Bank of America and its
former chief executive, Kenneth D. Lewis, reached a deal to resolve another
lawsuit arising from the financial crisis.

KING CHIEF LOOKS AHEAD AFTER DISAPPOINTING STOCK DEBUT  |  Though his company's
stock slumped nearly 16 percent on its first day of public trading, Riccardo
Zacconi, the chief executive and co-founder of King Digital Entertainment -
which makes the popular game Candy Crush Saga - remained confident about his
company's long-term value. But the drop in King's stock, which closed at $19 a
share, nevertheless disappointed investors, William Alden writes in DealBook.
King's performance was the worst first-day performance of an initial public
offering so far this year.

With the popularity of Candy Crush already on the decline, King has insisted
that its other games are gaining users. But the big question for investors now
is whether the company, which derives 78 percent of its total gross bookings
from a single game, is more than a one-hit wonder. King's future growth depends
on its ability to build on its Candy Crush success. For his part, Mr. Zacconi
said he was "not focused on the short term," and was "looking forward to getting
back to work in the studio."

LAW FIRMS PRESSED TO TIGHTEN CYBER SECURITY  |  As global concerns about hacker
threats rise, a growing number of corporate clients, including Wall Street
banks, are demanding that their law firms take more steps to guard against
online intrusions that could compromise sensitive information, Matthew Goldstein
writes in DealBook.

The Federal Bureau of Investigation began organizing meetings with top law firms
in 2011 to highlight the problem of computer security, but companies are now
taking the issue into their own hands, pressing outside law firms to prove that
their computer systems are employing top-tier technologies to detect and deter
online attacks. Others are asking law firms to stop putting files on portable
thumb drives, emailing them to nonsecure iPads or working on computers linked to
a shared network in countries like China and Russia where hacking is prevalent.

Mr. Goldstein writes: "Companies are prodding law firms on security at a time of
overall rising concern about hacker attacks like the information breach at
Target last year, when the retailer said at least 40 million credit and debit
card accounts were compromised. Financial regulators are also requiring banks to
make sure that vendors they rely on, like law firms, are vigilant when it comes
to dealing with hackers and other online intruders."

ON THE AGENDA  |  The pending home sales index for February is out at 10 a.m.
Sandra Pianalto, the president of the Cleveland Fed, speaks at 8:30 a.m. in
Dayton, Ohio. Charles L. Evans, the president of the Chicago Fed, gives a speech
at 9:30 p.m. in Hong Kong. Microsoft is expected to formally unveil an iPad
version of Office, the company's suite of software programs, in San Francisco.
Benjamin M. Lawsky, New York's top banking regulator, is on CNBC at 11 a.m. The
N.C.A.A. men's basketball tournament Sweet Sixteen round begins. President Obama
meets with Pope Francis at the Vatican.

REVERSE MORTGAGES MAY STING HEIRS  |  Across the country, a growing number of
baby boomers are learning that their parents' reverse mortgages are now
threatening their own inheritances, Jessica Silver-Greenberg writes in DealBook.
These reverse mortgages - which allow homeowners 62 and older to borrow money
against the value of their homes that do not need to be paid back until they
move out or die - were supposed to help their elderly parents stay in their
houses. But, as it turns out, these same loans can come up with a harsh sting
for their heirs.

Under federal rules, survivors are supposed to be offered the option to settle
the loan for a percentage of the full amount. But instead, reverse mortgage
companies are increasingly threatening to foreclose unless heirs pay the
mortgages in full. Some lenders are moving to foreclose just weeks after the
borrower dies, and heirs say they are plunged into a bureaucratic mess as they
try to get lenders to provide them with details about how to keep their families
homes. For their part, reverse mortgage lenders argue that they are abiding by
federal rules, saying their goal is to avert foreclosures. Used correctly, they
say, these loans can help older homeowners get cash to pay for retirement.

Ms. Silver-Greenberg writes: "There is no data on how many heirs are facing
foreclosure because of reverse mortgages. But interviews with elder care
advocates, the housing counselors and heirs, suggest that it is a growing
problem already affecting an estimated tens of thousands of people. And it is
one that threatens to ensnare future generations, as older Americans
increasingly turn to their homes for cash."

 |  Contact: @melbournecoal | E-mail

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

Mergers & Acquisitions »

Yahoo Japan to Buy eAccess From SoftBank  |  The $3.2 billion deal for the
mobile Internet service provider represents a reshuffling of assets within the
corporate family of SoftBank, which owns about 42 percent of Yahoo Japan.
DealBook »

Babcock International to Pay $1.53 Billion For Spanish Aviation Firm  |  The
British engineering services company will acquire Avincis from the private
equity firms Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Investindustrial Group. The deal
includes the assumption of £705 million in debt.
DealBook »

Crowdfunders of the Maker of Oculus Rift Denounce a Facebook Buyout  |  Oculus
VR got its start on Kickstarter, raising $2.4 million, and some donors want
their money back, The New York Times writes.
NEW YORK TIMES

Facebook's Alternate Financial Reality  |  A $165 billion market value and
dual-class share structure allow Mark Zuckerberg to spend the company's stock on
little more than a hunch, writes Richard Beales of Reuters Breakingviews.
DealBook »

After Facebook's $2 Billion Deal, Some Virtual Unreality in the Stock Market  |
Shares of two relatively unknown companies, Oculus Innovative Sciences and
Oculus VisionTech, surged on Wednesday, possibly benefiting from a case of
mistaken identity among investors.
DealBook »

Brazilian Telecommunications Deal Clears Hurdle  |  Regulators have ruled that
Oi can proceed with its shareholder meeting scheduled for Thursday and vote on a
capital increase that it says is needed ahead of a planned merger with Portugal
Telecom.
DealBook »

Standard Life to Pay About $645 Million for Asset Manager  |  Standard Life,
based in Edinburgh, will acquire Ignis Asset Management from Phoenix Group
Holdings in a deal that will increase its investment capabilities and broaden
its third-party client base.
DealBook »

Dish's Ergen in Contact With DirecTV Chief About Merger  |  Charles Ergen, the
chairman of Dish Network, is said to have approached Michael White, the chief
executive of DirecTV, to discuss a merger of the two satellite television
companies, Bloomberg News reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the
situation.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

INVESTMENT BANKING »

UBS Said to Suspend Six Traders in Currency Review  |  The Swiss bank has placed
on leave three traders in New York, two in Zurich and one in Singapore as part
of its internal review into potential manipulation of the currency markets,
according to people familiar with the matter.
DealBook »

Austrian Bank Exposed to Russia Reports Profit Increase  |  Raiffeisen Bank
International, an Austrian lender with large holdings in Ukraine and Russia,
said net profit was up 9 percent to about $201 million, though the gain was due
to a tax refund. Its problem loans mounted.
DealBook »

Britain Gains Renminbi Trading Deal  |  The agreement by the Bank of England and
the People's Bank of China is the first outside of Asia and a victory for the
British government in its efforts to make London a leading Western hub for
Chinese trading.
DealBook »

Scandal-Hit British Banks Look to 'Weirdy Beardy' for Help  |  Roger Steare, a
professor known as "weirdy beardy," has been hired by several British banks,
including Barclays and the Royal Bank of Scotland, to help overhaul their
corporate culture, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

PRIVATE EQUITY »

Carlyle's Rubenstein Plays Down Effect of Leverage Guidelines  |  David M.
Rubenstein, the co-founder of the private equity firm Carlyle Group, said on
Wednesday at a conference that a recent effort by regulators to curb excessive
lending to fund corporate takeovers was "not really a problem," The Wall Street
Journal writes.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

Energy Future Trying to Reach Debt Restructuring Deal  |  Energy Future
Holdings, the Texas utility at the center of an enormous private equity buyout,
is in last-minute negotiations with creditors in an attempt to reach a debt
restructuring deal before it seeks Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, Bloomberg
News reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the situation.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

Advent Said to Seek $2 Billion Latin American Fund  |  The private equity firm
Advent International is said to have indicated plans to seek about $2 billion
for its latest fund, which would be used to increase its investments in Latin
America, Bloomberg Businessweek writes, citing unidentified people familiar with
the situation.
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK

HEDGE FUNDS »

Activist Investor Calls for Darden to Consider a New C.E.O.  |  A new letter
from the Barington Capital Group is intended to turn up the heat on the parent
company of Olive Garden and Red Lobster, which has been facing pressure for
months.
DealBook »

Boston Fund Manager Plans New AS Roma Stadium  |  James Pallotta, the chairman
of the hedge fund Raptor Group, has revealed plans to build a 52,500-seat
stadium for AS Roma, the first Italian soccer team to come under foreign
ownership, The Financial Times writes. Mr. Pallotta acquired a controlling stake
in the team in 2012.
FINANCIAL TIMES

Hedge Funds Prepare for More Sanctions Against Russia  |  Hedge fund managers
are making changes to their funds and preparing for wider sanctions against
Russia, which could have a more severe effect on markets, CNBC reports.
CNBC

I.P.O./OFFERINGS »

Citic Group Negotiating a Listing in Hong Kong  |  The Citic Group, one of
China's biggest conglomerates, has signed a preliminary cash-and-stock agreement
to sell substantially all of its operating assets to its Hong Kong-listed unit,
Citic Pacific.
DealBook »

Britain Pares Its Stake in Lloyds Bank, But R.B.S. Remains a Tough Sell  |  The
British government sold a 7.87 percent stake in the Lloyds Banking Group for
about $6.9 billion. But it seems increasingly unlikely that the government will
begin paring its stake in Royal Bank of Scotland anytime soon.
DealBook »

Oracle's Hurd Tickled by Box I.P.O. Valuation  |  Mark Hurd, the co-president of
Oracle, indicated in a segment on Fox Business Network that he thought the
financial numbers related to Box's initial public offering were amusing,
MarketWatch reports. "I love hearing that report about the profit and loss
statement and the amount of losses and the valuation that brings," he said.
MARKETWATCH

VENTURE CAPITAL »

Alibaba Enters the Movie Business With a Kind of Crowdfunding  |  The Chinese
e-commerce giant Alibaba's most recent push into innovative finance gives
investors, for as little as $16, a small role in getting films produced.
DealBook »

Start-Up Unveils Bitcoin Payments Product  |  The payment systems product from
the start-up Circle Internet Financial allows consumers to deposit dollars into
an account, which converts the money into Bitcoin and stores it remotely.
DealBook »

Crowdfunding Site CircleUp Raises $14 Million  |  The fresh capital underscores
the excitement in Silicon Valley over new ways of raising money.
DealBook »

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

Taxes Won't Kill Bitcoin, but Tax Reporting Might  |  In the Standard Deduction
column, Victor Fleischer examines how the I.R.S. expects individuals and
businesses to treat Bitcoins for tax purposes.
DealBook »

Mt. Gox Seeks Advice From Japanese Police  |  It is unclear whether the Tokyo
police will start a formal investigation into Mt. Gox, the Bitcoin exchange that
filed for bankruptcy last month.
DealBook »

Britain Fines Santander for 'Failings' in Its Advice to Clients  |  The
Financial Conduct Authority of Britain said the Spanish bank Santander had
"serious failings" in how it gave financial advice to consumers in its British
branches. Santander has since overhauled its investment services.
DealBook »

Swiss Financial Regulator Names Former UBS Officer as Chief Executive  |  Mark
Branson, a former chief financial officer of UBS's wealth management and Swiss
bank division, has been named to the top post at the Swiss Financial Market
Supervisory Authority.
DealBook »

Proposed Housing Bill Would Create a Co-op of Mortgage Lenders  |  The proposal
would make the lending system more like a public utility by creating a co-op of
lenders that would be the sole issuer of mortgage-backed securities guaranteed
by the government, The New York Times writes.
NEW YORK TIMES

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 28, 2014 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Recordings, Posted Online, Rattle Officials in Turkey

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO; Sebnem Arsu and Ceylan Yeginsu contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 664 words


ISTANBUL -- If any meeting was meant to be private, it was this one: the top spy
chief, the foreign minister and his deputy, and a top military official
discussing secret plans for possible military action in Syria.

But in Turkey little, it seems, is beyond the skills of those who have been
wiretapping and bugging the conversations of high-level officials and releasing
the recordings on social media.

On Thursday morning, a recording was posted on YouTube in which the officials
were heard discussing a plot to establish a justification for military strikes
in Syria. One option that is said to have been discussed was orchestrating an
attack on the Tomb of Suleyman Shah, the grandfather of the founder of the
Ottoman Empire, which is in northern Syria and is considered by the government
here to be Turkish territory.

By Thursday afternoon, the Foreign Ministry building in Ankara, Turkey's capital
-- where the secret meeting was held -- was being swept for surreptitious
listening devices, and the government had moved to block access to YouTube, just
a week after a similar ban on Twitter, which has also been a conduit for the
leaking of documents and telephone conversations.

The government, citing national security concerns, also banned news coverage of
the contents of the meeting, and officials have suggested that a broader
crackdown on the Internet may be coming.

While Turkey has seen a steady flow of leaks in recent months -- many of them
alleging corruption by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his inner circle
-- the latest leak was considered one of the most dramatic, as it struck at the
heart of Turkey's national security apparatus and suggested a high level of
sophistication for those behind the leaks.

Mr. Erdogan is engaged in a power struggle with the followers of Fetullah Gulen,
a popular Muslim cleric who lives in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania and
whose sympathizers are said to occupy positions within the police and judiciary.

At an election rally on Thursday, Mr. Erdogan said, ''Publishing these tapes,
revealing details from a national security meeting, is villainous, dishonest.''

In a statement, the Foreign Ministry acknowledged the security meeting but said
that ''certain parts'' of the recording had been distorted, though it did not
say which parts. The ministry confirmed that the officials discussed measures to
be taken to defend the tomb in Syria, but did not acknowledge that Turkey was
looking to provoke an attack to justify a Turkish military operation.

The leak came before a series of tough elections that will determine the future
for Mr. Erdogan and his Islamist-rooted Justice and Development Party.

The ministry statement said: ''This incident reveals the level of cyber and
electronic threats posed against our country. The rings of treason behind this
act are enemies of our state and nation.''

In a later statement, the foreign minister, Ahmet Davutoglu, who was heard on
the recording, said, according to the semiofficial Anadolu News Agency,
''listening to the phones of firstly, our prime minister, and then all of us --
ministers, state officials, assigned to highly critical duties -- is clearly an
open declaration of war against the Turkish Republic and its nation.''

Mr. Davutoglu's language suggested a harsher crackdown on the followers of Mr.
Gulen by the government. Already, the government has shuffled thousands of
police officers, and hundreds of prosecutors, into lesser posts. A broader
operation could include the arrests of so-called Gulenists within the state, as
is widely expected.

By Thursday night, YouTube was still widely accessible in Turkey, despite the
stated ban. According to an official in the prime minister's office, YouTube was
''banned given concerns about national security and the urgency of the
situation.''

In a post on Twitter on Thursday evening, Neelie Kroes, the vice president of
the European Commission, called the YouTube ban ''another desperate and
depressing move in Turkey.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/28/world/europe/high-level-leaks-rattle-turkey-of
ficials.html

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                             March 28, 2014 Friday

Weekend Reading: March Madness, Wall St. Edition II

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1037 words



HIGHLIGHT: This week we look at some second, and third round matches in the Wall
street edition of March Madness.


This week we look at some second, and third round matches in the Wall street
edition of March Madness.

As promised, here are completely unscientific results of recent court battles,
mergers and financial fights.

A look back on our reporting of the past week's highs and lows in finance.

FRIDAY

Memphis and Cardinals Partner in Deal to Revitalize Ballpark | The City of
Memphis tapped the municipal bond market to finance the $19 million purchase of
AutoZone Park, the home of the Memphis Redbirds, a farm team that the St. Louis
Cardinals will buy for $15 million. DealBook »

THURSDAY

Failing Stress Test Is Another Stumble for Citigroup | The broader question
hanging over Citigroup is one that has dogged it since it was created nearly two
decades ago: that the bank may be simply too big to manage.  DealBook »

I.P.O. to Cut Ill-Fitting Ad Business From CBS | "Outdoor doesn't quite fit with
us because it's sales, but not content," said Leslie Moonves, chief executive of
CBS. "The synergies didn't really exist." DealBook »

Ex-Finance Director of Failed Law Firm Says Its Chairman Feared Audit  | Francis
J. Canellas, the former finance chief of the bankrupt law firm, spoke to New
York prosecutors after pleading guilty this year to taking part in a scheme to
manipulate the firm's financial statements. DealBook »

A Nasty Corporate Divorce, With Insults Traded on Twitter | The split between
Bumi, a London-listed coal company, and its co-founders is turning unpleasant
and public, with a war of words hurled across social media. DealBook »

WEDNESDAY

Fed Rejects Citigroup's Payout Plans, Citing Concerns Over Capital | The Fed's
decision is prompting calls for another round of changes at the top of the
bank's management and questions over whether the bank should break up its
far-flung operations. DealBook »

Inheriting a Mortgage Pain | The loans that promised to help older people stay
in their homes in retirement are, in some cases, now pushing their children out.
DealBook »

Law Firms Are Pressed on Security for Data | Large American corporations are
pressing their law firms to increase cyber security to deter hackers from
gaining access to confidential information.  DealBook »

App Maker Buckles on First Day of Trading | After pricing at a midpoint that
still valued the company at $7 billion, the shares of King Digital had a
treacherous first day out, spiraling down almost 16 percent. DealBook »

Bank Agrees to Settle Mortgage Lawsuit | The lawsuit arose out of troubled
mortgage-backed securities that the bank cobbled together and sold to Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac in the run-up to the financial crisis. DealBook »

Alibaba to Make Movies With Crowdfunding Idea | The Chinese e-commerce giant
Alibaba's most recent push into innovative finance gives investors, for as
little as $16, a small role in getting films produced. DealBook »

Britain Gains Renminbi Trading Deal | The agreement by the Bank of England and
the People's Bank of China is the first outside of Asia and a victory for the
British government in its efforts to make London a leading Western hub for
Chinese trading.  DealBook »

TUESDAY

Facebook in $2 Billion Deal for Virtual Reality Company | Facebook sees the
future - a 3-D virtual world where you feel as if you are hanging out with your
friends rather than staring at their pictures. The New York Times »

Heir Apparent Is Leaving JPMorgan Chase | The exit of a top banker shows how how
easy it is for powerful private equity firms with less regulatory burdens to
poach executives from big banks. DealBook »

For Carlyle, Recruiting an Outsider Is Not Unusual | The company hired Michael
J. Cavanagh of JPMorgan Chase to be co-president with Glenn A. Youngkin,
continuing a trend of going outside the firm for hiring. DealBook »

I.R.S. Takes a Position on Bitcoin: It's Property | Some financial experts view
the move as a way to push Bitcoin away from the fringes and into the mainstream
financial system.  DealBook »

King Digital Set to Trade At $22.50, A Midpoint | It will remain to be seen if
investors are convinced that the company, valued at more than $7 billion when it
starts trading on Wednesday, can come up with new hits. DealBook »

Federal Court Rejects Gupta's Appeal for New Trial | A federal appeals court
found that there was "ample evidence" that Rajat K. Gupta took part in a wider
criminal conspiracy.  DealBook »

A Start-Up Is Offering an Online Way to Invest in Hollywood | The JOBS Act,
which opened up new ways for companies to raise money, will be used by Junction.
DealBook »

MONDAY

Jury Decides 5 Employees of Madoff Knew Score | A federal jury in Manhattan has
found five associates of the convicted swindler Bernard L. Madoff guilty on 31
counts of aiding one of the largest Ponzi schemes in history. DealBook »

Hurt in Crisis, TPG Pursues Smaller Deals | The private equity firm is taking a
new approach, moving beyond the gigantic acquisitions and, instead, looking more
at buying minority stakes. DealBook »

DealBook Column: A Question of What's a Reasonable Reward  | A money manager
claims Coca-Cola allocated as much as $24 billion toward stock-based rewards for
its senior people. DealBook »

In Battle of Billionaires, Icahn Gains Three Seats on the Herbalife Board | The
nutritional supplements company Herbalife will nominate three directors proposed
by Carl C. Icahn, allowing its biggest shareholder five seats on the board.
DealBook »

Under Scrutiny, Top JPMorgan Chase Executive in China to Leave | Fang Fang, the
bank's chief executive for China and a focus of a federal bribery investigation
in the United States, announced his desire to retire in an internal memo sent to
staff. DealBook »

Having Identified Blogger, Hedge Fund Drops Lawsuit | Having discovered the
identity of "Valuable Insights," David Einhorn, head of Greenlight Capital,
considers the matter resolved. The firm did not name the blogger. DealBook »

SUNDAY

Data Firm Actifio Hits $1 Billion Value Mark | Actifio has announce that it
raised $100 million in new financing, valuing the entire company at $1 billion.
DealBook »

WEEK IN VERSE

[Video: Watch on YouTube.]

'Warm Water' | Stressed out, Citigroup? Chill out with the soothing sound of
Banks. YouTube »

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 29, 2014 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hagel Seeks Peace Pact for the Digital Realm

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 534 words


WASHINGTON -- Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, in his first lengthy comments on
the Pentagon's growing mission in computer-network warfare, said Friday that the
United States does not seek to ''militarize'' cyberspace, and pledged that the
Defense Department would show restraint in its global operations -- if other
nations do the same.

In the same speech, though, Mr. Hagel said the Pentagon planned to more than
triple its staff devoted to the area in the next few years, and spoke of
increasing the country's defenses against computer-network attacks.

Cybersecurity, he said, is falling behind the country's reliance on cyberspace,
as the rise of destructive malware has ushered in a ''new reality'' of steady,
continuing and aggressive attacks on private and government computer networks.

Mr. Hagel's dual messages of attack and restraint, to commemorate the retirement
of Gen. Keith B. Alexander, who has overseen both the military's Cyber Command
and the intelligence community's National Security Agency, are bound to be a
tough sell to foreign leaders, given debate over widespread N.S.A. surveillance
and recent news reports that the agency penetrated a Chinese telecommunications
giant it saw as a security threat.

The issue will doubtless come up when Mr. Hagel heads to Beijing in a week to
discuss a range of military and security issues with his Chinese counterparts.

''Our government is promoting the very qualities of the Internet -- integrity,
reliability and openness -- that have made it a catalyst for freedom and
prosperity in the United States and around the world,'' Mr. Hagel said.

Before Mr. Hagel's speech, a senior Pentagon official said the defense secretary
was seeking to de-escalate tension with Beijing in advance of his trip.

The official, speaking on standard governmental rules of anonymity to discuss
the thinking behind a cabinet secretary's remarks, said that the United States
was seeking to be ''more transparent'' about its goals and missions in
cyberspace.

The New York Times and Der Spiegel reported this week that even as American
officials were expressing fears that Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications
giant, would create so-called back doors in its equipment that could allow the
Chinese military or Beijing-based hackers to steal corporate and government
secrets, the N.S.A. was creating its own back doors directly into Huawei's
networks.

According to N.S.A. documents provided by the former contractor Edward J.
Snowden, the agency pried its way into the servers in Huawei's sealed
headquarters in Shenzhen.

Mr. Hagel did not address Huawei in his speech, but he said the United States
would ''maintain an approach of restraint to any cyberoperations outside of U.S.
government networks.''

He added that ''we are urging other nations to do the same.''

Defense Department officials said they are recruiting talent to work on
cybersecurity both within and outside the Pentagon.

By 2016, Mr. Hagel said, the Defense Department should have 6,000 professionals
in the area. By the end of this year, Defense Department officials expect to
have 1,800.

President Obama has nominated Vice Adm. Michael S. Rogers to replace General
Alexander at both the N.S.A. and Cyber Command.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/29/us/politics/hagel-seeks-peace-pact-for-the-dig
ital-realm.html

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 7, 2014 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Tries Candor to Assure China on Cyberattacks

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words


WASHINGTON -- In the months before Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel's arrival in
Beijing on Monday, the Obama administration quietly held an extraordinary
briefing for the Chinese military leadership on a subject officials have rarely
discussed in public: the Pentagon's emerging doctrine for defending against
cyberattacks against the United States -- and for using its cybertechnology
against adversaries, including the Chinese.

The idea was to allay Chinese concerns about plans to more than triple the
number of American cyberwarriors to 6,000 by the end of 2016, a force that will
include new teams the Pentagon plans to deploy to each military combatant
command around the world. But the hope was to prompt the Chinese to give
Washington a similar briefing about the many People's Liberation Army units that
are believed to be behind the escalating attacks on American corporations and
government networks.

So far, the Chinese have not reciprocated -- a point Mr. Hagel plans to make in
a speech at the P.L.A.'s National Defense University on Tuesday.

The effort, senior Pentagon officials say, is to head off what Mr. Hagel and his
advisers fear is the growing possibility of a fast-escalating series of
cyberattacks and counterattacks between the United States and China. This is a
concern especially at a time of mounting tensions over China's expanding claims
of control over what it argues are exclusive territories in the East and South
China Seas, and over a new air defense zone. In interviews, American officials
say their latest initiatives were inspired by Cold-War-era exchanges held with
the Soviets so that each side understood the ''red lines'' for employing nuclear
weapons against each other.

''Think of this in terms of the Cuban missile crisis,'' one senior Pentagon
official said. While the United States ''suffers attacks every day,'' he said,
''the last thing we would want to do is misinterpret an attack and escalate to a
real conflict.''

Mr. Hagel's concern is spurred by the fact that in the year since President
Obama explicitly brought up the barrage of Chinese-origin attacks on the United
States with his newly installed counterpart, President Xi Jinping, the pace of
those attacks has increased. Most continue to be aimed at stealing technology
and other intellectual property from Silicon Valley, military contractors and
energy firms. Many are believed to be linked to cyberwarfare units of the
People's Liberation Army acting on behalf of state-owned, or state-affiliated,
Chinese companies.

''To the Chinese, this isn't first and foremost a military weapon, it's an
economic weapon,'' said Laura Galante, a former Defense Intelligence Agency
cyberspecialist. She now works for the Mandiant division of FireEye, one of the
largest of the many cybersecurity firms seeking to neutralize attacks on
corporations from China and other countries, as well as criminal groups and
hackers.

Administration officials acknowledge that Mr. Hagel, on his first trip to China
as defense secretary, has a very difficult case to make, far more complicated
than last year. The Pentagon plans to spend $26 billion on cybertechnology over
the next five years -- much of it for defense of the military's networks, but
billions for developing offensive weapons -- and that sum does not include
budgets for the intelligence community's efforts in more covert operations. It
is one of the few areas, along with drones and Special Operations forces, that
are getting more investment at a time of overall Pentagon cutbacks.

Moreover, disclosures about America's own focus on cyberweaponry -- including
American-led attacks on Iran's nuclear infrastructure and National Security
Agency documents revealed in the trove taken by Edward J. Snowden, the former
agency contractor -- detail the degree to which the United States has engaged in
what the intelligence world calls ''cyberexploitation'' of targets in China.

The revelation by The New York Times and the German magazine Der Spiegel that
the United States has pierced the networks of Huawei, China's giant networking
and telecommunications company, prompted Mr. Xi to raise the issue with Mr.
Obama at a meeting in The Hague two weeks ago. The attack on Huawei, called
Operation Shotgiant, was intended to determine whether the company was a front
for the army, but also focused on learning how to get inside Huawei's networks
to conduct surveillance or cyberattacks against countries -- Iran, Cuba,
Pakistan and beyond -- that buy the Chinese-made equipment. Other cyberattacks
revealed in the documents focused on piercing China's major telecommunications
companies and wireless networks, particularly those used by the Chinese
leadership and its most sensitive military units.

Mr. Obama told the Chinese president that the United States, unlike China, did
not use its technological powers to steal corporate data and give it to its own
companies; its spying, one of Mr. Obama's aides later told reporters, is solely
for ''national security priorities.'' But to the Chinese, for whom national and
economic security are one, that argument carries little weight.

''We clearly don't occupy the moral high ground that we once thought we did,''
said one senior administration official.

For that reason, the disclosures changed the discussion between the top
officials at the Pentagon and the State Department and their Chinese
counterparts in quiet meetings intended to work out what one official called
''an understanding of rules of the road, norms of behavior,'' for China and the
United States.

The decision to conduct a briefing for the Chinese on American military doctrine
for the use of cyberweapons was a controversial one, not least because the Obama
administration has almost never done that for the American public, though
elements of the doctrine can be pieced together from statements by senior
officials and a dense ''Presidential Decision Directive'' on such activities
signed by Mr. Obama in 2012. (The White House released declassified excerpts at
the time; Mr. Snowden released the whole document.)

Mr. Hagel alluded to the doctrine a week ago when he went to the retirement
ceremony for Gen. Keith B. Alexander, the first military officer to jointly
command the N.S.A. and the military's Cyber Command. General Alexander was
succeeded last week by Adm. Michael S. Rogers, who as the head of the Navy's
Fleet Cyber Command was a central player in developing a corps of experts who
could conduct cyberwarfare alongside more traditional Navy forces.

''The United States does not seek to militarize cyberspace,'' Mr. Hagel said at
the ceremony, held at the N.S.A.'s headquarters at Fort Meade, Md. He went on to
describe a doctrine of ''minimal use'' of cyberweaponry against other states.
The statement was meant to assure other nations -- not just China -- that the
United States would not routinely use its growing arsenal against them.

In Beijing, the defense secretary ''is going to stress to the Chinese that we in
the military are going to be as transparent as possible,'' said Rear Adm. John
Kirby, the Pentagon press secretary, ''and we want the same openness and
transparency and restraint from them.''

Experts here and in China point out that a lot was left out of Mr. Hagel's
statement last week. The United States separates offensive operations of the
kind that disabled roughly 1,000 centrifuges in Iran's nuclear program,
America's best-known (and still unacknowledged) cyberattack against another
state, from the far more common computer-enabled espionage of the kind carried
out against the Chinese to gather information about a potential adversary.

''It's clear that cyberspace is already militarized, because we've seen
countries using cyber for military purposes for 15 years,'' said James Lewis, an
expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. ''The Chinese have
had offensive capabilities for years as well,'' he said, along with ''more than
a dozen countries that admit they are developing them.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/04/07/world/us-tries-candor-to-assure-china-on-cyber
attacks.html

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Xi Jinping of China and President Obama last month  in
The Hague. They discussed the issue of computer spying. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG
MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                        (The New York Times News Minute)

                              April 7, 2014 Monday

Times Minute | Cybersaber Rattling

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 25 words



HIGHLIGHT: Cyber relations between Washington and Beijing. Also on the Minute,
new tensions 20 years after Rwanda&#8217;s genocide, and survivalists meet at a
convention in Tulsa.


 In the Video


     ·    U.S. Tries Candor to Assure China on Cyberattackss
     ·    Portraits of Reconciliation
     ·    France to Shun Rwanda Genocide Ceremony After Kagame Accusations


LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                              April 7, 2014 Monday

Discounts for Starwood Suites in New York

BYLINE: ELAINE GLUSAC

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 196 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Starwood Hotels &#8220;Suite Week&#8221; program will offer
travelers discounts on suites at its New York City hotels.


Starwood Hotels in the New York City area will hold the first "Suite Week" April
15 to 29, offering 30 percent off the best available rates in suites at all of
its hotel brands.

Inspired by city-wide promotions such as Restaurant Week and Broadway Week, the
Starwood sale will allow travelers to book their rooms during the sale weeks -
actually two, despite the sale's name - for stays through March 31, 2015.

Selling suites boosts bookings of more expensive rooms at the 10 hotels
involved. But, as with regular reservations, no prepayment is required and
guests can cancel up to 24 hours in advance of their stay without a penalty.

To sweeten the deal, most of the hotels will offer freebies.

For example, the Chatwal is throwing in breakfast for two at the Lambs Club,
complimentary chocolates and a 20 percent discount on spa services; St. Regis
New York will offer use of its Bentley for trips around town; and the W New
York-Times Square plans to chip in two cocktails and discounted tickets to any
Broadway show.


     ·    Park Hyatt Flagship Is Set for New York
     ·    Check-In by Smartphone
     ·    Hotel Week Deals in New York
     ·    An Early Start for Cyber Deals
     ·    W Hotels Will Promote Human Rights Campaign


LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 9, 2014 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hagel Spars With Chinese Over Islands and Security

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1149 words


BEIJING -- The United States and China clashed over Japan on Tuesday as the
Chinese defense minister asserted that Beijing had ''indisputable sovereignty''
over a group of islands in the East China Sea and that his country's military
stood ready to protect its interests in territorial disputes.

The minister, Gen. Chang Wanquan, said that China would not be first to launch
an attack over the territorial dispute. But he accused Japan of ''confusing the
right with the wrong'' in its assertion of control over the disputed islands in
the East China Sea, which are known as the Senkaku in Japan and as the Diaoyu in
China.

''China has indisputable sovereignty over the Diaoyu Islands,'' General Chang
said. He added that on the issue of what he called ''territorial sovereignty,''
China would ''make no compromise, no concession, no treaty.''

He continued, ''The Chinese military can assemble as soon as summoned, fight any
battle and win.''

General Chang made his comments at a news conference with the United States
defense secretary, Chuck Hagel, after a morning of meetings at the Ministry of
National Defense. It is Mr. Hagel's first trip to China as defense secretary.

While both men sought to present their meetings as constructive, they espoused
divergent views on a number of issues, particularly the territorial dispute in
the East China Sea, and a similar dispute between China and the Philippines in
the South China Sea.

At one point, Mr. Hagel appeared impatient, wagging his finger. ''The
Philippines and Japan are longtime allies of the United States,'' he said. ''We
have mutual self-defense treaties with each of those countries,'' he continued,
adding that the United States was ''fully committed to those treaty
obligations.''

Mr. Hagel accused China of adding to tensions in the region by declaring an air
defense zone in the East China Sea with ''no collaboration, no consultation.''
Such moves, he warned, could ''eventually get to dangerous conflict.''

The exchange punctuated a visit that American defense officials had sought to
present as a long-awaited deepening of military relations between the countries.
On Monday, Mr. Hagel became the first foreign dignitary allowed on board a
Chinese aircraft carrier, and on Tuesday the United States and China announced
modest steps toward improving communications.

But there appeared to be no closing of the gaps on more contentious issues.

Mr. Hagel, for instance, called on China to be more open about its cyberwarfare
capabilities, which American officials have said Beijing uses for commercial
espionage.

Mr. Hagel portrayed the United States as transparent about its own capabilities
in telecommunications security, pointing to a recent briefing that the Defense
Department gave to Chinese officials on the Pentagon's doctrine for defending
against cyberattacks. ''More transparency will strengthen China-U.S.
relations,'' he said. ''Greater openness about cyber reduces the risk that
misunderstanding and misperception could lead to miscalculation.''

Beijing, American defense officials said, still has not responded to Mr. Hagel's
invitation to reciprocate with a briefing of its own.

General Chang stood impassively during Mr. Hagel's call for more openness on
cybersecurity. When it was his turn to talk, he said that ''the defense activity
of the People's Liberation Army in cyberspace abides'' by Chinese law. ''It will
not pose a threat to others,'' he added.

The disagreement with China over digital security issues puts Mr. Hagel in the
difficult position of arguing with Beijing over what is acceptable to spy on and
what is not. American officials have maintained that a barrage of attacks that
originated in China aimed at stealing technology and other intellectual property
from Silicon Valley and from military contractors and energy firms in the United
States. Many of those attacks have been linked to cyberwarfare units of the
People's Liberation Army, acting on behalf of state-owned, or state-affiliated,
Chinese companies.

But the United States has not always been transparent about cyberespionage,
either. Last month The New York Times and the German magazine Der Spiegel
reported that the United States had infiltrated the networks of Huawei, China's
networking and telecommunications giant. Additional disclosures about American
spying were revealed in National Security Agency documents leaked by Edward J.
Snowden, a former contractor at the agency.

After his meetings at the Defense Ministry, Mr. Hagel went to the National
Defense University in Beijing to give a speech and hold a question-and-answer
session with about 120 Chinese military officers. Most of the questions from the
audience centered on the Senkaku-Diaoyu dispute, as Chinese officers repeatedly
complained that American policy in the region favored Japan.

Late last year, China set off a trans-Pacific uproar when it declared that an
''air defense identification zone'' gave it the right to identify and possibly
take military action against aircraft near the islands. Japan refused to
recognize China's claim, and the United States has since defied China by sending
military planes into the zone, unannounced.

In February, Capt. James Fannell, the director of intelligence and information
operations with the United States Pacific Fleet, said in San Diego that China
was training its forces to be capable of carrying out a ''short, sharp'' war
with Japan in the East China Sea.

The dispute over the islands also figured prominently on Tuesday at the New York
debut of the Asia Society Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research group created
by the Asia Society. China's ambassador to the United States, Cui Tiankai,
participating in a panel on Asian peace and prosperity, politely but firmly
warned the United States about taking sides with Japan.

Without identifying Japan by name, Mr. Cui said America should think hard about
whether its military alliances with other countries in Asia were serving
American interests. He also rejected the idea of settling the island dispute
through arbitration, challenging the United States to put itself in China's
position.

''I don't think the United States would subject itself to any international
arbitration when its sovereignty and territorial integrity is concerned,'' he
said. ''Most probably you would send out an aircraft carrier task force there.
We are not doing that -- yet.''

William J. Burns, the deputy secretary of state, said in a keynote speech at the
event that the island dispute and North Korea's bellicose behavior were the two
most serious security issues facing Asia. Mr. Burns also sought to allay
concerns that the Obama administration was wavering in its so-called ''pivot to
Asia'' because of crises elsewhere in the world. Going forward, Mr. Burns said,
''no region will be more consequential for American interests and for the shape
of the global system than the Asia Pacific.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/04/09/world/asia/united-states-and-china-clash-over-
contested-islands.html

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, left, and Gen. Chang Wanquan, the
Chinese defense minister, at ceremonies Tuesday in Beijing. (POOL PHOTO BY ALEX
WONG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                            April 10, 2014 Thursday

Upgrades for Historic Luxury Hotels

BYLINE: ELAINE GLUSAC

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 316 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Hotel Imperial in Vienna and the Excelsior Hotel Gallia in Milan
are among the properties receiving updates through the Luxury Collection of
Starwood Hotels &#038; Resorts.


After restoring some of its most historic hotels last year, including the Gritti
Palace in Venice and the Hotel Maria Cristina in San Sebastian, Spain, the
Luxury Collection from Starwood Hotels & Resorts announced a second round of
upgrades, this time to two more historic properties, the Hotel Imperial in
Vienna andthe Excelsior Hotel Gallia in Milan, and two more-modern ones
including Santa Marina Resort in Mykonos, Greece, and Grand Hills in Broumana,
Lebanon.

The results of the initiative will be seen beginning this summer with the
75-room Santa Marina, featuring renovated guestrooms and beachfront restaurant,
and the Hotel Imperial, originally built in 1863 as a royal palace, which will
introduce a new restaurant, bar and event spaces.

When they open in September and December, respectively, both the 1932-vintage
Excelsior Hotel Gallia and the more contemporary Grand Hills will join the
Luxury Collection.

Some upgrades will address practical matters, such as Wi-Fi and plumbing. Others
will restore original design features that were covered up over the years.

All updates will emphasize interaction with their surroundings. Guests "want to
be where locals are buzzing," Paul James, global brand leader of the Luxury
Collection, St. Regis Hotels & Resorts and W Hotels Worldwide, wrote in an
email.

Past efforts to connect guests with local life included a new street entrance to
a bar at the Gritti Palace in Venice.

"You will soon see something similar with Hotel Imperial where the entrance,
connecting the hotel to the neighboring Musikverein, home to the Vienna
Philharmonic, will be restored and reopened to provide a stately sense of
arrival for maestros, musicians and guests," Mr. James said.


     ·    Discounts for Starwood Suites in New York
     ·    Check-In by Smartphone
     ·    An Early Start for Cyber Deals
     ·    W Hotels Will Promote Human Rights Campaign
     ·    TripAdvisor Expands Environmental Rating Program


LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            April 10, 2014 Thursday

2 Regulators Issue Guidelines on Sharing Cyber Security Information

BYLINE: EDWARD WYATT

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 447 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission said that
sharing information between companies about threats to cybersecurity is not
likely to raise antitrust concerns.


WASHINGTON - Sharing information between companies about threats to
cybersecurity is not likely to raise antitrust concerns, the Justice Department
and the Federal Trade Commission said Thursday.

In a new policy document that describes their stance, the regulators outlined
ways in which the sharing of cyber-threat information differs from the sharing
of competitive information, such as pricing data and business plans.

"Cyber threats are increasing in number and sophistication, and sharing
information about these threats, such as incident reports, indicators and threat
signatures, is something companies can do to protect their information systems,"
said Bill Baer, an assistant attorney general in charge of Justice's antitrust
division.

The regulators previously issued guidelines on the sharing of information about
cyber threats in October 2000 in a business review letter to the Electric Power
Research Institute. The regulators have relied on that opinion ever since, but
only now turned it into a formal policy.

In February 2013, in the wake of an increasing number of cyberattacks and theft
of consumers' personal data, President Obama  issued an executive order urging
the use of the safe harbor and ensuring that privacy and civil liberties
protections are in place. According to a recent study by Risk Based Security,
there were more than 2,000 data security breaches in 2013.

Justice Department officials also emphasized that companies should inform the
government about cyber threats. Deputy Attorney General James M. Cole called on
Congress to enact new laws governing the reporting of cybersecurity issues,
including a duty to inform federal agencies of such a threat.

"Companies must recognize the need to share with the government, because it is
through such sharing that the government is able to help companies most quickly
and effectively address intrusions and to help prevent future attacks," Mr. Cole
said.

Edith Ramirez, the chairwoman of the F.T.C., which shares jurisdiction over
competition issues with the Justice Department, said the policy was designed to
stem reluctance among companies to share information about the type and scope of
cybersecurity threats.

"This statement should help private businesses," Ms. Ramirez said, "by making it
clear that antitrust laws do not stand in the way of legitimate sharing of
cybersecurity threat information."


     ·    In Two Settlements, Money for Apple and Amazon Customers
     ·    A Senator Raises Privacy Questions About Cross-Device Tracking
     ·    U.S. Proposes Solutions for Apple's E-Book Price-Fixing
     ·    Daily Report: Apple Ruling Strengthens Amazon's Powerful Hand
     ·    F.T.C. Still Expects to Resolve Google Antitrust Inquiry by Year's End


LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 11, 2014 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cyberthreat Data Is Not Antitrust Fodder, U.S. Says

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 411 words


WASHINGTON -- Sharing information between companies about threats to
cybersecurity is not likely to raise antitrust concerns, the Justice Department
and the Federal Trade Commission said Thursday.

In a new policy document that describes their stance, the regulators outlined
ways in which the sharing of cyber-threat information differs from the sharing
of competitive information, such as pricing data and business plans.

''Cyber threats are increasing in number and sophistication, and sharing
information about these threats, such as incident reports, indicators and threat
signatures, is something companies can do to protect their information
systems,'' said Bill Baer, an assistant attorney general in charge of Justice's
antitrust division.

The regulators previously issued guidelines on the sharing of information about
cyber threats in October 2000 in a business review letter to the Electric Power
Research Institute. The regulators have relied on that opinion ever since, but
only now turned it into a formal policy.

In February 2013, in the wake of an increasing number of cyberattacks and theft
of consumers' personal data, President Obama issued an executive order urging
the use of the safe harbor and ensuring that privacy and civil liberties
protections are in place. According to a recent study by Risk Based Security,
there were more than 2,000 data security breaches in 2013.

Justice Department officials also emphasized that companies should inform the
government about cyber threats. Deputy Attorney General James M. Cole called on
Congress to enact new laws governing the reporting of cybersecurity issues,
including a duty to inform federal agencies of such a threat.

''Companies must recognize the need to share with the government, because it is
through such sharing that the government is able to help companies most quickly
and effectively address intrusions and to help prevent future attacks,'' Mr.
Cole said.

Edith Ramirez, the chairwoman of the F.T.C., which shares jurisdiction over
competition issues with the Justice Department, said the policy was designed to
stem reluctance among companies to share information about the type and scope of
cybersecurity threats.

''This statement should help private businesses,'' Ms. Ramirez said, ''by making
it clear that antitrust laws do not stand in the way of legitimate sharing of
cybersecurity threat information.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/04/10/2-regulators-issue-guidelines-on-sharin
g-cyber-security-information/

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 13, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Lets N.S.A. Exploit Some Internet Flaws, Officials Say

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1246 words


WASHINGTON -- Stepping into a heated debate within the nation's intelligence
agencies, President Obama has decided that when the National Security Agency
discovers major flaws in Internet security, it should -- in most circumstances
-- reveal them to assure that they will be fixed, rather than keep mum so that
the flaws can be used in espionage or cyberattacks, senior administration
officials said Saturday.

But Mr. Obama carved a broad exception for ''a clear national security or law
enforcement need,'' the officials said, a loophole that is likely to allow the
N.S.A. to continue to exploit security flaws both to crack encryption on the
Internet and to design cyberweapons.

The White House has never publicly detailed Mr. Obama's decision, which he made
in January as he began a three-month review of recommendations by a presidential
advisory committee on what to do in response to recent disclosures about the
National Security Agency.

But elements of the decision became evident on Friday, when the White House
denied that it had any prior knowledge of the Heartbleed bug, a newly known hole
in Internet security that sent Americans scrambling last week to change their
online passwords. The White House statement said that when such flaws are
discovered, there is now a ''bias'' in the government to share that knowledge
with computer and software manufacturers so a remedy can be created and
distributed to industry and consumers.

Caitlin Hayden, the spokeswoman for the National Security Council, said the
review of the recommendations was now complete, and it had resulted in a
''reinvigorated'' process to weigh the value of disclosure when a security flaw
is discovered, against the value of keeping the discovery secret for later use
by the intelligence community.

''This process is biased toward responsibly disclosing such vulnerabilities,''
she said.

Until now, the White House has declined to say what action Mr. Obama had taken
on this recommendation of the president's advisory committee, whose report is
better known for its determination that the government get out of the business
of collecting bulk telephone data about the calls made by every American. Mr.
Obama announced last month that he would end the bulk collection, and leave the
data in the hands of telecommunications companies, with a procedure for the
government to obtain it with court orders when needed.

But while the surveillance recommendations were noteworthy, inside the
intelligence agencies other recommendations, concerning encryption and cyber
operations, set off a roaring debate with echoes of the Cold War battles that
dominated Washington a half-century ago.

One recommendation urged the N.S.A. to get out of the business of weakening
commercial encryption systems or trying to build in ''back doors'' that would
make it far easier for the agency to crack the communications of America's
adversaries. Tempting as it was to create easy ways to break codes -- the reason
the N.S.A. was established by Harry S. Truman 62 years ago -- the committee
concluded that the practice would undercut trust in American software and
hardware products. In recent months, Silicon Valley companies have urged the
United States to abandon such practices, while Germany and Brazil, among other
nations, have said they were considering shunning American-made equipment and
software. Their motives were hardly pure: Foreign companies see the N.S.A.
disclosures as a way to bar American competitors.

Another recommendation urged the government to make only the most limited,
temporary use of what hackers call ''zero days,'' the coding flaws in software
like Microsoft Windows that can give an attacker access to a computer -- and to
any business, government agency or network connected to it. The flaws get their
name from the fact that, when identified, the computer user has ''zero days'' to
fix them before hackers can exploit the accidental vulnerability.

The N.S.A. made use of four ''zero day'' vulnerabilities in its attack on Iran's
nuclear enrichment sites. That operation, code-named ''Olympic Games,'' managed
to damage roughly 1,000 Iranian centrifuges, and by some accounts helped drive
the country to the negotiating table.

Not surprisingly, officials at the N.S.A. and at its military partner, the
United States Cyber Command, warned that giving up the capability to exploit
undisclosed vulnerabilities would amount to ''unilateral disarmament'' -- a
phrase taken from the battles over whether and how far to cut America's nuclear
arsenal.

''We don't eliminate nuclear weapons until the Russians do,'' one senior
intelligence official said recently. ''You are not going to see the Chinese give
up on 'zero days' just because we do.'' Even a senior White House official who
was sympathetic to broad reforms after the N.S.A. disclosures said last month,
''I can't imagine the president -- any president -- entirely giving up a
technology that might enable him some day to take a covert action that could
avoid a shooting war.''

At the center of that technology are the kinds of hidden gaps in the Internet --
almost always created by mistake or oversight -- that Heartbleed created. There
is no evidence that the N.S.A. had any role in creating Heartbleed, or even that
it made use of it. When the White House denied prior knowledge of Heartbleed on
Friday afternoon, it appeared to be the first time that the N.S.A. had ever said
whether a particular flaw in the Internet was -- or was not -- in the secret
library it keeps at Fort Meade, Md., the headquarters of the agency and Cyber
Command.

But documents released by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor, make
it clear that two years before Heartbleed became known, the N.S.A. was looking
at ways to accomplish exactly what the flaw did by accident. A program
code-named Bullrun, apparently named for the site of two Civil War battles just
outside Washington, was part of a decade-long effort to crack or circumvent
encryption on the web. The documents do not make clear how well it succeeded,
but it may well have been more effective than exploiting Heartbleed would be at
enabling access to secret data.

The government has become one of the biggest developers and purchasers of
information identifying ''zero days,'' officials acknowledge. Those flaws are
big business -- Microsoft pays up to $150,000 to those who find them and bring
them to the company to fix -- and other countries are gathering them so avidly
that something of a modern-day arms race has broken out. Chief among the nations
seeking them are China and Russia, though Iran and North Korea are in the market
as well.

''Cyber as an offensive weapon will become bigger and bigger,'' said Michael
DeCesare, who runs the McAfee computer security operations of Intel Corporation.
''I don't think any amount of policy alone will stop them'' from doing what they
are doing, he said of the Russians, the Chinese and others. ''That's why
effective command and control strategies are absolutely imperative on our
side.''

The presidential advisory committee did not urge the N.S.A. to get out of the
business entirely. But it said that the president should make sure the N.S.A.
does not ''engineer vulnerabilities'' into commercial encryption systems. And it
said that if the United States finds a ''zero day,'' it should patch it, not
exploit it, with one exception: Senior officials could ''briefly authorize using
a zero day for high priority intelligence protection.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/04/13/us/politics/obama-lets-nsa-exploit-some-intern
et-flaws-officials-say.html

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edward J. Snowden, the National Security Agency leaker,
speaking to European officials via videoconference last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
FREDERICK FLORIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                            April 24, 2014 Thursday

A Little Night Snorkeling

BYLINE: ELAINE GLUSAC

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 199 words



HIGHLIGHT: Sugar Beach, a Viceroy resort in St. Lucia, is offering night
snorkeling to guests.


Scuba divers have long had the opportunity to see nocturnal creatures living
among reefs by taking night dive excursions. Now snorkelers can try it too.

Sugar Beach, a Viceroy resort in St. Lucia, is offering night snorkeling to
guests of any ability.

A minimum of four snorkelers accompanied by a guide wade in from the resort
beach to hover above coral heads just feet offshore where they may spy animals
that are normally shy by day, including octopus and eels, as well as colorful
parrotfish and phosphorescent microorganisms visible only in darkness that make
the water itself seem to glow.

"Night snorkeling has been a huge hit with our guests and has given them the
opportunity to explore a whole new world," Vitus Joyeux, Sugar Beach's water
sports and dive manager, wrote in an email. "We give everyone an underwater
flashlight and lead them on a wonderful voyage of discovery."

For the scuba trained, the resort also offers night diving through its dive
center.


     ·    Walkabout: The Rise of Dubai's Sedate Sister; A Ground War Between
          Airlines
     ·    An Early Start for Cyber Deals
     ·    Antarctica by Snorkel
     ·    Queen's Day Becomes King's Day in the Netherlands
     ·    Orbitz Adds to Third-Party Booking Credit Card Options


LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 27, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 725 words


9 P.M. (OWN) RUNNING FROM CRAZY (2013) Mariel Hemingway -- in her own words:
''tall blonde, no problems'' -- discusses the famous ancestry and mental health
challenges of her family, including the suicides of her grandfather Ernest
Hemingway and her sister Margaux, in this documentary directed by Barbara Kopple
and commissioned by Oprah Winfrey's OWN channel. Ms. Kopple follows Ms.
Hemingway, above, while she visits her family, including her daughters, Dree and
Langley, and other sister, Joan, a.k.a. Muffet; gives speeches on her wellness
regime; and works out with a male companion. '' 'Running From Crazy' -- the
title is Ms. Hemingway's phrasing -- doesn't entirely escape the dangers of the
confessional profile,'' Nicolas Rapold wrote in The New York Times. ''But Ms.
Kopple shows how people in Ms. Hemingway's position, with a family history of
mental health problems, confront a foreboding mirror, whether or not it also
reflects a literary heritage and a Kennedy-grade bone structure.''

10 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK Homeland Security Secretary Jeh C. Johnson addresses the
latest security threats and the debate over immigration policy. Senator
Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, talks about her new book, ''A
Fighting Chance.''

10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, a Republican,
discusses the state of politics and the 2016 election. Jennifer Gratz, chief
executive of the XIV Foundation, and Shanta Driver, national chairwoman of By
Any Means Necessary, discuss the Supreme Court's decision upholding Michigan's
ban on affirmative action.

10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION The guests are Senators Bob Corker, Republican
of Tennessee, and Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, and Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel.

10:30 A.M. (NBC) MEET THE PRESS Tony Blair, the former British prime minister,
discusses his speech on Islam and the Middle East, and Russia's advances in
Crimea.

1:30 P.M. (ABC Family) HARRY POTTER AND THE DEATHLY HALLOWS: PART 1 (2010) In
this penultimate installment of the film adaptations of the J. K. Rowling books,
Harry (Daniel Radcliffe), Ron Weasley (Rupert Grint) and Hermione Granger (Emma
Watson) are cast out from the cocoon of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and
Wizardry into a perilous grown-up world, devoid of Albus Dumbledore, now dead,
and other adult supervision. Now it's up to Harry to destroy the power of Lord
Voldemort (Ralph Fiennes, above) or risk losing his own life. The movie,
directed by David Yates, ''belongs solidly to Mr. Radcliffe, Mr. Grint and Ms.
Watson, who have grown into nimble actors, capable of nuances of feeling that
would do their elders proud,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The Times. In the
franchise's conclusion, ''Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2'' (2011),
at 5, childhood ends with tears, howls and smoke as the three, now adult
wizards, face their final showdown. Writing in The Times, Manohla Dargis said
that Alan Rickman, as Snape, Harry's longtime nemesis, ''lifts the movie to its
expressive high point.'' That Snape ''has become such a brilliant screen
character is due to Mr. Rickman, who helped elevate a child's tale of good and
evil into a story of human struggle,'' she added.

6:30 P.M. (13) MOYERS & COMPANY Bill Moyers interviews Ellen Dorsey, the
executive director of the Wallace Global Fund, and Thomas Van Dyck, a financial
adviser with RBC Wealth Management, about the campaign to persuade investors to
take their money out of the fossil fuel industry and invest instead in companies
committed to climate-change solutions.

10 P.M. (HBO) SILICON VALLEY Peter (Christopher Evan Welch) hosts a toga party,
where a drunk Richard (Thomas Middleditch) promises to make Erlich (T. J.
Miller) a board member -- an act he regrets in the morning. In ''Veep,'' at
10:30, Selina (Julia Louis-Dreyfus) travels to Silicon Valley on a fund-raising
trip, where she is challenged by an anti-fracking mother and visits Clovis, a
tech company with an ambitious young chief executive. And in ''Last Week Tonight
With John Oliver,'' at 11, Mr. Oliver, a former correspondent for ''The Daily
Show With Jon Stewart,'' puts a satirical twist on the news. He begins by
interviewing Gen. Keith B. Alexander, who recently retired as director of the
National Security Agency and commander of the United States Cyber Command.

KATHRYN SHATTUCK

URL:

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY OPRAH WINFREY NETWORK)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 27, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Status Update

BYLINE: By ALISSA QUART.

Alissa Quart is the author of ''Republic of Outsiders'' and ''Branded.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1070 words


IT'S COMPLICATEDThe Social Lives of Networked Teens

By Danah Boyd281 pp. Yale University Press. $25.

Since the word ''teenager'' was coined 70 years ago, adults have defined
adolescents by one extreme or another. They are rebels without causes or
activist leaders, mindless consumers or cultural kingpins, digital natives or
naïfs. Enter Danah Boyd, a principal researcher at Microsoft Research and a
research assistant professor at New York University. In life, Boyd retains the
spirit of a youthful rebel, with her pierced tongue and name spelled in
anti-Establishment lowercase. And perhaps in part thanks to its author's
identification with youth, ''It's Complicated'' avoids many of the typical
either-or clichés about adolescence. Boyd's new book is layered and smart.

In each chapter, Boyd addresses various panics about teenagers. She describes
how they live virtually today, meeting on Skype rather than in the den, mall or
park; texting one another through classes, sharing relationship drama on
Facebook. She understands why adults are concerned about teenagers becoming
screenagers but also what teenagers get out of their screen lives. Boyd palpably
cares for her subjects.

''I often heard parents complain that their children preferred computers to
'real people,' '' Boyd writes. In her research, however, she discovered that
they would much rather hang out with their friends in person. But they can't.
''Today's teenagers have less freedom to wander than any previous generation.''
Many American teenagers attend schools outside their neighborhoods, live in
gated communities and are advised (often by their parents) to fear strangers.
Curfew and loitering laws further tack kids to their bedrooms. According to
Boyd, the American bourgeoisie is more devoted to buying free-range meat than
raising free-range children. In this anodyne, restricted America, social media
is the only way teenagers can effectively get a life.

To parents or educators who believe social media is dangerous, Boyd argues that
there's no reason to believe ''digital celibacy'' will help teenagers become
smarter, happier or healthier. If adults worry that their children are falling
in love with their operating systems (as in Spike Jonze's film ''Her''), she
offers a more positive spin. Teenagers go online ''to take control of their
lives and their relationship to society,'' she writes. ''Social media -- far
from being the seductive Trojan horse -- is a release valve, allowing youth to
reclaim meaningful sociality as a tool for managing the pressures and
limitations around them.'' Boyd's lesson is this: If the concern is that kids
are spending too much time online, the best response isn't merely to pull the
plug. Parents, teachers and even urban planners might try to think about giving
kids physical freedom, leisure time and more public spaces to gather to actually
change their digital habits.

The book also offers a thoughtful and useful chapter on privacy and technology,
where Boyd writes with insightful pith, ''Privacy doesn't just depend on agency;
being able to achieve privacy is an expression of agency.''

This chapter and others are tethered to a central media studies tenet about
teenagers (and fan boys and girls): Young people have more power and capacity
than we might think. Youth and other networked communities are not simply
passive consumers or pliant sex objects. Instead, they are cultural creators and
arbiters who are, at least partially, controlling and scripting their own lives
and experiences.

Boyd writes brilliantly about teenagers' main weapon against privacy invasion,
which she calls ''social steganography.'' They practice a sort of interpersonal
encryption when using social networks. For instance, parents might read but not
fully understand teenagers' posts and messages because they're using in-jokes,
nicknames, code words, subliminal tweeting or ''sub-tweeting'' so tweets become
''meaningless to clueless outsiders.'' I might find it silly if a 16-year-old
from New Jersey on Facebook says she is 95 years old and from Easter Island.
However, Boyd sees young people dissembling about their age or geography as the
technological equivalent of writing messages with invisible ink. According to
her, these personae are often modes of self-protection (from adult sexual
predators, for instance) and also self-expression. ''Rather than finding privacy
by controlling access to content,'' she writes, ''many teens are instead
controlling access to meaning.''

Boyd is a passionate futurist. Indeed, ''It's Complicated'' can be too bullish
about growing up networked. She tends not to be explicitly critical of the fact
that these teenagers have to navigate advertisements 24/7 and often become
advertisements for themselves on social networks. To my mind, this is one of the
most pernicious elements of social media. In addition, as today's default
setting for all of us is publicity, privacy is costly and time-consuming (think
about the time it takes to change settings or encrypt, for example). The recent
revelations of how deeply our privacy is violated online by the N.S.A. as well
as by data-mining corporations (which include Google and Facebook) have
horrified some Americans. But we haven't even begun to imagine what it means to
grow up thinking that your every email and text message is very likely being
recorded.

To her credit, Boyd acknowledges that teenagers' power -- especially the edge
obtained by cyber-manipulating identity and privacy -- has its limits. Young
people are sometimes exploited and bullied virtually. In addition, their privacy
can be invaded in unexpected ways, through what Boyd calls ''collapsed
contexts.'' Their hidden online identities can be revealed accidentally on
social media, where otherwise unconnected people can overlap. These crosshatched
worlds can be particularly challenging, Boyd writes, for teenagers who occupy
radically different worlds. For instance, a teenager she interviewed was still
''working through her sexuality'' and was terrified of being outed inadvertently
to her conservative parents by her online chat history. Other young people were
worried that their use of social media might accidentally allow their hidebound
religious parents to discover their buried identities.

The idea of ''collapsed contexts'' is just one way that Boyd's book helps us
understand our new environment. ''It's Complicated'' will update your mind.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/04/27/books/review/its-complicated-by-danah-boyd.htm
l

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HENNING WAGENBRETH)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 29, 2014 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

White House Details Thinking on Cybersecurity Flaws

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 910 words


WASHINGTON -- In a rare insight into the government's thinking on the use of
cyberweapons, the White House on Monday published a series of questions it asks
in deciding when to make public the discovery of major flaws in computer
security or whether to keep them secret so that American intelligence agencies
can use them to enable surveillance or an attack.

The discussion came not in a presidential policy directive or a speech, like the
kind President Obama gave when describing the criteria for conducting drone
attacks, but in a blog post on the White House website. The item was posted by
Michael Daniel, the White House cybersecurity coordinator, and appeared to be
distilled from a far more detailed classified document giving guidance to the
National Security Agency, the F.B.I. and others who often exploit flaws in
Internet security.

Mr. Daniel repeated the N.S.A.'s declaration several weeks ago that ''we had no
prior knowledge of the existence of Heartbleed,'' a security vulnerability that
created widespread fears that passwords or other delicate information
transmitted by millions of computer users may have been revealed. But he
acknowledged that the Heartbleed incident had cast a light on a balancing test
the White House has until now declined to discuss in any detail: When should the
government reveal flaws that it discovers, and when should it use them for its
still-unacknowledged ''stockpile'' of flaws that would help it penetrate foreign
computer networks?

It is a heated issue inside the N.S.A. and the Pentagon. The United States made
use of four so-called zero-day vulnerabilities -- flaws that had been known for
zero days to the outside world -- to attack and disable elements of Iran's
nuclear program in an operation called Olympic Games. The United States and
Israel, which mounted that campaign, have never acknowledged their involvement,
and most of the time such vulnerabilities are exploited for more routine
actions, especially the interception of email or other Internet traffic.

But the intelligence agencies, along with the F.B.I., have argued that giving up
a key weapon in that arsenal would amount to unilateral disarmament. The White
House seems to agree.

''In the majority of cases, responsibly disclosing a newly discovered
vulnerability is clearly in the national interest,'' Mr. Daniel wrote, because
of the need to keep Internet transactions, on which the world economy heavily
depends, as secure as possible. ''This has been and continues to be the case.''

But he spent the rest of his blog entry describing what conditions might lead to
a decision not to publish the details of a flaw -- perhaps for a short time,
perhaps for much longer. ''Disclosing a vulnerability can mean that we forego an
opportunity to collect crucial intelligence that could thwart a terrorist
attack, stop the theft of our nation's intellectual property, or even discover
more dangerous vulnerabilities that are being used by hackers or other
adversaries to exploit our networks,'' Mr. Daniel wrote, describing the review
that has taken place at the White House in the past few months.

''This is an acknowledgment of the need to do offensive cyber, both espionage
and attack,'' said Jack Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who served in the
Bush administration and has written extensively on the legal rationales for the
use of cyberweapons. ''What's notable is that the White House has now agreed
that these issues have to be considered at a higher level, that often it's a
hard call, and it's not an issue that should just be left to the N.S.A. or the
F.B.I.''

Mr. Daniel wrote that the administration has now ''established a disciplined,
rigorous and high-level decision-making process for vulnerability disclosure.''
He did not say who would participate, or whether the hardest questions would be
bounced to the president, much as he sometimes reviews the details of drone
strikes or other covert operations that could have diplomatic implications. Mr.
Daniel did not say who runs that process, but administration officials say it is
largely directed by the National Security Council, and often by Mr. Daniel
himself.

That group would weigh at least nine questions that Mr. Daniel enumerated.

The first was: ''How much is the vulnerable system used in the core Internet
infrastructure, in other critical infrastructure systems, in the U.S. economy,
and/or in national security systems?'' That seemed to suggest that a
vulnerability that had potentially wide impact on the American economy, its
utilities or the cellphone networks, for example, would be more important than
one with narrow implications.

Another question for the group to consider, he wrote, was how much harm ''an
adversary nation or criminal group'' could do with the vulnerability and whether
it would be possible to know that such a nation or group was exploiting it. In
the case of Heartbleed, the government was apparently unaware of the flaw, even
though it had existed for roughly two years.

Other questions turned to the issue of whether intelligence agencies think the
information is necessary, for surveillance or an attack, and whether there are
other ways to get it. Among the most interesting questions on the list was this
one: ''Could we utilize the vulnerability for a short period of time before we
disclose it?''

That suggests an option to allow the White House to split the difference between
its intelligence needs and the principle of public disclosure.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/04/29/us/white-house-details-thinking-on-cybersecuri
ty-gaps.html

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Daniel (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/A.F.P. -- GETTY
IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 30, 2014 Wednesday
                        The International New York Times

In the Eye of the Information Age

BYLINE: By MATT WOLF

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg.

LENGTH: 1162 words


LONDON -- ''Who is it that can tell me who I am?'' King Lear's centuries-old
question ripples unspoken throughout ''Privacy,'' James Graham's dazzling new
play at the Donmar Warehouse. And the modern answer to Lear's query would appear
to be at once everyone and everything.

''Privacy'' renders a sensationally entertaining vision of our time that also
gives cause for alarm. This is in large part thanks to the director, Josie
Rourke, whose production -- playing through May 31 -- provides a dizzying sense
of life as it is currently lived both online and off.

Billed as an investigative piece prompted by the surveillance-intensive climate
made public by the N.S.A. whistle-blower Edward Snowden and WikiLeaks, the play
ricochets between factual inquiry and fictive rumination, theatrical
razzle-dazzle and the deeper soul searching required of us by, yes, Shakespeare.

Its actual narrative involves the putting together of the very play we are
watching, as we see a dramatist (Joshua McGuire) being coaxed into action by his
director (Michelle Terry), the two characters presented as teasing onstage
versions, at least to some degree, of Mr. Graham and Ms. Rourke.

That's about as much as there is by way of plot. ''Privacy'' prefers to expose
the manifold byways of the digital revolution in a catch-all manner rather than
by sticking to a linear path. (It's revealed, for instance, how much a theater
can find out about you from the simple act of purchasing a ticket.)

As fractured in its structure as the world it reflects, the play draws on
intensive study of cyberspace and those who frequent it by the creative team --
the production credits include a researcher, Harry Davies -- but the result
never feels like so many facts filleted for easy consumption.

Instead, we glimpse the writer in the company of his psychiatrist (the
ever-droll Paul Chahidi, a Tony nominee this season for ''Twelfth Night''),
facing up to intimacy issues amid a landscape in which our behavior is seen to
be increasingly available to all and sundry. Amid a visual backdrop cunningly
made up of so many thumbprints (designed by Lucy Osborne), ''Privacy''
anatomizes the impossibility of achieving just that in an age when, to cite one
of the many examples proffered from the stage, supermarkets can tell if a woman
is pregnant before she knows it herself on the basis of shifts in buying habits.
(You may also find a picture of your home projected onto the back wall of the
stage set.)

''Scary, right?'' the peerless Ms. Terry grins, as yet another cyber-sponsored
intrusion into our ways of being is laid bare. Yes, but riveting, too, the
show's vigorous embrace of the modern tempered by the sorts of ageless concerns
that allow Shakespeare's final play, ''The Tempest,'' to exist as textual
underscoring in the second act. And because this is that rare live performance
where patrons are encouraged to keep their mobile phones turned on (to say any
more on that front would give away various coups de théâtre), you don't have to
wait until ''Privacy'' is over to make public how bleakly beautiful and bracing
this play really is.

If Mr. Graham taps directly into contemporary experience as it is (often
unwittingly) shared, Moira Buffini's play ''Handbagged'' imagines the private
workings of the upper echelons of British life that are closed off to all but a
privileged few. The chosen terrain here is the rapport -- often fractious but
sometimes not -- between Queen Elizabeth II and Margaret Thatcher during the 11
years (from 1979 to 1990) that Britain's first female prime minister held sway
over the country.

That synopsis may have an air of déjà vu about it: Last year, the Peter Morgan
play ''The Audience'' contained a scene in which we were allowed to eavesdrop on
that same prime minister and the queen behind closed doors.

But Ms. Buffini has turned that relationship into an entire evening, tricked out
with two actresses each to play the younger and older versions of the politician
and the monarch, alongside a pair of men to mop up the multiple remaining roles
-- a variety of characters ranging from Rupert Murdoch to Nancy Reagan and many
more. (The nimble Neet Mohan cuts a rather endearing figure as the former first
lady.)

The result is that we are yet again in the land of royal supposition and surmise
that has been additionally staked out of late by Mike Bartlett's ''King Charles
III,'' the difference being that Ms. Buffini is talking about bygone events
whereas Mr. Bartlett is peering into a crystal ball.

''Handbagged'' is arguably the least imaginatively conceived of these
like-themed plays, content as it is to canter across the years, flagging
significant historical moments along the way. There's a reminder of the invasion
of the Falkland Islands one minute, the poll tax riots the next. And so it goes.

And for all its occasional meta-theatrical japery -- the women argue as to
whether there should be an intermission -- the play often seems a fanciful
historical primer decked out with audience-pandering vignettes. Jeff Rawle, one
of the two actors on hand to lend support, is at one point required to ask
''where in the name of ding-dong'' are the Falklands, the query posed in Mr.
Rawle's thickest faux-Ronald Reagan drawl.

Indhu Rubasingham's production is a commercial transfer from the Tricycle
Theater, the same north London venue that sent this same director's fine staging
of the Lolita Chakrabarti play ''Red Velvet'' to New York this spring.

The larger confines of the Vaudeville Theater may expose the makeshift
abstractions of Richard Kent's none-too-arresting geometric set, but they give
rightful pride of place to the casting coup that helps account for the Olivier
Award for achievement in an affiliate theater -- that is, one not from the West
End -- that was won by ''Handbagged'' several weeks ago.

The four women -- fine actresses all, but none of them stars -- look palpably
delighted to be joining the ranks of Meryl Streep and Helen Mirren in that
select brigade who have been called to join the ongoing crew of Thatcher or
Elizabeth II wannabes. If I single out Marion Bailey, who plays the older of the
two queens, and Fenella Woolgar, as the younger of the two politicians, it's
only because they, in particular, couple impersonation with inspiration,
elevating what could be mere pastiche toward something more affectionate and
even moving. (Stella Gonet and Lucy Robinson complete the quartet.)

Ms. Bailey gets the monarch's physical posture precisely right and communicates
a spry intellect and keen sense of mischief behind the royal façade. The
astonishing Ms. Woolgar not only captures Thatcher's deliberately sculpted way
of speaking but also the woman behind the so-called Iron Lady persona, whose
presence allows an individual -- in art as in life -- to exist in three
dimensions.

Privacy. Directed by Josie Rourke. Donmar Warehouse. Through May 31.

Handbagged. Directed by Indhu Rubasingham. Vaudeville Theater. Through Aug. 2.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/04/30/arts/international/Privacy-and-Handbagged-info
rmation-age.html

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 3, 2014 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hey, Jack, You're Back! Anything New?

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1051 words


There is a Persian custom that could probably improve television.

It's Taarof, which makes a virtue of insincerity. For example, a host is
expected to offer hospitality three times, each time more pressingly, but the
guest should humbly refuse. Tempting as it might have been for the creators of
''24'' to resurrect their show, they would have been wiser to walk away after
the third invitation.

Instead, this groundbreaking action-adventure series is returning to Fox on
Monday for an encore season, starting up again four years after the finale of
Season 8 in 2010. And while there are some new faces and updated plot points,
this ''24'' is a revival, not a do-over. Subtitled ''Live Another Day,'' the
show is more of the same that filled all the days that came before, and that's
not always desirable. Sometimes it's better to start over completely or let a
series end for real, for good.

Effort and enthusiasm aren't enough to sustain even shows that were once
unrivaled in the ratings and at the water cooler. For its 13th season,
''American Idol'' has new judges, a faster pace and all kinds of lures for young
viewers, including song requests on Twitter (#IdolRequest) and contestant
selfies on Instagram. But the ratings of ''Idol'' continue to sink far below
those of its rival singing competition ''The Voice.'' And the sad thing is that
''American Idol'' isn't bad; most viewers have just moved on.

''24'' made its debut in 2001 and lasted long enough to play off two
presidencies and the invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq. It examined some of the
graver issues of the time, notably torture and civil liberties, without
interrupting the flow of comic-book suspense.

The writing was often prescient: The series was written before the Sept. 11
attacks; the president in the first season was black; and in the last season,
Moscow was behind some of the most heinous attacks on Western interests.

Most of all, ''24'' paved the way for many other smart political thrillers.

''Homeland,'' on Showtime, was created by some of the writers and producers who
cut their teeth on ''24.'' The homage did not go both ways: The team behind this
ninth season didn't try to slow down the frantic pace of ''24'' and make room
for some of the sophistication and complexity of ''Homeland.''

And now ''The Americans,'' an espionage thriller on FX, set during the 1980s
Cold War, has the creative momentum. That series, about Soviet spies working
undercover as an American suburban couple, builds suspense -- and a devoted
audience -- with an intriguing, layered story line and complicated characters,
not top-of-the-line gadgetry or dazzling cinematography. Espionage on ''The
Americans'' is primitive, mostly phone taps and bugs planted in the walls. There
is no Internet: The K.G.B. is trying to get its hands on an early prototype
developed by the military, Arpanet.

''The Americans'' feels new because it resuscitates the old in fresh, creative
ways.

For the return of ''24,'' the writers rejiggered the usual elements, blending
one-dimensional heroes and villains with complicated cinematic stunts and
sophisticated acts of violence. The superagent Jack Bauer (Kiefer Sutherland),
who has been off the grid and on the run ever since he went on a final killing
spree at the end of Season 8, is back. And he is once again risking his freedom
to save an ungrateful world from a global disaster.

The setting, London, is new, but not much else. Chloe (Mary Lynn Rajskub), one
of the most gifted, if crankiest, of computer savants, is back, though she is
now sporting an asymmetrical goth hairdo. One of Jack's old flames, Audrey (Kim
Raver), has also returned, along with her father, James Heller (William Devane),
a former secretary of defense who is now president.

Once again, there is a White House chief of staff who seems intent on concealing
things from the commander in chief. Fiendish international terrorists are back
in the business of stealing top-secret weapons and threatening national
security. The president could once more be a target for assassination.

There are some new elements that incorporate recent headlines, though. The
premiere includes hackers and cyber insurgents in the mode of Julian Assange, as
well as military drones that target terrorist suspects in Afghanistan. But some
older issues are still in play, including the use of torture by sinister
intelligence operatives who refer to their methods as ''enhanced
interrogation.''

Most important, and mercifully, the trademark 24-hour day has been shrunk --
there will be just 12 episodes, each representing a different hour on the
ticking clock -- and not every hour will be included. That's a real improvement,
because even when ''24'' was at its peak, the effort to sustain a one-day crisis
over 24 episodes stretched plots and plausibility to silly-putty extremes.

But so much of what seemed new when the series began now seems dated. Even the
over-the-top political melodrama that ''24'' introduced has been co-opted by
other shows. On the ABC drama ''Scandal,'' Borgia-like conspiracies coil around
every Washington operative, and even the president and the vice president are
ruthless killers. Shows like ''Crisis'' and ''The Blacklist'' (both on NBC)
offer savage terrorist plots and ingenious counterterrorist maneuvers. ''Person
of Interest'' (CBS) is entirely about government surveillance run amok.

Even ''The Good Wife'' (also on CBS), a romance-leaning legal drama, has tapped
deep into the public's fear of unchecked National Security Agency eavesdropping.

''24'' changed television drama, but it hasn't changed, and television has moved
on.

24: Live Another Day

Fox, Monday nights at 9, Eastern and Pacific times; 8, Central time.

Produced by 20th Century Fox Television, Teakwood Lane Productions and Imagine
Television. Created by Joel Surnow and Robert Cochran; directed by Jon Cassar;
Howard Gordon, Evan Katz, Manny Coto, David Fury, Mr. Cochran, Brian Grazer, Mr.
Cassar and Kiefer Sutherland, executive producers.

WITH: Kiefer Sutherland (Jack Bauer), Mary Lynn Rajskub (Chloe O'Brian), Kim
Raver (Audrey Boudreau), William Devane (James Heller), Benjamin Bratt (Steve
Navarro), Yvonne Strahovski (Kate Morgan), Tate Donovan (Mark Boudreau), Michael
Wincott (Adrian Cross), Gbenga Akinnagbe (Erik Ritter) and Giles Matthey (Jordan
Reed).

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/05/03/arts/television/kiefer-sutherland-returns-in-2
4-live-another-day.html

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 24: Live Another Day: After four years, Kiefer Sutherland
revives his Jack Bauer role on Fox this Monday. (C1)
 Mary Lynn Rajskub, with Michael  Wincott, reprises her computer savant  role in
''24: Live Another Day.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL SMITH/FOX) (C7)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 4, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Word Wide Web

BYLINE: By LIESL SCHILLINGER.

Liesl Schillinger is a regular contributor to the Book Review.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1239 words


THE WORD EXCHANGEBy Alena Graedon

370 pp. Doubleday. $26.95.

Earlier this year, one of those BuzzFeed quizzes that tempt the idle with
spurious but irresistible personality tests asked web surfers to click a box to
identify their worst fear, choosing among nine popular forms of dread. Many of
the choices in the Fear category were unsurprising -- Failure, Cancer, Dying
Alone -- but one stood apart: Suddenly Becoming Stupid. Who would have thought,
in this age of gung-ho, market-driven anti-intellectualism, that anxiety about
fading brainpower was sufficiently potent and widespread to go viral? Who knew
it was even, as millennials say, a thing?

In Alena Graedon's first novel, ''The Word Exchange,'' a nervy, nerdy dystopic
thriller set in New York City in the very near future, the risk of ''suddenly
becoming stupid'' is not notional, it's actual. A highly contagious, sometimes
fatal virus called ''word flu'' has leapt from computers to their users,
corrupting not only written language but also spoken words with gibberish and
scaring the ''pask'' out of infected netizens.

If you've ever received an indecipherable text message, you know the frustration
of having language utterly fail to communicate. Now imagine that this nonsense
issues from your own lips. Luckily, not everyone is equally vulnerable to the
virus. Polyglots and brainy throwbacks who read books on paper and keep journals
have some resistance, but the cyber-reliant legions who read only ''limns'' on
screens (i.e., most people) make easy targets.

In Graedon's tomorrow-world, the web has invaded human life even more
aggressively than it has today. Hand-held devices called ''Memes'' are so
attuned to owners' habits and tastes that they have nearly psychic powers
(deciding what their hosts should order at restaurants, hailing a cab unbidden),
and they discreetly flash the definitions of ''obscure'' words whose precise
meanings their under-read owners have forgotten, like ''ambivalent'' and
''cynical.'' The newest variety of Meme, the Nautilus, doesn't even need a
screen. It sticks to the skin like a glinting silver leech, beaming digital
information directly into the user's neural pathways and mining them for data.

For a while, the afflicted don't realize they're sick. Accustomed to inexact
language, they don't notice when opportunistic cyberfiends from the evil
consortium Synchronic, Inc., buy up the rights to every word in the dictionary
and start transmitting phony neologisms into Memes, minds and mouths. What's in
it for Synchronic? Well, the linguistic profiteers (correctly) anticipate that
the human compulsion to understand and to be understood is so overpowering that
once incomprehensible coinages (like ''vzung'' ''eezow,'' ''jeedu'' and
''naypek,'' to name a few) start popping up on their devices and on their
tongues, Meme users will pay 25 cents per word to have the nonsense-ologisms
instantaneously defined. By monetizing the impulse to verbal laziness, the
speculators stand to make billions. Or rather they do until their client base
succumbs to the unforeseen babble pandemic. Who can rescue the world from this
plague of idiocy?

Clever, breathless and sportively Hegelian in theme (the book has three sections
-- Thesis, Antithesis and Synthesis), ''The Word Exchange'' combines the jaunty
energy of youngish adult fiction (boyfriend trouble, parent conflicts, peer
pressure and post-collegiate jitters) with the spine-tingling chill of the
science-­fiction conspiracy genre. Graedon's 27-year-old heroine, Anana Johnson,
is the loving, impulsive, creative but ''relatively average'' daughter of the
''genius'' lexicographer Douglas Samuel Johnson, longtime editor of the North
American Dictionary of the English Language (NADEL). As the novel begins, Dr.
Johnson has gone missing, and foul play seems very likely. Anana (named for her
father's favorite fruit, the pineapple -- ananas in French) worries terribly
about Doug (as she calls her father), but troubles of her own slow her sleuthing
-- like her breakup with selfish Max, a ­cybergenius with murky ties to
Synchronic, or the confusing attentions she's getting from her father's deputy
at NADEL, a bookish young etymologist named Bart. And then there's the awkward
Thanksgiving holiday she must spend with her mother, Vera, and Vera's pompous
new boyfriend, Laird. Moreover, Anana is starting to talk kind of funny.

Can she dodge the thugs of the Synchronic mafia and uncover the secret behind
her father's disappearance before the language virus incapacitates her? Members
of the Diachronic Society, an underground band of word purists loyal to Dr.
Johnson (yes, Doug and the Diachronic disciples are well aware of his renowned
forerunner), certainly hope so, but they have their doubts about Anana's
suitability as an avenger, despite her impressive judo skills. For one thing,
unlike her erudite parent, she's ''addicted to Meme''; for another, ''Clues must
be v. obvious in order for her to find them.'' Nonetheless they concede that
Anana is ''highly motivated'' to find Doug, as well as ''pretty enough to
receive slightly preferential treatment,'' though ''not so pretty as to stand
out in a crowd.'' Flawed or not, she will have to do.

In the manner of most heroines who find favor with broad audiences, Graedon's
Anana is brave but not terribly perceptive. The author has taken care to make
her character suspensefully benighted -- and to keep her that way. As the
lexicographer's daughter stumbles from one dangerous encounter to another, the
reader endures continual waves of panic, like a spectator at a slasher film
watching through louvered fingers as the victim-to-be answers the phone, climbs
into the dark attic or walks toward a car in an abandoned lot.

Should Anana descend into the sub-basement of her father's office building after
hours to find out what's causing that burning smell and those alarming thuds? Is
it wise for her to linger alone in her apartment right after it's been
ransacked? Would a prudent person unbolt the door when a demented, raving
visitor rings the bell? Again and again, you want to shout, ''Don't do it!''
Graedon makes you wring your hands for her heroine -- and tremble for the future
of the English language throughout her 26 chapters, achieving the singular feat
of turning the alphabet into a cliffhanger.

As much fun as Graedon has with her Borgesian doomsday scenario, her novel folds
serious meditations on language and society into its manhunt. The story is
carried forward in alternating first-person accounts by Anana and by the
besotted etymologist Bart, who struggles to decode his feelings for Anana and
collate his philosophical and philological pensées, some of which originate from
Anana's father's sage pronouncements. Sharing this trove of word-forged
associations and impressions may be, he believes, ''the only means for linking
consciousnesses,'' and thereby the only path to love. But can the wordsmith woo
his lady when, despite his ability to read eight languages and regardless of the
fact that he has devoured libraries of hard-bound volumes, words like
''zhaman,'' ''krishka,'' ''pinshee'' and ''shirsom'' begin to infest his speech?
Can he overcome the viral rush of stupidity that assails him? And, by the way,
what has become of the good Dr. Johnson? At a time when a lapsus linguae can be
as deadly as a knife in the back, it's hardly surprising that he's in no rush to
come to the phone.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/05/04/books/review/the-word-exchange-by-alena-graedo
n.html

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ERIC NYQUIST)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 4, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Witches, Monsters and Men in Tights

BYLINE: By ANITA GATES

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 13239 words


Yes, Scarlett Johansson wakes up with superpowers and takes no prisoners, but
the season isn't totally about would-be action blockbusters. Philip Seymour
Hoffman gifts us with two posthumous performances, as a blue-collar American
loser and as a powerful German spy. Documentaries explore a dizzying range of
topics, including legal marijuana, the war in Afghanistan, breast-feeding and
the Koch brothers. And climate change rears its plot-driving head, ready to
replace midcentury nuclear testing as the villain in sci-fi and futurist
fantasies.

While it's raining sequels -- about Spider-Man, Transformers, Expendables,
talking turtles, talking apes and animated dragons -- at least two directors are
brave enough to take on material from Broadway: Clint Eastwood and Roman
Polanski. Road movies are going in all directions. Filmmakers reveal their
fascination with evil -- its nature, our moral duty to fight it and its
embodiment in a witch with perfect cheekbones (Angelina Jolie). And Woody Allen
goes back to France. It's going to be an eventful few months.

ï»¿All dates are subject to change.

May

ALREADY OPENED

ALTERED STATES OF PLAINE Emanuel Plaine has an odd problem in this
science-fiction-tinged psychological drama. Every time he falls asleep, he wakes
up in a different part of the world, often naked -- in the desert, in Arctic
snows, on the New York subway. Government agents are after him, but he just
wants to be cured. George Gallagher stars. Nick Gaglia directed.

THE AMAZING SPIDER-MAN 2 Corporations may not be people, but Peter Parker,
a.k.a. Spider-Man, is beginning to think they can be villains. Why does
everything bad lead back to Oscorp? Andrew Garfield returns as the web-swinging
superhero, along with Emma Stone as his girlfriend and Dane DeHaan as his old
friend (or so it seems) Harry. Jamie Foxx looks very scary as Electro, who
lights up Times Square in excessive ways. It's 3-D, it's Imax, and it's directed
by Marc Webb, who did the first ''Amazing Spider-Man.''

APOCALYPSE: A BILL CALLAHAN TOUR FILM Performances and glimpses of life
backstage during a 2011 tour by Mr. Callahan, the singer, songwriter and
guitarist who used to perform under the band name Smog. Hanly Banks directed
this documentary.

BAD JOHNSON In this comedy from Huck Botko, a shameless womanizer (Cam Gigandet)
wakes up one day and finds his favorite part of his genitalia missing. It has
turned into a human being, it causes nothing but trouble, and it wants its own
iPhone. Nick Thune plays the penis.

BELLE She was the illegitimate mixed-race daughter of a Royal Navy admiral.
Raised by the indubitably white Lord Mansfield (Tom Wilkinson) and his wife
(Emily Watson), who come to adore her but still won't let her eat dinner with
the family, she grows up in 18th-century Merchant Ivory-style splendor. Belle
(Gugu Mbatha-Raw) is courted by a white vicar's son (James Norton), but her real
contribution is that Lord Mansfield went on to lead the fight to make slavery
illegal in England. Directed by Amma Asante.

BENEATH THE HARVEST SKY We've gotta get out of this place. Two teenage boys who
have grown up as friends in a small Maine town on the Canadian border decide to
buy a car together and escape. Except one of the guys works one last potato
harvest, and the other goes into drug smuggling. Starring Emory Cohen and Callan
McAuliffe. Directed by Aron Gaudet and Gita Pullapilly.

BLOOD GLACIER So you think it's going to be bad when the ice caps melt and sea
levels rise? This Austrian horror movie set high in the Alps has news for us:
Melting ice may also unleash a flow of a strange red liquid, one that mutates
the local wildlife into killing monsters. Gerhard Liebmann stars as the head
scientist facing these scary creatures. Marvin Kren directed.

DECODING ANNIE PARKER Samantha Morton plays a woman with breast cancer who has
already lost her mother and her sister to the disease. Helen Hunt is a
geneticist who is convinced of a connection between cancer and DNA, although the
medical establishment of the time disagrees (she began her work in the 1970s).
Inspired by a true story that concludes with the discovery of the ''breast
cancer gene'' BRCA1. With Aaron Paul, Rashida Jones and Maggie Grace. Steven
Bernstein directed.

DOCUMENTED Jose Antonio Vargas's parents sent him to the United States when he
was 12. It was years before he knew he was in the country illegally. In a 2011
article in The New York Times Magazine, Mr. Vargas, who had managed to go to
college and become a journalist, confessed. This documentary, which he directed
with Ann Raffaela Lupo, shows what happened next.

FOR A WOMAN A Frenchwoman whose mother is dying tries to uncover the hidden past
of her parents, who met in the Nazi death camps, and a mysterious stranger they
took in after the end of World War II. Is he an uncle? From the Lyon-born
director, writer and actress Diane Kurys (''Entre Nous''). Sylvie Testud,
MÃ©lanie Thierry and BenoÃ®t Magimel star.

FRIENDED TO DEATH An indie comedy about Facebook. A Los Angeles parking cop
(Ryan Hansen) is feeling down after losing his job and his best friend, so he
fakes his death on social media. Encouraged by 22 ''likes,'' he decides to stage
a funeral, too. Written and directed by Sarah Smick.

IDA A young woman in 1962 Poland, all prepared to become a nun, discovers she's
Jewish. This drama, which won a special prize at the Toronto International Film
Festival last September, is the first film shot by the director Pawel
Pawlikowski (''Last Resort'') in his home country.

JOBRIATH A.D. Kieran Turner's documentary about the 1970s glam rocker Jobriath,
said to be the first openly gay singer to sign with a major label. He died of
complications from AIDS in 1983.

MORE THAN THE RAINBOW For everyone who believes that every day in New York ought
to be lived to a jazz score, this New York documentary has one, mostly by
Thelonious Monk. It's the story of Matt Weber, a taxi driver who began
photographing the city's street life three decades ago. His method: ''Looking
and looking and pouncing. There always is a moment,'' he says. Directed by Dan
Wechsler.

NOW: IN THE WINGS ON A WORLD STAGE If you missed Kevin Spacey's ''Richard III''
when he brought it to the Brooklyn Academy of Music two years ago, you can now
at least see excerpts of his performance in this documentary, directed by Jeremy
Whelehan. The subject is a 10-month international tour of the production,
directed by Sam Mendes.

PALABRAS MÃGICAS (PARA ROMPER UN ENCANTAMIENTO A documentary, directed by
Mercedes Moncada RodrÃ­guez, about the Nicaraguan civil war. The title means
''Magic Words for Breaking a Spell.''

THE PROTECTOR 2 An extreme-fight sequel, directed by Prachya Pinkaew. Tony Jaa
stars as a man on the run, accused of a murder he didn't commit. RZA plays a
crime lord who wants him for his underground martial-arts ring. An abducted pet
elephant is also involved.

RUMSTICK ROAD A re-creation of Spalding Gray's Wooster Group stage show about
his mother's life and suicide. Elizabeth LeCompte and Ken Kobland directed.

SPEAK THE MUSIC: ROBERT MANN AND THE MYSTERIES OF CHAMBER MUSIC A documentary
about Mr. Mann, who has been a violinist with the Juilliard String Quartet for
decades, and his music. Directed by Allan Miller.

UNCLAIMED A Vietnam veteran working in Southeast Asia tries to help an American
who says he has been a soldier missing in action. A documentary written and
directed by Michael Jorgensen.

WALK OF SHAME The night before her big job interview, a TV reporter (Elizabeth
Banks) in Los Angeles goes out drinking with her gal pals and leaves the bar
with a gorgeous guy (James Marsden). What could go wrong? Well, the next
morning, she finds herself with no car, no money and no ID. Thank goodness it's
a comedy, directed by Steven Brill.

WEDNESDAY

BREASTMILK When the very personal becomes very political. Dana Ben-Ari, a
first-time filmmaker, devotes this documentary to the questions and
controversies that surround breast-feeding.

LLYN FOULKES: ONE-MAN BAND Mr. Foulkes is a late bloomer, not really catching
fire until he was 50 or so. At 79, he's still hard at work (he was at the
exhibition Documenta in Kassel, Germany, in 2012) with both art and music. This
documentary, directed by Tamar Halpern and Chris Quilty, honors this Los Angeles
artist (''Bloody Heads,'' postcard-inspired landscapes) and musician (he created
an instrument he calls the Machine, sort of a xylophone-drum with scavenged car
horns) who has specialized in moral indignation for many years.

SOL LEWITT LeWitt (1928-2007) was a reclusive, Connecticut-born artist --
unpretentious, an anti-celebrity -- who made his name as an American Minimalist
and Conceptualist, best known for his colorful wall paintings and his 3-D
structures (he didn't like the word sculpture), some made of cement blocks. He
also once worked for Seventeen magazine and for the architect I. M. Pei. Chris
Teerink wrote and directed this documentary.

FRIDAY

CHAPMAN Justin Owensby makes his feature-film directorial debut in a low-budget
indie about a young man who returns home to Colorado to deal with a long-ago
tragedy that ended a childhood friendship. Jesse Johnson and Christopher
Masterson star.

CHEF A Los Angeles chef has finally had enough mistreatment, leaves his fancy
restaurant job and starts a food-truck business in Miami, hoping to recapture
his zest for life and food. A Jon Favreau special -- directed by, written by and
starring. Sofia Vergara plays his ex-wife and Dustin Hoffman his restaurant
boss.

DEVIL'S KNOT Three teenagers are accused of killing three little boys in West
Memphis, Ark., as part of a satanic ritual. Reese Witherspoon stars as the
mother of one of the victims, and Colin Firth plays an investigator. Directed by
Atom Egoyan (''The Sweet Hereafter'').

DAMNATION Ben Knight and Travis Rummel's argument for seeing huge dams as
environmental disasters rather than engineering marvels, pulling them down and
watching America's rivers bound back to life. It won the documentary Audience
Award at South by Southwest this year.

THE DOUBLE A comedy based on a Dostoyevsky novella, and why not? Or think of it
as ''The Nutty Professor'' without the magic elixir. Jesse Eisenberg stars as a
pathetic office clerk, afraid of his boss (Wallace Shawn) and his own shadow,
whose life changes when a man who looks exactly like him turns up. But his
doppelgÃ¤nger is confident and successful, and women love him. Richard Ayoade
directed.

FARMLAND Some Americans actually do still farm, as this documentary from James
Moll proves. He visits six very young (in their 20s) farmers and ranchers,
responsible for operations that range from beef cattle in Texas to organic crops
in California.

FED UP Stephanie Soechtig's documentary has an answer for why so many American
children today are obese and are likely to have shorter life spans than their
parents: a 30-year campaign by the food industry (enabled by the government, Ms.
Soechtig's film suggests) to mislead and confuse consumers, and it worked.

GOD'S POCKET Philip Seymour Hoffman, who died in February, plays a well-meaning
blue-collar schlub trying to cover up the death of his stepson in what looked
like but may not have been a construction accident. The film, adapted from Pete
Dexter's novel, has major ''Mad Men'' connections: John Slattery (a.k.a. Roger
Sterling) directed. Christina Hendricks (a.k.a. Joan Holloway Harris) plays Mr.
Hoffman's wife.

LEGENDS OF OZ: DOROTHY'S RETURN Lots of Hollywood and Broadway celebrity voices,
including Bernadette Peters as the Good Witch Glinda (was there ever any
question?), Jim Belushi as the Cowardly Lion, Dan Aykroyd as the Scarecrow and
Martin Short as a new villain, the Jester. And Lea Michele, bless her heart,
gets to play Dorothy, who is returning to Oz in this animated 3-D musical for
reasons explained in a newish book by L. Frank Baum's great-grandson.

MOMS' NIGHT OUT A comedy with Sarah Drew, Patricia Heaton, Trace Adkins and Sean
Astin about some women who just want a nice dinner and evening with fellow
grown-ups, so they ask the dads to watch the kids. A lot of people end up in a
police station. Directed by the brothers Andrew Erwin and Jon Erwin.

NEIGHBORS Life is idyllic for Seth Rogen's character, his wife (Rose Byrne) and
their newborn baby girl until an entire fraternity moves in next door. Zac Efron
leads the charge for Delta Psi Beta. There are raucous parties, noise complaints
and comic retaliation. Directed by Nicholas Stoller, who did ''Forgetting Sarah
Marshall.''

PALO ALTO Gia Coppola (the 27-year-old granddaughter of Francis Ford Coppola and
niece of Sofia Coppola) directs a drama about teenagers. Emma Roberts plays the
class virgin, who proceeds to get involved with a single dad, the high school
soccer coach (James Franco). Jack Kilmer, whose parents are Val Kilmer and
Joanne Whalley, makes his acting debut.

STAGE FRIGHT Some people really hate musical theater. A horror comedy from
Jerome Sable, set in a summer camp for kids who want to be
singing-dancing-acting Broadway stars. They're being terrorized by a masked
killer. Minnie Driver and Meat Loaf are in the cast.

STILL I STRIVE At a Cambodian orphanage, children work toward the honor of
performing in a show for Princess Bopha Devi. Adam Pfleghaar and A. Todd Smith
directed this documentary.

MAY 14

AMERICAN JESUS A documentary from Spain, directed by Aram Garriga, looking at
the strong and conflicting attitudes about Christianity in the United States.
Talking to secularists as well as ministers, he explores the connections between
faith, materialism and politics.

HORSES OF GOD From Morocco, in French and Arabic, a drama about the men involved
in the suicide bombings in Casablanca in 2003. Nabil Ayouch directed.

MAY 16

AI WEIWEI: THE FAKE CASE Chinese authorities charged Ai Weiwei, the conceptual
artist, with what they said at one point were economic crimes. But it may all
have been about his record as an outspoken human rights advocate and critic of
the government. Andreas Johnsen's documentary follows him during his year of
house arrest.

THE AMERICAN NURSE The lives of five nurses, including a military R.N. in San
Diego and a nun who runs a nursing home. A documentary written and directed by
Carolyn Jones.

CHINESE PUZZLE CÃ©dric Klapisch completes his travels-of-Xavier trilogy, with
his characters from ''L'Auberge Espagnole'' (2002) and ''Russian Dolls'' (2005),
all fortyish now. Xavier (Romain Duris) leaves Paris to follow his ex-wife
(Kelly Reilly) and their children to begin a new life -- or at least an
adventure -- in New York City. Audrey Tautou and CÃ©cile de France also return
as their characters from the first two films.

COLD BLOOM A post-tsunami Japanese drama about a widow and the possibility of
new love. Marika Matsumoto, Riki Miura and Takahiro Miura star. Atsushi
Funahashi directed.

CYBER-SENIORS Teenage mentors introduce people of retirement age and way beyond,
some of whom wouldn't know a laptop from a surge protector, to the digital
world. The next thing you know, an 89-year-old woman is making her own cooking
video and bragging about how many views it has. A documentary from Saffron
Cassaday, an actress making her directorial debut.

THE DISCOVERERS Griffin Dunne makes a comeback, playing a history professor
whose career has hit the community-college skids, on a car trip with his
teenagers, en route to a conference. Unfortunately he loses his father (Stuart
Margolin) during a Lewis and Clark re-enactment. A dysfunctional-family road
movie written and directed by Justin Schwarz.

DON PEYOTE A comedy about doomsday craziness. Josh Duhamel, Anne Hathaway,
Topher Grace, Dan Fogler and Jay Baruchelstar in the story of an unemployed
stoner who becomes obsessed with end-of-the-world theories while his tolerant
fiancÃ©e is just trying to plan their wedding. Written and directed by Mr.
Fogler and Michael Canzoniero.

GODZILLA Oh, Bryan Cranston (meth king on television, L.B.J. on Broadway), if
anyone can stop a giant radioactive lizard monster and make us see the folly of
human scientific arrogance, you can. The last American remake of the 1954
Japanese original was a whole 16 years ago, so Gozira (his original Japanese
name) is back, this time in 3-D and Imax and so large the screen can barely
contain it. With David Strathairn, Ken Watanabe, Juliette Binoche and Elizabeth
Olsen. Gareth Edwards directed.

HALF OF A YELLOW SUN Chiwetel Ejiofor (of ''12 Years a Slave''), Thandie Newton
and Anika Noni Rose star in a drama about two English-educated Nigerian sisters
whose behavior shocks their family during their country's civil war. Biyi
Bandele wrote and directed.

HANNA RANCH This documentary focuses on Kirk Hanna, who has become known as an
eco-rancher in Colorado. In addition to environmentalism, Mitch Dickman's
documentary deals with three generations of ranchers and major family quarrels.

THE IMMIGRANT Set in 1920s New York, this drama stars Marion Cotillard as a
Polish immigrant, just off the boat, and on her own in the big city. She meets a
real charmer (Joaquin Phoenix) who forces her to become a prostitute. Her only
salvation may be the man's cousin (Jeremy Renner), a magician. Directed by James
Gray.

MILLION DOLLAR ARM Jon Hamm, with only a half-season of ''Mad Men'' left, stars
as a sports agent whose career is on life support. In a desperate move, he goes
to India to scout cricket players who could be baseball pitchers. With Aasif
Mandvi (everybody's favorite Mumbai-born ''Daily Show'' correspondent), Alan
Arkin, Bill Paxton and Lake Bell. It's another way ''Jerry Maguire'' might have
gone.

NEXT YEAR JERUSALEM Eight Connecticut nursing-home residents take the words of
the Passover Seder prayer literally (although they aren't all Jewish), fly to
Israel and take a 10-day bus tour, seeing it as their final big adventure. David
Gaynes directed.

A NIGHT IN OLD MEXICO Robert Duvall as a craggy Texas rancher, who has been
forced to abandon his land, heading out on one last wild road trip, this time
with his grandson (Jeremy Irvine), whom he has just met. Angie Cepeda plays the
woman they meet across the border. From the Cuban-born Spanish director Emilio
AragÃ³n.

A PEOPLE UNCOUNTED: THE UNTOLD STORY OF THE ROMA A documentary directed by Aaron
Yeger about the equally romanticized and vilified people once known only as
Gypsies. Interviews with Roma artists, historians, musicians and Holocaust
survivors in 11 countries.

A SHORT HISTORY OF DECAY Bryan Greenberg plays a Brooklyn hipster who comes down
with a bad case of writer's block after his girlfriend breaks up with him.
Things change on a long visit to Florida, where he spends time with his parents
(Linda Lavin and Harris Yulin) and is attracted to his mother's manicurist
(Kathleen Rose Perkins). Directed by Michael Maren.

WOLF CREEK 2 A crazy serial killer (John Jarratt) in the Australian Outback. A
horror thriller sequel directed by Greg Mclean.

MAY 23

THE ANGRIEST MAN IN BROOKLYN Robin Williams plays the title role in this comic
drama about an extremely unpleasant man with a brain aneurysm whose doctor (Mila
Kunis) tells him he has 90 minutes to live. She just says it because he's being
so obnoxious, but he sets out to make rapid amends -- with everyone. The
supporting cast includes Peter Dinklage, James Earl Jones, Melissa Leo, Hamish
Linklater and Sutton Foster. From Phil Alden Robinson, who did ''Field of
Dreams.''

BLENDED Adam Sandler and Drew Barrymore's characters meet on a -- what else? --
truly disastrous blind date. Then they move on. Until both, with their
respective children in tow, end up on the same family-package vacation in South
Africa. Directed by Frank Coraci.

COLD IN JULY There goes Michael C. Hall (the serial killer in Showtime's
''Dexter''), doing people in again. But this time it's self-defense -- a burglar
who's invaded his Texas home. His actions make him a local hero but also bring
the dead burglar's ex-con father (Sam Shepard) to town, seeking revenge. Many
things, however, are not what they seem. A detective named Jim Bob (Don Johnson)
may be able to help. Directed by Jim Mickle and based on the novel by Joe R.
Lansdale.

THE DANCE OF REALITY Alejandro Jodorowsky's first film in more than two decades
(''The Rainbow Thief'' was in 1990) is an autobiographical story of his
childhood in Chile, filmed in his hometown. Mr. Jodorowsky, 85, appears as
himself, and Jeremias Herskovits plays the young Alejandro.

GORE VIDAL: THE UNITED STATES OF

AMNESIAHe wrote novels, essays. screenplays and stage plays. And when he died in
2012 at the age of 86, his obituary in The New York Times summed him up as a
''man of letters.'' In this documentary, directed by Nicholas Wrathall, Vidal's
nearest and dearest and a raft of others (including Mikhail Gorbachev and Dick
Cavett) talk about him, and Vidal himself gives his last on-screen interviews,
fearless to the end.

GRAND DÃ[0/00]PART Clearly, trente is the new dix-huit. Remember when
coming-of-age stories were about teenagers? This drama from France and the
director Nicolas Mercier is about a man becoming an adult at 30. Pio MarmaÃ¯
stars as Romain, who finally decides, as the health of his father (Eddy
Mitchell) declines, to stand up to his brother (JÃ©rÃ©mie ElkaÃ¯m).

THE HORNET'S NEST A documentary about elite American troops on a special mission
in Afghanistan. A father-and-son team of television journalists, Mike Boettcher
and Carlos Boettcher, embedded themselves with the Army's 101st Airborne
Division in an operation in Kunar Province that lasted nine days. David Salzberg
and Christian Tureaud directed.

LILA LILA An insecure young waiter happens upon a brilliant unpublished
manuscript. The pretty customer he's crushing on insists it be published, she
gets her way, and it becomes a best seller. Then the real author, a disheveled
older man, shows up. Didn't we just see this with Bradley Cooper and Jeremy
Irons (''The Words'')? But this time it's a romantic comedy and in German.
Directed by Alain Gsponer.

THE LOVE PUNCH Emma Thompson and Pierce Brosnan as a divorced couple whose
retirement funds are stolen by a crooked businessman. In this caper, set in and
around Paris, they set out to steal their money back. Written and directed by
Joel Hopkins.

STAND CLEAR OF THE CLOSING DOORS In Sam Fleischner's drama, an autistic
13-year-old boy becomes lost in the New York subway system. To complicate
things, his mother is afraid to go to the authorities because she's an illegal
immigrant, and Hurricane Sandy is on its way. Jesus Sanchez-Velez plays the boy.

WORDS AND PICTURES Juliette Binoche is an art teacher who says that words are
lies and pictures are truth. Clive Owen is an English teacher who disagrees.
They enlist their students to settle the question, and faculty flirtation
ensues. A romantic comedy drama directed by Fred Schepisi, who seemed to be on
the side of art when he did ''Six Degrees of Separation.''

X-MEN: DAYS OF FUTURE PAST The seventh movie about X-Men brings back Bryan
Singer, who directed the first two, and introduces the older mutants (played by
the likes of Patrick Stewart and Ian McKellen) to their younger selves (the
likes of James McAvoy, Michael Fassbender and Jennifer Lawrence) in a
time-travel plot. Wolverine (Hugh Jackman) has to go back to the 1970s to change
some major historical event or it will mean the end of humanity. The
news-getting addition to the cast, though, is Peter Dinklage, of ''Game of
Thrones,'' as Bolivar Trask, a mastermind who controls giant killer robots but
whom Mr. Dinklage has said he prefers not to see as a villain, just a ''man of
science.''

MAY 28

GEBO AND THE SHADOW Claudia Cardinale, Jeanne Moreau and Michael Lonsdale are
babies compared with their director here, the Portuguese filmmaker Manoel de
Oliveira, 105. His first film was a 1931 documentary short. His latest is a
drama, set in 19th-century Paris, about a poor patriarch who sacrifices himself
for his son.

THE LIFE AND CRIMES OF DORIS PAYNE A lovable real-life international jewel
thief. Kirk Marcolina and Matthew Pond'sdocumentary traces Ms. Payne's life from
single African-American mom in the segregated mid-20th century to glamorous
figure in Monte Carlo. She is in her 80s now.

MAY 30

AGE OF UPRISING: THE LEGEND OF MICHAEL KOHLHAAS From a classic 19th-century
German novella, inspired by a 16th-century case, this revenge drama has been
relocated to 16th-century France. Mads Mikkelsen stars as a horse trader who is
robbed and humiliated by the local lord and, unable to find justice in the
courts of the day, simply leads a bloody rebellion against him. The film won two
CÃ©sar awards and was nominated for four more. Directed by Arnaud des
PalliÃ¨res.

L'Ã[0/00]CHANGE A French political hostage drama. Masked Russian terrorists
burst into an elementary school classroom and kidnap the son of the defense
minister (Lucile Jaillant). Only an extraordinary man -- an extraordinary man
with killer biceps (Jacques Stival, who also wrote the screenplay) -- can save
the day. The film credits four directors, including Jerome Leonard.

ELENA A Brazilian documentary about running away to become an American actress.
In 1989 a young South American woman moved to New York in hopes of becoming a
movie star, but after a while her letters stopped and she was lost to her
family, including a 7-year-old sister. Two decades later that sister (Petra
Costa, the director) followed her own career dreams to New York and set out to
find Elena.

EMOTICON ;) Don't graduate students have enough problems? In a comedy that she
wrote (with Sarah Nerboso) and directed, Livia De Paolis stars as a doctoral
candidate in anthropology who runs into difficulties communicating when she
meets the savvy New York teenage son and daughter (Miles Chandler and Diane
Guerrero) of her much older boyfriend (Michael Cristofer). She wants to learn to
deal with love and intimacy in the digital age. Luckily, her faculty adviser is
Carol Kane.

FILTH James McAvoy as a drug-addicted bipolar Scottish police detective
desperate to win a promotion. A comic crime drama directed by Jon S. Baird and
based on a novel by Irvine Welsh, who also wrote ''Trainspotting.'' The cast
also includes Imogen Poots, Jamie Bell and Jim Broadbent.

THE GRAND SEDUCTION How far will a group of desperate townspeople go to persuade
a young big-city doctor to stay in their little fishing village and practice
there? Taylor Kitsch plays the doctor; Brendan Gleeson is the local who leads
the campaign to seduce him. Don McKellar directed this comedy, set in the
fictional town of Tickle Head.

KORENGAL Sebastian Junger's follow-up to his and Tim Hetherington's
Oscar-nominated ''Restrepo'' (2010). This documentary covers the same war (in
Afghanistan) and the same men who fought there (the 2-503) but looks at the
inner soldier, exploring the nature of fear, courage and guilt. Mr. Hetherington
was killed in 2011, covering the civil war in Libya, but much of his camera work
is here.

LUCKY THEM The music journalism scene in Seattle is the setting for this drama.
Toni Collette stars as a rock reporter assigned, against her will, to learn what
happened to a famous musician who disappeared 10 years ago. He also happened to
be her boyfriend. With Thomas Haden Church as her traveling companion, Oliver
Platt as her boss and Ryan Eggold as a street musician. Megan Griffiths
directed.

MALEFICENT Really, what else is Angelina Jolie to do as she faces 39? She hasn't
starred in a live-action picture since ''The Tourist'' in 2010, but she is
stunningly beautiful (despite an impossible headdress and giant wings) in Disney
3-D and stunningly evil as the woman who curses the infant, Aurora, who grows up
to become Sleeping Beauty (Elle Fanning). And we find out why Maleficent is such
a cruel witch. Robert Stromberg, an Oscar- and Emmy-winning art director, makes
his directorial debut.

A MILLION WAYS TO DIE IN THE WEST Seth MacFarlane moves on from talking plush
animals (''Ted'') to the tale of a cowardly sheep farmer (Mr. MacFarlane),
gunfights, dangerous outlaws and beautiful women. With a wild and woolly cast
including Charlize Theron, Amanda Seyfried, Neil Patrick Harris, Sarah Silverman
and Liam Neeson.

NIGHT MOVES An ecoterrorism thriller directed by Kelly Reichardt. Jesse
Eisenberg, Dakota Fanning and Peter Sarsgaard star as environmentalists with
plans to blow up a dam. Not the summer's only dam movie.

WE ARE THE BEST! Three misfit teenage girls form the world's worst punk band in
1980s Stockholm in this comedy. Considered a return to romantic form for the
Swedish director Lukas Moodysson, whose first big films were ''Show Me Love''
and ''Together.'' Mira Barkhammar, Mira Grosin and Liv LeMoyne star.

June

ï»¿JUNE 6

ALL THE LOST SOULS Emotional misery in Prague. A drug-addicted young Indian
actress (Auritra Ghosh) betrays her British boyfriend (Jim High), an out-of-work
actor, with a banker turned filmmaker (Jared Doreck), who is dealing with his
own guilt and grief. Directed by Ahmed Faiyaz, based on his own short story and
filmed in English in the Czech Republic.

ANNA A thriller about a 16-year-old girl (Taissa Farmiga, Vera's little sister)
who is either a sociopath or a horribly traumatized victim. One detective (Mark
Strong) may be able to figure out which, because he has the power to enter
people's minds and memories. Directed by Jorge Dorado.

BORGMAN From the Netherlands, a domestic thriller about a strange vagrant (Jan
Bijvoet) who worms his way into a wealthy family's home and life. He says he's a
gardener, but he's more like Rasputin. Alex van Warmerdam wrote and directed
this dark, anti-upper-class examination of the nature of evil.

BURNING BLUE A romance-drama about a close-knit group of Navy pilots. A series
of fatal accidents on an aircraft carrier and a secret affair drive the plot.
With Trent Ford, Morgan Spector, Rob Mayes and Tammy Blanchard. Directed by D.
M. W. Greer.

BURT'S BUZZ A hippie news photographer drops out, leaves the city and becomes a
reclusive beekeeper. Oh, and then the head of a multimillion-dollar personal
products company. That's the story of Burt Shavitz, the founder of Burt's Bees.
Jody Shapiro, this documentary's director, visits Mr. Shavitz in Maine to get a
closer look at life off the grid.

THE CASE AGAINST 8 Proposition 8 was California's ban on same-sex marriage. Ben
Cotner and Ryan White's documentary, which won a directing award at the Sundance
Film Festival, follows the Supreme Court case that overturned the proposition
and spends five years following four of the plaintiffs.

LE CHEF Haute cuisine versus molecular gastronomy in Paris. Not to be confused
with Jon Favreau's American film ''Chef,'' which opens the previous month. This
French comedy stars Jean Reno as a star chef with a multi-Michelin-starred
restaurant whose boss (the chief executive of the parent company) wants him out.
To fight back, he teams up with a young aspiring chef (MichaÃ«l Youn) who so far
has demonstrated lots of culinary talent but no luck.

CITIZEN KOCH The name rhymes with joke. As in David and Charles Koch, the
ultraconservative billionaires who fostered the group called Americans for
Prosperity. This documentary from Carl Deal and Tia Lessin follows the money
behind the rise of the Tea Party and finds, to almost no one's surprise, that it
leads to the doors of very, very rich people.

DORMANT BEAUTY A French-Italian coproduction. Entwining stories are inspired by
the real-life experience of Eluano Englaro, who after a car accident remained in
a vegetative state for 17 years. The cast includes Isabelle Huppert, Toni
Servillo, Alba Rohrwacher, Michele Riondino, Maya Sansa and Pier Giorgio
Bellocchio. Filmed in Italy and directed by Marco Bellocchio.

EDGE OF TOMORROW Too bad they didn't just call it ''All You Need Is Kill,'' like
the book on which it's based. Instead, Tom Cruise and Doug Liman, the director,
are stuck with a 1950s soap opera title for this science fiction thriller with a
''Groundhog Day'' twist. Mr. Cruise is a military officer who is sent to fight
invading space aliens, has never seen combat before and is killed on his first
time out. Then he relives the day again and again -- and keeps getting better at
fighting. Emily Blunt plays a ''special forces warrior.''

THE FAULT IN OUR STARS Midwestern teenagers in love. But their future is bleak;
they met in a cancer support group. Shailene Woodley (''The Descendants,''
''Divergent'') is Hazel. Ansel Elgort, a newcomer who was in the recent remake
of ''Carrie'' (as well as Ms. Woodley's co-star in ''Divergent''), is Gus. Based
on the best-selling young adult novel by John Green. Directed by Josh Boone.

OBVIOUS CHILD Gillian Robespierre has written and directed what can be fairly
called an abortion comedy. After her boyfriend breaks up with her, an aspiring
Brooklyn comedian (Jenny Slate) in her 20s has a one-night stand to comfort
herself and finds herself pregnant. Will she or won't she terminate? With Jake
Lacy, Gaby Hoffmann, Richard Kind and Polly Draper.

PING-PONG SUMMER During his family's summer vacation in Ocean City, Md., in
1985, a young boy (Marcello Conte) falls in love with Ping-Pong. Susan Sarandon,
America's most famous Ping-Pong fan, heads the cast. Written and directed by
Michael Tully.

THE SACRAMENT The Jonestown massacre meets ''The Blair Witch Project.'' A couple
of journalists with a shaky grip on their hand-held video camera help a friend
look for his sister, only to find her in a rural cult ruled over by a nutcase
(Gene Jones). The whole group is preparing for a mass suicide. With Joe Swanberg
and A J Bowen. Ti West directed.

SUPERMENSCH: THE LEGEND OF SHEP GORDON He's the guy who first threw a chicken at
Alice Cooper onstage. He gave Mike Myers major trouble during the making of
''Wayne's World.'' Now Mr. Myers has directed this documentary to introduce us
to the most outrageous Hollywood insider we'd never heard of till now. Mr.
Gordon is a talent manager, music manager and producer whose clients have
included star singers (Cooper, Luther Vandross) and celebrity chefs (Emeril
Lagasse). Michael Douglas, Sylvester Stallone and other Hollywood heavyweights
affirm his importance.

TRUST ME Clark Gregg stars as a down-on-his-luck Hollywood agent for child
actors who discovers his first acting prodigy (Saxon Sharbino) in ages.
Characters played by Sam Rockwell, Amanda Peet, Allison Janney and Felicity
Huffman complicate his life and this new accomplishment. Mr. Gregg also wrote
and directed.

2 AUTUMNS, 3 WINTERS A romantic comedy from France about a 33-year-old man who's
feeling a little lost when he meets a woman while jogging and decides she's the
one. Life is complicated by (a) his futile efforts to reconnect with her, (b)
his best friend's having a stroke and (c) the friend's speech therapist's being
so pretty. Written and directed by SÃ©bastien Betbeder. Starring Vincent
Macaigne, Maud Wyler, Bastien Bouillon and Audrey Bastien.

WILLOW CREEK A believer in Bigfoot goes to the California woods with video
camera. Bryce Johnson stars in this found-footage horror tale, with Alexie
Gilmore as the skeptical girlfriend. Bobcat Goldthwait wrote and directed.

JUNE 11

BURNING BUSH The Polish director Agnieszka Holland (''Europa, Europa'') offers
her latest, from the Czech Republic via HBO. Tatiana Pauhofova, Jaroslava
Pokorna and Petr Stach star in a drama about a Prague history student who in
1969 set himself on fire to protest the Soviet occupation of Czechoslovakia. As
a feature film, it won nine Czech Lions, the country's Oscar equivalent,
including best picture.

JUNE 13

ALL CHEERLEADERS DIE And they do, but not for long. Amazing, really, how many
sinister supernatural powers are lurking around American high schools, just
waiting to pounce. Caitlin Stasey stars as a high school girl with a grudge
against the football captain; a group attack on him has unexpected consequences.
A horror comedy written and directed by Lucky McKee and Chris Sivertson.

A COFFEE IN BERLIN Originally titled ''Oh Boy,'' this black-and-white comic
drama swept the Deutscher Filmpreis (Germany's Oscars) ceremony last year, with
seven awards, including best picture and best actor. Tom Schilling stars as a
recent college dropout who enthusiastically adopts the slacker lifestyle until
pretty much everything goes wrong, including the appearance of a fat girl from
grade school who may have revenge on her mind. Written and directed by Jan Ole
Gerster. With Michael Gwisdek and Friederike Kempter.

COHERENCE A little bit ''Twilight Zone,'' a little bit relationship drama. In
James Ward Byrkit's film, eight friends gather for a dinner party on the night
of an astrological anomaly and things get strange. It may help to be familiar
with SchrÃ¶dinger's cat or quantum decoherence.

EVERGREEN: THE ROAD TO LEGALIZATION Riley Morton's documentary about Washington
State's 2012 vote approving recreational marijuana use looks at how it happened
and what the impact has been.

HELLAWARE The New York art world is so phony, an aspiring photographer (Keith
Poulson) decides in this coming-of-age comedy. Looking for more authentic
subjects, he turns to a Delaware goth rap group, Young Torture Killers. Sophia
Takal plays his friend with benefits. Written and directed by Michael M.
Bilandic.

HELLION Aaron Paul continues his post-''Breaking Bad'' career as the useless
Texas father of a 13-year-old boy (Josh Wiggins) who is obsessed with dirt-bike
racing and well on his way to juvenile delinquency. But they both realize they
have to get their acts together after a younger son (Deke Garner) is sent away,
for his own good, to live with an aunt (Juliette Lewis). Written and directed by
Kat Candler.

HOW TO TRAIN YOUR DRAGON 2 The Vikings and the dragons have been friends since
the first film, but now there are complications and a new villain (the voice of
Djimon Hounsou) for our young hero, Hiccup (Jay Baruchel), to deal with, Lots of
other celebrity voices, too, among them Cate Blanchett's, Gerard Butler's and
Jonah Hill's. Animated, in 3-D and directed by Dean DeBlois.

I AM I Rachael is not the first visitor to a dementia patient to be mistaken for
someone else, but when her father (Kevin Tighe ) believes she is her own mother,
Rachael (Jocelyn Towne, who also directed and wrote the screenplay) decides to
go along with it. The deception does wonders for their communication, for a
while. With Simon Helberg and Jason Ritter.

IVORY TOWER What went wrong? College is so expensive that Americans now owe $1
trillion in student loan debt, yet the schools themselves are struggling
financially. In this documentary, Andrew Rossi, who directed ''Page One: Inside
The New York Times,'' looks at the situation, the economic models and asks
whether it's all worth it.

JIMI: ALL IS BY MY SIDE A bio-drama about Jimi Hendrix in the early days (the
mid-'60s, before Woodstock, before the Monterey Pop Festival, before ''Are You
Experienced?''). AndrÃ© Benjamin, a.k.a. AndrÃ© 3000 of OutKast, plays the title
role. With Imogen Poots (as Keith Richards's girlfriend at the time) and Andrew
Buckley (as Chas Chandler of the Animals). Written and directed by John Ridley,
who won an Oscar for the screenplay for ''12 Years a Slave.''

LIFE'S A BREEZE Hard economic times in Ireland. In this comic drama from Lance
Daly, an entire financially struggling family (Fionnula Flanagan, Pat Shortt and
Kelly Thornton) band together in hopes of finding a lost fortune in Dublin.

LULLABY A family drama starring Garrett Hedlund as the son who can't handle it
when his father (Richard Jenkins) announces that he wants to be removed from
life support in exactly 48 hours. Amy Adams turns up as the son's old love
interest and Jennifer Hudson plays a supportive nurse. Directed by Andrew
Levitas.

MANUSCRIPTS DON'T BURN From Iran and the filmmaker Mohammad Rasoulof, who has
been imprisoned in his home country because of his work, a drama about
state-sponsored censorship. The subject is an Iranian author writing his
memoirs, which cover his time as a political prisoner. Mr. Rasoulof has had his
cast and crew's names removed from all credits, for their own protection.

POLICEMAN From Israel, a drama about an elite antiterrorism unit. The group's
alpha male tries to deal with two complications: an accident during a rescue
mission and the appearance of Israeli political extremists who act exactly like
the terrorists these guys love to hate. Written and directed by Nadav Lapid. The
cast includes Yiftach Klein, Yaara Pelzig and Michael Moshonov.

THE ROVER Scene: The Australian Outback (a dangerous place to be in this
summer's films). Time: The future (10 years after the collapse of civilization).
Guy Pearce plays a man who is very angry after his car is stolen. Robert
Pattinson plays a wounded man the gang leaves behind. David MichÃ´d (''Animal
Kingdom'') directed this revenge drama.

THE SIGNAL Laurence Fishburne stars as a crazed genius hacker who likes to wear
a hazmat suit and lures three college students to his secret lab in New Mexico.
Brenton Thwaites plays the young man who gets the worst of it. A blend of sci-fi
thriller and road movie, directed by William Eubank.

TEST It's 1985 in San Francisco, and one young dancer (Scott Marlowe) actually
believes (briefly) that his biggest problem is being taken seriously as an
artist. This was also the era in which some people believed you could be
infected with H.I.V. by sweat and a time when any conversation that began with
''I got tested'' was almost sure to be a major downer. Matthew Risch plays an
older, wiser dancer. Chris Mason Johnson wrote and directed.

22 JUMP STREET Channing Tatum and Jonah Hill star in a sequel to their 2012
buddy-cop comedy, ''21 Jump Street.'' This time the partners go undercover as
college students, but one bonds with the football team and the other with the
art majors. Ice Cube and Nick Offerman play the same authority figures as
before. Phil Lord and Christopher Miller directed.

VIOLETTE The story of the French feminist author Violette Leduc (Emmanuelle
Devos) and her friend and mentor Simone de Beauvoir (Sandrine Kiberlain),
beginning in Paris in the 1940s. The illegitimate daughter of a servant, Leduc
(1907-72) is best known for her memoir ''La BÃ¢tarde'' (1964). Martin Provost
directed.

JUNE 18

VIDEO GAMES: THE MOVIE The industry, the history and thoughts about what it all
means. A documentary written and directed by Jeremy Snead, with appearances by
Wil Wheaton, Zach Braff and Sean Astin.

JUNE 20

FONZY No connection with the American television series ''Happy Days'' or with
Henry Winkler, a.k.a. the Fonz. This is a French comedy, directed by Isabella
Doval, about a Parisian fish deliveryman (JosÃ© Garcia, Ms. Doval's husband) who
once donated sperm, a lot of sperm, using the code name Fonzy. When he learns he
has 533 children, there are legal problems. If this sounds familiar, that's
because the screenplay is adapted from Ken Scott and Martin Petit's initial
script for what later became the Vince Vaughn film ''Delivery Man.''

JERSEY BOYS Clint Eastwood is not the first director you might think of to take
on the Tony-winning 2005 Broadway musical about the rise of Frankie Valli and
the Four Seasons (their hits included ''Walk Like a Man'' and ''Our Day Will
Come''). But here he is. John Lloyd Young, who plays Valli, is straight from the
original New York cast. Christopher Walken plays Gyp DeCarlo, a Hoboken Mafioso.

THE LAST SENTENCE In the 1930s, Sweden, finding itself wedged between Hitler's
Germany and Stalin's Soviet Union, chose silence. But there were exceptions,
including Torgny Segerstedt, a GÃ¶teborg newspaper editor who made his anti-Nazi
position loud and clear (and some of his countrymen very nervous). Jesper
Christensen plays Segerstedt in this drama with a clear message: We have a moral
duty to speak out against evil. With Pernilla August and Ulla Skoog. Directed by
Jan Troell.

MISS LOVELY From India, a thriller about making really trashy movies in Mumbai
in the 1980s. Two brothers (Nawazuddin Siddiqui and Anil George) find their
creative partnership shaken up when they meet an ingÃ©nue (Niharika Singh) with
a past. Which is usually an oxymoron. Directed by Ashim Ahluwalia.

THINK LIKE A MAN TOO Sometimes Hollywood just can't resist turning a self-help
book into a movie, and this is the second one based on Steve Harvey's, which
advises women on ways to get the upper hand in the battle of the sexes. The
cast, back from the 2012 original movie, includes Kevin Hart, Gabrielle Union,
Taraji P. Henson and Michael Ealy. This time the gang is in Las Vegas for a
wedding. Directed by Tim Story.

THIRD PERSON A bevy of stars -- among them Liam Neeson, Mila Kunis, James
Franco, Olivia Wilde, Maria Bello and Adrien Brody -- in a romantic drama set in
Rome, Paris and New York, as they all should be. Written and directed by Paul
Haggis (''In the Valley of Elah'').

VENUS IN FUR Roman Polanski has grabbed David Ives's New York stage hit about a
theater director and the mysterious woman who arrives for an audition and takes
charge in sexy, surprising ways. Mr. Polanski and Mr. Ives collaborated on the
screenplay. Emmanuelle Seigner (Mr. Polanski's wife) takes on the role that made
Nina Arianda a Broadway star. Mathieu Almaric plays the director, who doesn't
know what hit him.

JUNE 25

THE PLEASURES OF BEING OUT OF STEP: NOTES ON THE LIFE OF NAT HENTOFF He became a
columnist for DownBeat magazine in 1952. He wrote for The Village Voice for half
a century. Mr. Hentoff, a Pulitzer Prize winner who will turn 89 next month, is
still an important voice of jazz, alternative journalism and various libertarian
causes. This documentary, directed by David L. Lewis, includes music by the
likes of Duke Ellington, Charles Mingus, Miles Davis and Bob Dylan.

YVES SAINT LAURENT And now he's fiction. Jalil Lespert directs this biography of
Saint Laurent (Pierre Niney), the young, Algerian-born assistant who knocked the
Parisian fashion world's chaussettes off when he took over the house of Dior at
age 21. Guillaume Gallienne plays Pierre BergÃ©, the designer's business partner
and true love. Saint Laurent died in 2008.

JUNE 27

LA BARE Joe Manganiello has often displayed his body as the werewolfish Alcide
on HBO's ''True Blood.'' He played a stripper named Big Dick Richie in ''Magic
Mike.'' So naturally, when Mr. Manganiello wants to make his feature-film
directorial debut, he chooses a male strip club in Dallas as his subject.

CODE BLACK A big-city emergency room that often feels like a war zone changes
completely after the hospital moves to a fancy new building with
state-of-the-art technology. The doctors kind of liked it the old way. A
documentary directed by Ryan McGarry.

I AM HAPPINESS ON EARTH From Mexico, a drama about a film director who gets real
life and his films confused. One or both of these involves a great deal of
nudity and sex with men. Hugo CatalÃ¡n stars. Directed by JuliÃ¡n HernÃ¡ndez.

THE INTERNET'S OWN BOY: THE STORY OF AARON SWARTZ He was 14 when he helped
develop the Web feed format RSS. Then he founded a company that merged with
Reddit. And at 26, embroiled in a legal battle because of his belief that access
to information should be free, he committed suicide. A documentary written and
directed by Brian Knappenberger.

JACKPOT A crime comedy from Norway. A mild-mannered Christmas-tree-factory
manager (Kyrre Hellum) wakes up one morning in a strip club, gun in hand,
surrounded by dead bodies. He will need to explain this to the police. Magnus
Martens directed.

NOTHING BAD CAN HAPPEN This German drama, which earned lots of positive
attention at Cannes, has been called torture porn by its detractors. Julius
Feldmeier stars as a young drifter starting a new life in Hamburg with a group
called the Jesus Freaks. One day he helps out a family whose car is stalled,
moves in with them and finds himself the daily victim of startling cruelty (for
example, rapes and mutilations), which he decides to suffer in as Christlike a
manner as possible. With Sascha Alexander Gersak, Annika Kuhl and Swantje
Kohlhof. Written and directed by Katrin Gebbe, and said to have been inspired by
true events.

SIDDHARTH From India, Canada and the writer and director Richie Mehta, a drama
about a father's cross-country journey searching for his son. A poor man who
repairs zippers on the streets of New Delhi sends his 12-year-old to work in a
distant factory, but the boy disappears and is feared kidnapped by child
traffickers. With Rajesh Tailang, Tannishtha Chatterjee and Irfan Khan.

SNOWPIERCER You think the class system is getting ugly in regular life? Just
imagine it in a postapocalyptic world in which all the survivors on earth are on
a big train together, going around and around the globe. Tilda Swinton is in
first class and makes it arrogantly clear that the people in steerage should
shut up and be invisible. The cast also includes Chris Evans, Jamie Bell, John
Hurt, Ed Harris and Alison Pill. Directed by Bong Joon Ho. The year is 2031, and
it all happened because of a failed global-warming experiment, which appears to
have left the planet snowbound.

THEY CAME TOGETHER So this lovely young woman owns a charming little bookstore
that will probably go out of business because of a big company run by a handsome
guy. No -- sorry -- this time it's a charming little candy store and a big candy
corporation. Cobie Smulders and Paul Rudd star in this romantic comedy as the
would-be couple who despise each other because of differing business
philosophies. With Amy Poehler, Michael Shannon and Christopher Meloni. David
Wain directed.

TRANSFORMERS: AGE OF EXTINCTION The director (Michael Bay), the Autobots and the
Decepticons are back, but there are some new humans in the latest battle. Mark
Wahlberg stars as an auto mechanic who makes a big discovery, with a supporting
cast that includes Stanley Tucci, Kelsey Grammer, Sophia Myles, Bingbing Li and
Nicola Peltz.

WHITEY: UNITED STATES OF AMERICA V. JAMES J. BULGER That was fast. After 16
years in hiding, the Boston crime boss known as Whitey Bulger was found and
arrested in 2011, convicted of 31 charges (racketeering, extortion, connections
with numerous murders) in August and sentenced in November. And now we have a
documentary, directed by Joe Berlinger, whose past work includes ''Paradise
Lost: The Child Murders at Robin Hood Hills.''

July

JULY 2

DELIVER US FROM EVIL First, bed bugs; now, an epidemic of demonic possessions.
Can New York City never catch a break? Eric Bana stars as a Bronx police officer
who investigates the paranormal, and Ã[0/00]dgar Ramirez is a priest who knows
something about exorcisms. With Olivia Munn and Joel McHale. Directed by Scott
Derrickson and based on the nonfiction (uh-oh) book ''Beware the Night.''

EARTH TO ECHO Three inseparable young friends are about to be separated in this
sci-fi adventure directed by Dave Green (who also directed six episodes of
''Zombie Roadkill''). Maybe, the boys (Teo Halm, Reese Hartwig and Astro)
decide, there's more to the destruction of their whole neighborhood than a
highway construction project. Maybe something extraterrestrial is lurking.

TAMMY Susan Sarandon as Melissa McCarthy's grandmother? Pretty hard to buy, even
with Ms. Sarandon in that ''Mama's Family'' wig. (There's a 24-year age
difference, in case you're wondering.) A road-trip comedy, directed by Ben
Falcone (Ms. McCarthy's husband), with not even a remote connection to the
Debbie Reynolds and Sandra Dee ''Tammy'' movies of yesteryear.

JULY 4

BEGIN AGAIN John Carney, who wrote and directed ''Once,'' brings us the story of
two lost-souls who find each other in New York. Mark Ruffalo is a rumpled,
self-destructive pop music producer who has lost his job. Keira Knightley is a
radiant singer-songwriter whose aspiring-rock-star boyfriend (Adam Levine) has
gotten a solo contract and left her behind. With Catherine Keener, Hailee
Steinfeld, Cee Lo Green and Yasiin Bey (a.k.a. Mos Def).

LIFE ITSELF The Roger Ebert story, based on his memoir. Lots of love for Ebert,
the beloved (and Pulitzer Prize-winning) Chicago Sun-Times film critic, who died
last year. A documentary directed by Steve James, best known for ''Hoop
Dreams,'' which Ebert once named the best film of the 1990s.

JULY 9

CLOSED CURTAIN From the Iranian filmmaker Jafar Panahi, the story of a reclusive
screenwriter (Mr. Panahi) hiding from the world with only his little dog. Then a
young woman fleeing the authorities bursts in and refuses to leave. Also
starring Kambozia Partovi (who is the film's co-director) and Maryam Moqadam.

JULY 11

AFFLUENZA What if ''The Great Gatsby'' had been set in 2008, right before the
economy came tumbling down? The setting is the same as in F. Scott Fitzgerald's
Jazz Age novel: upscale Long Island. A nice middle-class boy (Ben Rosenfield)
from upstate New York comes to stay with his rich cousin (Nicola Peltz) and gets
all caught up. Marijuana and casual sex abound. Kevin Asch directed.

AND SO IT GOES From Rob Reiner, a comedy for the baby boomers. Michael Douglas
stars as an obnoxious real estate guy, and Diane Keaton is the neighbor he turns
to (selfishly) when he suddenly has to take care of a granddaughter he never
knew he had. Sterling Jerins plays the 9-year-old girl.

AS IT IS IN HEAVEN Competing messiahs in a religious sect in Kentucky. The
group's dying leader (John Lina) shocks his followers by naming a newcomer
(Chris Nelson) to succeed him, rather than his own son (Luke Beavers).
Predictions of the end of the world ensue, so everyone feels pressured to take
one side or the other. Directed by Joshua Overbay.

BOYHOOD Richard Linklater does love to play with time. He follows up ''Before
Midnight'' with this Texas coming-of-age tale filmed in real time. Yes, the star
(Ellar Coltrane) was 7 when filming began and 19 when it finished. The cast and
crew got together once a year, beginning in 2002, to shoot it. With Ethan Hawke
and Patricia Arquette as his divorced parents.

COLDWATER A very strange reform school in the wilderness. A teenage boy (P. J.
BoudousquÃ©) is abducted in the middle of the night and taken there. There is no
connection with the outside world, and a crazy man (James C. Burns) runs the
place. A thriller, directed by Vincent Grashaw.

DAWN OF THE PLANET OF THE APES Fifteen years have passed since ''Rise of the
Planet of the Apes,'' and Andy Serkis is back as Caesar, the intelligent ape who
led his species to power. Gary Oldman plays the leader of the resistance in San
Francisco. Jason Clarke and Keri Russell also play humans. Directed by Matt
Reeves.

A FIVE STAR LIFE From Italy, a drama that won its star, Margherita Buy, the best
actress David di Donatello Award (Italy's Oscar equivalent). Lucky Irene (Ms.
Buy), a single woman in her 40s, has the greatest job in the world: just staying
in luxurious hotels incognito and assessing them. And she convinces herself that
she has a personal life by spending time with her sister, her two little nieces
and an ex-lover with whom she remains friends. Then her support system fails.
With Fabrizia Sacchi and Stefano Accorsi. Directed by Maria Sole Tognazzi.

THE FLUFFY MOVIE A comedy concert starring Gabriel Iglesias, whose nickname is
Fluffy (one of his early comedy shows was ''I'm Not Fat I'm Fluffy''). Mr.
Iglesias likes to wear Hawaiian shirts and make jokes about being
Mexican-American, being obese and talking dirty to Krispy Kreme doughnuts.

THE KILL TEAM Dan Krauss's documentary tells the story of a 21-year-old American
soldier in Afghanistan trying to report war crimes to the powers that be.
Trying.

LAND HO! Two men in their 60s try to recapture their youth on a trip to Iceland.
A road comedy, with European scenery, written and directed by Martha Stephens
and Aaron Katz. Paul Eenhoorn and Earl Lynn Nelson star.

A LONG WAY DOWN What is simultaneously the worst and best thing that can happen
to a person who finally gets up the nerve to go to a building roof and commit
suicide? To find three other people on the roof, planning the same thing. Pierce
Brosnan, Toni Collette, Aaron Paul and Imogen Poots play those four strangers,
who make a pact to try to find reasons to live. Based on the Nick Hornby novel
and directed by Pascal Chaumeil.

MAY IN THE SUMMER May Brennan is a sophisticated New York author who runs into
all kinds of cultural conflict when she goes home to Amman, Jordan, for her
wedding. Her mother (Hiam Abbass), a divorced born-again Christian, disapproves
of her stable, sensible Muslim fiancÃ© (Alexander Siddig). Her estranged father
is played by Hollywood's stable-sensible-fiancÃ© type of yore, Bill Pullman. The
Nebraska-born Cherien Dabis wrote, directed and makes her screen-acting debut in
the title role.

ROAD TO PALOMA Think of it as a Native American ''Easy Rider'' or just a
road-movie thriller. Jason Momoa (who was the warlord Drogo on ''Game of
Thrones'') stars as a young American Indian headed for the Tetons on his
motorcycle. He's on the run from the F.B.I. because he has just avenged his
mother's rape and murder. With Lisa Bonet (who is married to the filmmaker),
looking fabulous. Mr. Momoa also directed and was one of the screenplay's three
writers.

THE SARNOS: A LIFE IN DIRTY MOVIES Joseph W. Sarno made sexploitation films (the
headline of his obituary in The New York Times in 2010 said so), not
pornography. His more than 100 directing credits included ''Sin in the Suburbs''
(1964) and ''Little Oral Annie Takes Manhattan'' (1985). This documentary, from
Sweden but in English, follows Mr. Sarno and his wife and collaborator, Peggy
Steffans Sarno, near the end of his life trying their darnedest to make one last
movie. Directed by Wiktor Ericsson.

JULY 18

AFTERMATH After the big nuclear war, nine strangers are hiding together in a
farmhouse cellar. And the zombies are coming. A horror thriller directed by
Peter Engert. Edward Furlong and Monica Keena star.

I ORIGINS A science fiction drama about retinas and irises and pupils. Michael
Pitt stars as a molecular biologist studying the evolution of the human eye who,
with his lab partner (Brit Marling). makes an amazing discovery. Science meets
spirituality (maybe the soul really does have windows), and the scientist
searches for a mysterious woman with beautiful eyes. Written and directed by
Mike Cahill.

JUPITER ASCENDING One minute you're cleaning toilets; the next, you're
controlling the universe -- which was always your destiny, which you always kind
of suspected. Mila Kunis plays Jupiter, the ladies'-room worker whose life
changes overnight, thanks to Channing Tatum, who has just arrived from outer
space. Andy and Lana Wachowski wrote and directed.

MOOD INDIGO Romain Duris and Audrey Tautou -- yes, they have two films together
coming to America this summer -- star in a magical-realism-touched romance based
on a cult postwar novel (''L'Ã[0/00]cume des Jours'') by Boris Vian. He's a
wealthy bachelor. She's the woman he falls in love with and marries, and her
fairy-tale disease is a water lily growing in her lungs. The only cure: More
flowers, a lot more flowers. Michel Gondry directed.

PLANES: FIRE & RESCUE An animated 3-D sequel to ''Disney's Planes.'' Dusty
Crophopper (the voice of Dane Cook), who made a career change from crop-duster
to racer in the first movie, may never compete again because his wing is
damaged. But he has yet another chance to reinvent himself: There's a wildfire
at a national park, clearly a job for elite aerial firefighters, like Windlifter
the helicopter and Cabbie the former military transport. Directed by Roberts
Gannaway.

THE PURGE: ANARCHY In the future, once a year all crimes -- including murder --
will be legal for 12 hours, and nobody will help, because all hospitals and
emergency services are shut down for the duration. This thriller is a sequel to
''Anarchy'' (2013). Same director: James DeMonaco. Same premise, this time with
a young couple (Zach Gilford and Kiele Sanchez) whose car breaks down just as
the so-called purge begins.

RICH HILL Winner of the documentary grand jury prize at Sundance this year. The
title is the name of a town in Missouri where Andrew Droz Palermo and Tracy Droz
Tragos, the co-directors, follow three poor Midwestern boys, with an eye toward
family bonds and human dignity.

WISH I WAS HERE Zach Braff follows up his feature directing debut, ''Garden
State,'' about an actor in his 20s feeling lost and going off his meds, as the
director and star of this comic drama about an actor in his 30s feeling lost and
trying to home-school his children. (The film's title suggests that English
classes will skip the subjunctive.) With Kate Hudson, Jim Parsons, Mandy
Patinkin and Josh Gad.

JULY 23

A MASTER BUILDER A little Ibsen for the summer, directed by Jonathan Demme.
Wallace Shawn stars as Halvard Solness, a successful, obsessive and domineering
Norwegian architect in his 60s, who is (in this version, Mr. Shawn's adaptation)
on his deathbed. Solness finds himself miraculously revived by the visit of a
young female admirer. With AndrÃ© Gregory (who produced it for the stage), Julie
Hagerty and Lisa Joyce.

JULY 25

CANNIBAL Carlos is the finest tailor in Granada, Spain, catering to the rich and
powerful. And in his off-hours, he murders women and eats them. In this thriller
from Spain, Carlos (Antonio de la Torre) exhibits an unashamed callousness that
would make Hannibal Lecter proud but finds gentler emotions awakened when a
young woman from Romania (Olimpia Melinte), a paragon of innocence, comes
looking for her missing twin sister. Directed by Manuel MartÃ­n Cuenca.

HAPPY CHRISTMAS A comedy drama from the mumblecore pioneer Joe Swanberg. A
Chicago filmmaker (Mr. Swanberg), his novelist wife (Melanie Lynskey) and their
2-year-old boy find their lives disrupted when the filmmaker's little sister
(Anna Kendrick) moves in. And her new best friend (Lena Dunham) turns out to be
the neighborhood pot dealer.

HERCULES The Radical Comics version of the Greek demigod who became a
sword-for-hire after that whole 12 labors thing was over is hired by the King of
Thrace to eliminate a warlord. Dwayne Johnson, the artist formerly known as the
Rock, plays the title role. The cast also includes Ian McShane, Rufus Sewell and
Joseph Fiennes. Brett Ratner directed.

MAGIC IN THE MOONLIGHT Woody Allen returns to France, this time the glamorous
Riviera in the glamorous 1920s. (The period that the 21st-century hero of Mr.
Allen's ''Midnight in Paris'' romanticized.) Emma Stone is the requisite
beautiful young woman. Colin Firth plays an Englishman assigned to investigate a
swindle. The eclectic cast also includes Marcia Gay Harden, Eileen Atkins and
Hamish Linklater.

A MOST WANTED MAN Philip Seymour Hoffman is a calm, cool German spy, the hero of
a John le CarrÃ© novel set in Hamburg. The focus of this spy thriller is a
mysterious half-Chechen, half-Russian Islamic immigrant (Grigoriy Dobrygin) who
becomes a pawn in the war on terror. With Robin Wright, Rachel McAdams and
Willem Dafoe. Directed by Anton Corbijn.

SEX TAPE After 10 years of marriage, lovemaking has become rather ordinary for
one couple (Cameron Diaz and Jason Segel), so they try to work up a little
excitement by making a three-hour movie of their best moves in bed. Then they
lose the tape. A comedy, directed by Jake Kasdan, with a supporting cast that
includes Rob Lowe, Jack Black and Rob Corddry.

STEP UP: ALL IN Those dangerous dancing kids from Baltimore, from ''Step Up''
and ''Step Up 2: The Streets,'' go to Las Vegas. Trish Sie directed.

VERY GOOD GIRLS How to lose your virginity in hip modern-day Brooklyn. Two
teenage best friends (Dakota Fanning and Elizabeth Olsen) are determined to do
just that, before they leave for college. But things become weird when they fall
for the same guy, a street artist (Boyd Holbrook, who made his film debut in
''Milk''). With Demi Moore, Peter Sarsgaard, Kiernan Shipka (Sally Draper on
''Mad Men'') and Richard Dreyfuss. From Naomi Foner, who wrote ''Losing Isaiah''
and ''Running on Empty,'' making her directorial debut.

August

AUG. 1

CALVARY A good-guy Irish priest (Brendan Gleeson) receives a death threat during
confession -- from a man who says he was abused by priests earlier in his life.
An extremely dark comedy written and directed by John Michael McDonagh. With
Kelly Reilly as the priest's daughter (he was married before attending seminary
in middle age).

CABIN FEVER: PATIENT ZERO An idyllic Caribbean cruise turns into a horror story
for three bachelor pals in this prequel to Eli Roth's ''Cabin Fever.'' If only
the guys hadn't taken a swim in contaminated water. If only they hadn't explored
the research lab where a flesh-eating virus was lying in wait. With Sean Astin,
Currie Graham and Ryan Donowho. Directed by Kaare Andrews.

CHILD OF GOD James Franco directs and appears in this drama based on a Cormac
McCarthy novel set in 1960s Tennessee. Scott Haze stars as an isolated,
disaffected man who descends to the level of a cave dweller.

ENTER THE DANGEROUS MIND Jake Hoffman (son of Dustin Hoffman) stars in this
thriller as a mentally ill dubstep musician who becomes obsessed with a pretty
social worker (Nikki Reed). Scott Bakula is her mentor, who tries to help
because the situation is threatening to blow up. Thomas Dekker is the young
man's supposed friend. Directed by Youssef Delara and Victor Teran.

GET ON UP In which Papa gets a brand-new bag. The story of James Brown
(1933-2006), Godfather of Soul, from Southern poverty to funk stardom, with
Chadwick Boseman (who played Jackie Robinson in ''42'' last year) in the title
role. Tate Taylor (''The Help'') directed. The cast also includes Viola Davis,
Octavia Spencer and Dan Aykroyd.

GUARDIANS OF THE GALAXY From the folks at Marvel Studios, another group of
superheroes facing evil cosmic forces. One of them is a raccoon, one is kind of
a tree, and this is not a cartoon. Directed by James Gunn, with a cast that
includes Chris Pratt, Zoe Saldana, John C. Reilly and the raccoonish voice of
Bradley Cooper.

WHAT IF Daniel Radcliffe, only three years past the ''Harry Potter'' movies,
stars as a medical-school dropout who has given up on love after a young
lifetime of bad relationships. He's surrounded by people who have found ''the
one,'' including his new pal (Zoe Kazan), who has a longtime live-in boyfriend
(Rafe Spall). But gosh, she's nice. A romantic comedy and drama hybrid, directed
by Michael Dowse. With Adam Driver, Megan Park and Mackenzie Davis.

AUG. 6

WEB JUNKIE An absolutely literal title. China is said to be the first nation to
have classified Internet addiction as an actual clinical disorder and to have
set up rehab clinics. This documentary, from two Israeli directors (Hilla
Medalia and Shosh Shlam), goes inside them.

AUG. 8

THE GREEN PRINCE A documentary about Israeli intelligence. The story of Mosab
Hassan Yousef, the Palestinian son of a Hamas founder and leader, who switched
sides and spied against the organization he had been groomed to lead one day.
Nadav Schirman directed.

THE HUNDRED-FOOT JOURNEY Restaurant wars in the South of France, with Helen
Mirren as the grande dame who has no intention of losing her customers or her
Michelin star. The threat: An immigrant family who open an Indian restaurant
right under her nose. Unexpected result: Fusion cuisine. Also starring Om Puri
and Manish Dayal. Directed by Lasse Hallstrom.

INTO THE STORM In ''Twister,'' we saw cows tossed through the air during a
tornado. In this thriller, set in an unlucky town hit by multiple twisters in
one day, we see commercial jetliners, a whole tumbling herd of them. Richard
Armitage, Sarah Wayne Callies and Jeremy Sumpter star. Steven Quale directed.

JAMES CAMERON'S DEEPSEA CHALLENGE 3-D Mr. Cameron, who hasn't been the same
since ''Titanic'' (1997), takes a submarine expedition to the deepest part of
the ocean in this documentary.

LUCY Scarlett Johansson acquires superpowers in a particularly ugly way in this
action thriller. Her character is forced to be a drug mule, then is beaten so
violently that the drugs leak into her system. Her superness is mental as well
as physical, and she turns for guidance to a professor (Morgan Freeman) doing
research on the human brain. Meanwhile, she can stop time and control the
Jumbotron in Times Square. From Luc Besson, whose films have included ''La Femme
Nikita'' and ''The Fifth Element.''

SALVO A Mafia movie from Italy (and France) that could have a love theme. Saleh
Bakri plays Salvo, a hit man for a Sicilian organization, whose cold heart is
touched when a young blind woman (Sara Serraiocco) has to stand by while he
assassinates her brother. Salvo decides to spare her, and things go from there.
A romance-crime-drama blend written and directed by Fabio Grassadonia and
Antonio Piazza.

TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES Turtles just want to have fun. At least that's true
of the four giant ones who talk, walk upright, love pizza, fight crime (when
necessary) with their martial arts skills and live in New York's sewers. They're
back, and Megan Fox (as a determined reporter) has got them. Will Arnett is her
smart-aleck camera operator. William Fichtner plays the villain. The turtles are
the heroes, just as they were on television and in the original 1990 film.
Jonathan Liebesman directed.

AUG. 13

LET'S BE COPS Two pals in their 30s whose lives are going nowhere -- Damon
Wayans Jr. and Jake Johnson (from the sitcom ''New Girl'') -- decide to dress up
as police officers for a costume party. They love the way people react to them
in uniform, so they keep up the buddy-cops act in real life. The pose is lots of
fun when they're called to quell a disturbance involving intoxicated sorority
sisters, but not so much when they run into real mobsters. With Andy Garcia and
Nina Dobrev. Directed by Luke Greenfield.

AUG. 15

AS ABOVE, SO BELOW Didn't we always know there was something suspicious about
the Catacombs of Paris? What kind of tourist attraction is just a big
underground space filled with human skeletons? In John Erick Dowdle's thriller,
some modern-day explorers appear to learn its real secret. Personal demons,
among other things, are roused.

DINOSAUR 13 A documentary about the American paleontologists who in 1990 made a
major discovery -- the largest, most complete Tyrannosaurus rex skeleton ever --
and then ran into nothing but trouble over it. Directed by Todd Douglas Miller.

THE EXPENDABLES 3 Mel Gibson is the villain (a ruthless arms dealer) in this
sequel about old men with machine guns. So, Sylvester Stallone again leads a
band of aging action stars, this time including Harrison Ford, Arnold
Schwarzenegger, Wesley Snipes, Dolph Lundgren and Jet Li. Their strategy: Hire
young, tech-savvy Expendables. Patrick Hughes directed.

THE GIVER Jonas leads a life of calm contentment, like everyone else in the
peaceful black-and-white world around him. But in this sci-fi drama, based on
Lois Lowry's acclaimed young adult novel, Jonas (Brenton Thwaites) learns the
truth about humanity (war, death, pain, loneliness) at the age of 12 when he is
named the community's Receiver of Mem. Jeff Bridges plays the Giver of Memory,
who understands when Jacob is intrigued by these revelations and wants to
escape. With Meryl Streep, Alexander Skarsgard, Katie Holmes and Taylor Swift
(as the Giver's daughter). Directed by Phillip Noyce, whose other political
statements have included ''Clear and Present Danger'' and ''The Quiet
American.''

LIFE AFTER BETH It's a tragedy for Zach (Dane De Haan) when his girlfriend, Beth
(Aubrey Plaza), dies suddenly. But a miracle happens, she comes back to life,
and he vows to make her incredibly happy. But she's, uh, changed. And some
characters in this film have the word ''zombie'' in their names. With Anna
Kendrick, John C. Reilly and Molly Shannon. Written and directed by Jeff Baena.

THE ONE I LOVE When your marriage is in trouble, what do you do? If you are
Sophie and Ethan, you go away for a romantic weekend retreat and hope that
spatial and temporal anomalies do not present themselves. With Elisabeth Moss
(all blond), Mark Duplass and Ted Danson. Charlie McDowell directed.

THE TRIP TO ITALY A Briton and a Welshman walk into a restaurant. Make that six
restaurants, all in Italy, on a culinary tour from Liguria to Capri. Steve
Coogan and Rob Brydon star in this follow-up to their 2010 film, ''The Trip,''
also directed by Michael Winterbottom. Mr. Winterbottom focuses on the men's
conversations, so they could be going for ''My Dinner With AndrÃ©,'' with
scenery and risotto.

AUG. 18

MOEBIUS A drama about castration, literally, from South Korea. Dad is having an
affair, Mom decides to commit a Lorena Bobbitt with a kitchen knife, and when
her efforts are thwarted, she inexplicably takes the knife to her teenage son
instead. Father makes the ultimate (genital) sacrifice in solidarity with his
son, and both try to adjust. With Cho Jae-hyun, Lee Eun-woo and Seo Young-ju.
Directed by Kim Ki-duk.

AUG. 20

THE EXPEDITION TO THE END OF THE WORLD In this documentary from Scandinavia, an
unusual band of adventurers board a three-mast schooner and head for
northeastern Greenland to watch mountains of ice melt. The group includes
artists, a geologist, a photographer and a marine biologist (the only woman).
Daniel Dencik directed.

AUG. 22

FRANK Michael Fassbender finds time between ''Prometheus'' and ''X-Men'' movies
to play the title role in this British comic drama. A young would-be musician
(Domhnall Gleeson) from the suburbs gets a job with a band but runs into lots of
tension and possibly insanity. For one thing, the frontman (Mr. Fassbender) --
inspired by the British comic and pop star who became known as Frank Sidebottom
-- likes to wear a huge papier-mÃ¢chÃ© head. Maggie Gyllenhaal is the theremin
player. Lenny Abrahamson directed.

FRANK MILLER'S SIN CITY: A DAME TO KILL FOR Back to Mr. Miller's world of trench
coats and push-up bras. He and his co-director, Robert Rodriguez, revisit the
hard-boiled Basin City in a sequel to the 2005 film based on Mr. Miller's comic
book universe. The cast includes some return visitors, among them Mickey Rourke,
Bruce Willis, Jessica Alba and Powers Boothe. With Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Josh
Brolin, Dennis Haysbert and Eva Green.

IF I STAY A happy, loved, musical teenage girl (ChloÃ« Grace Moretz) is in a car
accident. Her whole family is killed, and she's in a coma. Should she go into
the light or hang around on earth? Directed by R. J. Cutler, whose past films
have been about power figures like Dick Cheney and Anna Wintour.

THE LIBERATOR From Venezuela, a drama about SimÃ³n BolÃ­var (1783-1830), the
military hero who led five South American countries to independence from Spain.
Alberto Arvelo directed. BolÃ­var is played by Ã[0/00]dgar RamÃ­rez, who played
Cyrano in Mr. Arvelo's film ''Cyrano FernÃ¡ndez.''

LOVE IS STRANGE John Lithgow and Alfred Molina play a couple who have been
together for 39 years and decide to make it legal, once New York allows same-sex
marriage. But as a result, Mr. Molina's character loses his job (choir director
at a Roman Catholic school) and the couple lose their apartment. Forced to live
apart, at least for a while, one man moves in with two of New York's finest
(Cheyenne Jackson and Manny Perez), and the other goes to stay with a nephew and
his family (Darren E. Burrows, Marisa Tomei and Charlie Tahan). A drama,
directed by Ira Sachs.

WHEN THE GAME STANDS TALL A sports drama starring Jim Caviezel as Bob Ladouceur,
the real-life California high school football coach who racked up a 151-game
winning streak. That's 12 consecutive undefeated seasons. Directed by Thomas
Carter.

AUG. 27

THROUGH A LENS DARKLY: BLACK PHOTOGRAPHERS AND THE EMERGENCE OF A PEOPLE The
camera as a tool for social change, since the invention of photography. A
documentary directed by Thomas Allen Harris.

UNDERDOGS From Argentina, an animated tale about a boy (the voice of Rupert
Grint, a.k.a. Ron Weasley of ''Harry Potter'') with a fight on his hands.
Happily, the foosball players from his favorite arcade come to life and help
him. Directed by Juan JosÃ© Campanella.

AUG. 29

THE CONGRESS For movie stars, this is what it may come to. A fictional and
animated version of Robin Wright (played by Ms. Wright) needs money, so she
gives her studio permission to preserve and use her digital likeness however the
executives see fit. Two decades later, her digital image becomes a star. How to
deal with the comeback? From the Israeli director Ari Folman, who won an Oscar
for ''Waltz With Bashir.'' With Jon Hamm (as the studio's head of animation),
Harvey Keitel and Paul Giamatti.

FIFI HOWLS FROM HAPPINESS A documentary about the reclusive Modernist Iranian
painter Bahman Mohassess, who lived in self-imposed exile in Rome until his
death in 2010. Written and directed by Mitra Farahani.

JESSABELLE There's a reason so many urban adults don't like going home to their
faraway small towns, and the title character (Sarah Snook) of this horror movie
learns it fast. When Jessabelle returns to her childhood home in Louisiana to
recover after a horrible auto accident, she finds a tortured evil spirit there
who has just been waiting to get its hands on her. Maybe the moral here is: You
can't leave home again. Kevin Greutert directed. Mark Webber, David Andrews and
Joelle Carter also star.

LIFE OF CRIME A dark caper based on an Elmore Leonard novel (''The Switch'').
Tim Robbins plays a real estate vulture. Jennifer Aniston is his wife, who gets
kidnapped. He decides not to pay the ransom. Daniel Schechter wrote and
directed. The cast also includes Isla Fisher and Will Forte.

THE LOFT Cute Eric Stonestreet from ''Modern Family,'' hunky James Marsden (from
''The Notebook'' and ''Hairspray'') and intense Karl Urban (from ''Almost
Human'') in a psychological thriller. Five men decide to share a city apartment
for the purpose of clandestine affairs and wild fantasies but, oops, they soon
discover a dead body there. A remake of the director Erik Van Looy's own 2008
Belgian film of the same name.

THE NOTEBOOK No Gena Rowlands and James Garner dying in each other's arms. No
Ryan Gosling and Rachel McAdams having makeup sex in the rain. This Hungarian
drama stars real-life twin brothers, Andras Gyemant and Laszlo Gyemant, as twins
trying to survive World War II by taking notes and learning from the evil they
see around them. Janos Szasz directed.

ONE CHANCE They introduced him as ''a mobile phone salesman from South Wales''
when he first appeared on ''Britain's Got Talent.'' Then Paul Potts, an amateur
British tenor in his mid-30s, sang ''Nessun dorma,'' and the world stood still.
(More impressive, Simon Cowell acknowledged him.) James Corden, whom Broadway
audiences know from ''The History Boys'' and ''One Man, Two Guvnors,'' plays
Potts, who in 2007 won that talent show's first season and enjoyed a major boost
in self-esteem and income. With Julie Walter, Colm Meaney and Alexandra Roach.
Directed by David Frankel. All cq

STARRED UP A prison drama starring Jack O'Connell as a violent 19-year-old who
is moved to an adult institution, where his estranged father (Ben Mendelsohn) is
also an inmate. Volatility is everywhere (gangs, institutional corruption, Dad
himself), but a volunteer psychotherapist (Rupert Friend) who runs an anger
management group behind bars may be able to help. Directed by David Mackenzie.

Compiled with the assistance of Suzanne O'Connor.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/05/04/movies/summer-movie-release-schedule.html

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From top, Angelina Jolie taps her inner goth as the title
character in ''Maleficent''
Michael Fassbender returns as the younger Magneto in Bryan Singer's ''X-Men:
Days of Future Past''
and Jesse Eisenberg (with Mia Wasikowska) shows two sides to his persona in
Richard Ayoade's ''The Double.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WALT DISNEY PICTURES
ALAN MARKFIELD/20TH CENTURY FOX, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
DEAN RODGERS/MAGNOLIA PICTURES) (AR35)
From top, Tom Cruise keeps reliving a tricky day in Doug Liman's science fiction
drama ''Edge of Tomorrow''
the peckish title character takes a city stroll in ''Godzilla''
Andre Benjamin portrays Jimi Hendrix in John Ridley's ''Jimi: All Is by My
Side.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WARNER BROS. PICTURES
PATRICK REDMOND/XLRATOR MEDIA) (AR36)
From top, Jonah Hill, left, and Channing Tatum on the college beat in ''22 Jump
Street''
from left, John Lloyd Young, Erich Bergen, Vincent Piazza and Michael Lomenda as
the Four Seasons in Clint Eastwood's ''Jersey Boys''
Jenny Slate and Jake Lacy in ''Obvious Child''
Nicola Peltz and Mark Wahlberg exert in ''Transformers: Age of Extinction.''
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY GLEN WILSON/COLUMBIA PICTURES
KEITH BERNSTEIN/WARNER BROS. PICTURES
A24
PARAMOUNT PICTURES (AR37)
From top, from left, Ingrid Berdal, Dwayne Johnson, Reece Ritchie and Rufus
Sewell in ''Hercules''
Audrey Tautou and Romain Duris in Michel Gondry's ''Mood Indigo.'' Below, Willem
Dafoe, left, and Philip Seymour Hoffman in ''A Most Wanted Man''
bottom, Channing Tatum in ''Jupiter Ascending.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PARAMOUNT
PICTURES
DRAFHOUSE FILMS
KERRY BROWN/ROADSIDE ATTRACTIONS
WARNER BROS. PICTURES) (AR38)
Clockwise from top, Scarlett Johansson in Luc Besson's ''Lucy''
Daniel Radcliffe and Zoe Kazan in ''What If''
Alfred Molina, left, and John Lithgow as a married pair in ''Love Is Strange''
Chadwick Boseman, center, as James Brown in ''Get On Up.'' Below from left, the
title characters of ''Guardians of the Galaxy'': Gamora (Zoe Saldana), Peter
Quill a.k.a. Star-Lord (Chris Pratt), Rocket Raccoon (voiced by Bradley Cooper),
Drax the Destroyer (Dave Bautista) and Groot (voiced by Vin Diesel).
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY UNIVERSAL PICTURES
CAITLIN CRONENBERG/CBS FILMS
MARVEL STUDIOS AND WALT DISNEY PICTURES
JEONG PARK/SONY PICTURES CLASSICS
D STEVENS/UNIVERSAL PICTURES) (AR39)
 The return of ''Teenage  Mutant Ninja Turtles,''  directed by Jonathan
Liebesman, proves that  you just can't keep a  goofy pop-culture  franchise
down. And, yes,  the turtles still love pizza,  fighting crime and old  Bruce
Lee movies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PARAMOUNT PICTURES) (AR40)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                              May 6, 2014 Tuesday

Today in Small Business: Credit Cards for Small Businesses

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 607 words



HIGHLIGHT: Understanding why you are always so busy. Becoming a better
negotiator. And introducing the &#8220;Zuckerberg tax.&#8221;


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.

Finance

Many small businesses are left in the lurch when local banks collapse.

Here are one site's picks for best credit cards for small businesses.

Taxes

Introducing the "Zuckerberg tax:" Is it a tax even conservatives could support?

Employees

Here are six things to know about employee injuries.

And here's a chief executive who takes prospective employees out to lunch and
makes them drive his car in a strange city: "Then I'll be giving them directions
and asking them questions while we're driving to see if they can multitask. Some
people can handle it with aplomb, and others can't."

The Economy

Global manufacturing growth slows to a six-month low.

Midmarket hiring is looking bright.

The pace of hiring is increasing in the construction industry.

A report from the Conference Board confirms a strong jobs trajectory.

After hunkering down in the winter, nonmanufacturers are revving up again.

A handful of Wall Street economists are forecasting gross domestic product
growth of 4 percent or better in the second quarter.

Retail

More kiosks and fewer cashiers are coming to Panera (one reason: to reduce order
mistakes).

A robbery suspect was identified and arrested the same day a photo from a store
security tape was posted on Facebook.

A man writes to a woman standing in line at a checkout counter to tell her that
her bullying tactics "are exactly what makes me embarrassed to be a consumer."

Amazon now lets you add stuff to your shopping cart by using a special Twitter
hashtag.

Six months later, Target - still feeling the pain from its holiday data breach -
replaces its chief executive.

Why mobile shoppers might not be so good for your business.

Office Depot is closing 400 stores.

Management

Here's why you are so busy all of the time.

This is a cheat sheet for becoming a better negotiator.

Around the Country

Google introduces a delivery service for Los Angeles and New York.

Michigan's attempts to build a start-up ecosystem begin to bear fruit.

Local bars and restaurants in Savannah, Ga., are experiencing a lime shortage.

Washington wants to build a business portal. "Ideally it will work like
TurboTax," said the interim director of the Department of Consumer and
Regulatory Affairs. "You tell the portal what you want to do, and it will walk
you through the steps to do it."

A Charlotte, N.C., veteran says a business asked him to leave because of his
service dog.

In Baltimore, it's not just in elected positions or appointed offices where
women have risen to the top.

A gun shop owner in Maryland wonders why the National Rifle Association wants to
prevent him from selling a "smart" gun.

Finance

A start-up says that a failed Kickstarter campaign wasn't actually a failure -
it gave the company hope and context for its next move.

Entrepreneurship

A former Disney employee shares the "magical keys to business."

This is why entrepreneurs should focus on building just one product.

Technology

Symantec declares that antivirus software is deadand develops a new attack on
cyber-hacking: minimizing damage from breaches.

Sony supersizes data storage with a 185-terabyte cassette tape.

The explosive growth of cloud computing is shown in this infographic.

Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps
clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter.


     ·    The First Meeting Was Fabulous. Why Isn't My Phone Ringing?
     ·    Today in Small Business: Better Light Bulbs
     ·    Sometimes, the Video Doesn't Have to Go Viral
     ·    Today in Small Business: $100 Billion in Lending
     ·    Finding the Right Early Customers for a Start-Up


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (The New Old Age)

                              May 12, 2014 Monday

They've Deleted Their 'Spacebook' Profiles

BYLINE: PAULA SPAN

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 811 words



HIGHLIGHT: A new documentary describes a program in Toronto that links teenage
tutors to seniors who need computer lessons.


"Why don't you join the 21st century?" Annette Rapoport's friends used to grump
at her. They would send around Evites to parties, but they would have to mail
Ms. Rapoport a paper invitation. She didn't know how to use a computer.

But that was before Cyber-Seniors, a program that connects young people with
digital skills to older ones who ask questions like, "What is this thing called
Spacebook?" Ms. Rapoport, 80, one of about 40 Toronto seniors who signed up for
instruction, learned the basics from a 16-year-old named Henri Pelletier.

Now she keeps up with her grandchildren and nieces on Facebook.  When she
visited Australia and New Zealand, family and friends followed her adventures
via email dispatches. Now, she told me, her friends say, "Welcome to the new
world."

She's one of the stars of a documentary about the program, also called "Cyber
-Seniors," intended to encourage teenagers to help ease older adults online.  A
recent Pew Research study found that 59 percent of Americans over age 65 use the
Internet now, a six-percentage-point jump in just a year. But that leaves more
than 40 percent who don't.

"We're hoping for a million more seniors online, the kind who never used a
computer before," said Saffron Cassaday, the 27-year-old who directed and edited
the documentary.

You can see "Cyber-Seniors" in Los Angeles this week, in New York May 16 through
22, then in Salt Lake City on May 20.  After its hometown premiere in Toronto on
May 30, it will travel to Oregon, Pennsylvania and Colorado.

AARP Foundation, which also recruits young "digital coaches" through its
volunteer program Mentor Up, will sponsor additional screenings around the
United States.

People will like it, I think. It's delightful to see initially daunted seniors
laughing with their young mentors at computer keyboards. And the program's
intergenerational nature probably pays the kind of benefits that are hard to
measure but real.

"I learned tons from speaking with seniors," said Mr. Pelletier, who in high
school spent hours each week patiently pointing out what a mouse was and how to
double click.  "I was really having a good time."

As for his elderly students, "they get to learn a little about the younger
generation," he said. "Seniors see kids on their phones all the time.  Now they
know and understand more about what we're doing."

You can't really call "Cyber-Seniors" a penetrating documentary.  It tends
toward adorableness.  I cringed when a teenage mentor led her 93-year-old
student to post a rap video, complete with backward baseball cap and chains, for
a YouTube contest.

A bigger issue: Aside from the anxiety or forgetfulness that troubled some
participants, the film barely nods at the other obstacles older people face in
using technology. Its expense, for instance.

The Pew study points out that among those over age 65, roughly 90 percent of
college graduates and those with annual household incomes over $75,000 use the
Internet.  No problem there.  But in a senior digital divide, only about 40
percent of those with high school educations or less, or household incomes under
$30,000, are online.

About 40 percent of older people report a physical condition that makes reading
difficult, Pew researchers found.  And Internet use drops off after age 75.

Moreover, if we really think being connected benefits older people in important
ways, we need to lower their dropout rate. Only about half of the initial group
of seniors in the movie still use computers, Ms. Cassaday estimated. Though they
had a good time with the kids, they didn't find enough use for the digital
skills they were acquiring, or they grew frustrated with the process and
withdrew.

Still, the idea sounds promising. The Cyber-Senior organizers have created a
downloadable manual to help other young people teach older ones; Mentor Up
offers training materials, too. It may be simpler to find recruits in Ontario,
where public high school students must log 80 hours of community service in
order to graduate. In the United States, only Maryland and the District of
Columbia make service mandatory, but lots of teenagers might enlist voluntarily.

As I've written before, a number of long-established nonprofit groups and
community organizations also offer digital training, including OATS in New York
City; SeniorNet, with about 40 learning centers around the country; and the ,
operating in almost 30 metropolitan areas.  But with so many older people to
reach, recruiting digitally savvy - but patient - teenagers could help fill the
gap.

Lots of seniors want to learn from them, Ms. Cassaday said. The farther away
their families lived, she added, "the more eager they were to go online."


     ·    A Conversation With Roz Chast
     ·    A New Benefit for Heart Failure Patients
     ·    Aging Fast, and Nowhere to Go
     ·    The Documents You Need, When You Need Them
     ·    Fighting Words Are Rarer Among British Doctors


LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 13, 2014 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nuclear Talks Will Confront Iran's Future Capability to Enrich Uranium

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and STEVEN ERLANGER; David E. Sanger reported from
Washington, and Steven Erlanger from Brussels.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1171 words


WASHINGTON -- As Iran and six world powers meet this week in Vienna to begin
drafting language to resolve their nuclear standoff, negotiators say they are
finally confronting a crucial sticking point to a permanent agreement -- the
size and shape of the nuclear fuel production capability that Iran will be
permitted to retain.

It is a subject that, at least in public, the Obama administration steps around,
acutely aware that Israel and members of Congress who are highly suspicious of
the negotiations will say that Iran must be kept years from being able to
develop a weapon, and that opponents of the deal in Tehran will argue that no
restraints at all should be imposed.

Both the Iranians and the Western powers have said their talks so far have been
productive, with little of the drama, the ultimatums and the entrenched
positions that have marked previous efforts. But until now, there has been no
formal discussion of how much nuclear infrastructure the United States and its
allies would demand that Iran dismantle in return for the gradual easing of
sanctions. ''This is the sticker-shock conversation, and we haven't had it
yet,'' one senior administration official said.

In a visit to Israel last week, the national security adviser, Susan E. Rice,
and the chief American negotiator, Wendy Sherman, made clear that the Iranians
would almost certainly retain some enrichment capability, though American
officials said they never discussed specific numbers. Israeli officials say they
expect the figure to be 2,000 to 5,000 centrifuges. American officials say their
goal is to keep Iran more than a year away from the ability to produce fuel
usable in a single nuclear weapon, but they become vague about how much beyond
one year. It would take even longer to fabricate that into a deliverable weapon.

In a recent speech, President Hassan Rouhani of Iran was careful to describe
himself as open to more inspections, but not to dismantling the country's
nuclear infrastructure. ''We have nothing to put on the table and offer to them
but transparency,'' he told his country's Atomic Energy Organization, according
to accounts from Iranian news organizations. ''That's it. Our nuclear technology
is not up for negotiation.''

The Iranians are talking about expanding their current cache, to build upward of
50,000 centrifuges, the tall, silvery machines that spin at supersonic speeds,
enriching uranium at every turn. Iran currently has 19,000 installed, including
about 8,000 that are not yet running. If Iran ever reached its goal -- which is
highly unlikely in the next few years, especially with a new generation of
centrifuges that produce fuel much more quickly -- American experts say Iran
would be able to produce weapons-grade material in weeks.

''An enrichment capacity that large -- indeed, an enrichment capacity greater
than a few thousand first-generation centrifuges -- would give Iran an
unacceptably rapid breakout capability,'' Robert Einhorn, who until last year
was a key member of the Iran negotiating team for the State Department, wrote in
The National Interest last week. If that was more than just a negotiating
position, he wrote, ''it is a showstopper, and Iran must know that.''

''Breakout capability'' -- a phrase that means the ability to quickly produce a
bomb -- depends on many factors beyond the number of centrifuges left spinning
in Iran. The size of Iran's inventory of nuclear fuel, the frequency and breadth
of nuclear inspections, and the ability to detect secret facilities (two have
been discovered in the past decade) factor into the equation.

As Ms. Rice and Ms. Sherman have told American lawmakers and outside experts,
the key is to leave Iran with a face-saving nuclear infrastructure that would
allow its clerics and the nation's Revolutionary Guards commanders the ability
to argue that they have not given up the right to produce nuclear fuel, but with
a small enough capability that the White House can overcome Congressional
objections.

Allies of the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, still angry that the
Obama administration kept them in the dark about the secret negotiations with
Iran that led to the current round of talks, publicly set an enormously high bar
that they knew American negotiators could not clear. ''There are two models
here: Libya and North Korea,'' said Yuval Steinitz, Israel's intelligence
minister, in an interview on Monday. ''In Libya all the elements of the nuclear
program were handed over to the Americans and inspectors'' and left the country,
he said. ''In North Korea equipment was dismantled, then built again,'' he said,
''and then came their nuclear tests.''

But Mr. Steinitz acknowledged that the United States and its allies had made
what he termed ''reasonable progress'' in getting the Iranians to agree, at
least in principle, to modifying a heavy-water reactor near the town of Arak
that could be used to produce weapons-grade plutonium, another path to a bomb.
The head of Iran's atomic organization, Ali Akhbar Salehi, has said his agency
is willing to modify plans for Arak to reduce output significantly, indicating
some negotiating space. But there has been almost no progress on Iran's missile
capability; on Monday, Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, called
Western demands for limits on missiles ''stupid and idiotic.''

Even as the negotiators debate the size and scope of the Iranian nuclear
program, a new study of Iran's emerging use of cyberweapons concludes that the
country is beginning to follow China's model of using computer malware to
conduct espionage against American defense contractors and the government.

But the attacks from ''patriotic hackers'' whose exact links to the Iranian
government and its Revolutionary Guards remain murky, appeared to slow for a
time at the end of 2013, as the negotiations with the United States and Europe
began to gain some traction, according to the study by FireEye, a Silicon Valley
security firm. The findings were first reported by Reuters, and a copy of the
study was obtained by The New York Times.

The study focuses on what Iranian hackers call the Ajax Security Team, which it
says is ''conducting multiple cyberespionage operations against companies in the
defense industrial base within the United States'' and is targeting Iranians
trying to evade censorship at home.

Iranian officials have made clear that they view the cyber and nuclear issues as
closely related, especially after Iran suffered a debilitating attack, known
popularly as Stuxnet or by its code name, Olympic Games, which was designed by
the United States and Israel.

The cyberattacks led Iran to announce it was assembling a ''cyber corps.'' While
their techniques do not compare to those of the Chinese or the Russians, Iranian
hackers were determined to have been behind a 2012 attack on Saudi Aramco, the
oil producer. Iran was also believed to have been responsible for an attack on
the Navy Marine Corps Intranet that did little damage, but was considered a bold
challenge.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/05/13/world/middleeast/nuclear-talks-will-confront-i
rans-future-capability-to-enrich-uranium.html

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 13, 2014 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bridging a Digital Divide

BYLINE: By PAULA SPAN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; THE NEW OLD AGE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 797 words


''Why don't you join the 21st century?'' Annette Rapoport's friends used to
grump at her. They would send around Evites to parties, but they would have to
mail Ms. Rapoport a paper invitation. She didn't know how to use a computer.

But that was before Cyber-Seniors, a program that connects young people with
digital skills to older ones who ask questions like, ''What is this thing called
Spacebook?'' Ms. Rapoport, 80, one of about 40 Toronto seniors who signed up for
instruction, learned the basics from a 16-year-old named Henri Pelletier.

Now she keeps up with her grandchildren and nieces on Facebook. When she visited
Australia and New Zealand, family and friends followed her adventures via email
dispatches. Now, she told me, her friends say, ''Welcome to the new world.''

She's one of the stars of a documentary about the program, also called ''Cyber
-Seniors,'' intended to encourage teenagers to help ease older adults online. A
recent Pew Research study found that 59 percent of Americans over age 65 use the
Internet now, a six-percentage-point jump in just a year. But that leaves more
than 40 percent who don't.

''We're hoping for a million more seniors online, the kind who never used a
computer before,'' said Saffron Cassaday, the 27-year-old who directed and
edited the documentary.

You can see ''Cyber-Seniors'' in Los Angeles this week, in New York May 16
through 22, then in Salt Lake City on May 20. After its hometown premiere in
Toronto on May 30, it will travel to Oregon, Pennsylvania and Colorado.

AARP Foundation, which also recruits young ''digital coaches'' through its
volunteer program Mentor Up, will sponsor additional screenings around the
United States.

People will like it, I think. It's delightful to see initially daunted seniors
laughing with their young mentors at computer keyboards. And the program's
intergenerational nature probably pays the kind of benefits that are hard to
measure but real.

''I learned tons from speaking with seniors,'' said Mr. Pelletier, who in high
school spent hours each week patiently pointing out what a mouse was and how to
double click. ''I was really having a good time.''

As for his elderly students, ''they get to learn a little about the younger
generation,'' he said. ''Seniors see kids on their phones all the time. Now they
know and understand more about what we're doing.''

You can't really call ''Cyber-Seniors'' a penetrating documentary. It tends
toward adorableness. I cringed when a teenage mentor led her 93-year-old student
to post a rap video, complete with backward baseball cap and chains, for a
YouTube contest.

A bigger issue: Aside from the anxiety or forgetfulness that troubled some
participants, the film barely nods at the other obstacles older people face in
using technology. Its expense, for instance.

The Pew study points out that among those over age 65, roughly 90 percent of
college graduates and those with annual household incomes over $75,000 use the
Internet. No problem there. But in a senior digital divide, only about 40
percent of those with high school educations or less, or household incomes under
$30,000, are online.

About 40 percent of older people report a physical condition that makes reading
difficult, Pew researchers found. And Internet use drops off after age 75.

Moreover, if we really think being connected benefits older people in important
ways, we need to lower their dropout rate. Only about half of the initial group
of seniors in the movie still use computers, Ms. Cassaday estimated. Though they
had a good time with the kids, they didn't find enough use for the digital
skills they were acquiring, or they grew frustrated with the process and
withdrew.

Still, the idea sounds promising. The Cyber-Senior organizers have created a
downloadable manual to help other young people teach older ones; Mentor Up
offers training materials, too. It may be simpler to find recruits in Ontario,
where public high school students must log 80 hours of community service in
order to graduate. In the United States, only Maryland and the District of
Columbia make service mandatory, but lots of teenagers might enlist voluntarily.

As I've written before, a number of long-established nonprofit groups and
community organizations also offer digital training, including OATS in New York
City; SeniorNet, with about 40 learning centers around the country; and the
Connections program, operating in almost 30 metropolitan areas. But with so many
older people to reach, recruiting digitally savvy -- but patient -- teenagers
could help fill the gap.

Lots of seniors want to learn from them, Ms. Cassaday said. The farther away
their families lived, she added, ''the more eager they were to go online.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://newoldage.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/05/12/theyve-deleted-their-spacebook-pro
files/

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        May 15, 2014 Thursday 00:00 EST

The Internet Isn't Just for the Young;
Movie Review

BYLINE: NEIL GENZLINGER

SECTION: MOVIES

LENGTH: 265 words



HIGHLIGHT: The documentary "Cyber-Seniors" chronicles a program, developed by
Canadian teenagers, to teach elderly retirees how to use the Internet and social
media.


Early in the documentary "Cyber-Seniors," you might find yourself saying, "Ugh,
are they really going to make me watch octogenarians poke fruitlessly at laptops
for 75 minutes?" But the film soon stops that torture and becomes a likable
intergenerational tale with a bit of unexpected pathos.

It chronicles a program begun in Toronto by two high school sisters, Macaulee
and Kascha Cassaday, in which students tried to help residents of a retirement
community become more computer-literate. At first the film sounds like an
advertisement for Facebook, with the teenagers introducing their gray-headed
charges to it, generally at too fast a pace for an aging newcomer to absorb.

But eventually one instructor decides to make a YouTube video with his
instructee, and soon there's a contest to see which pair can come up with the
best video. Some of the results are funny -- here you'll learn that an iron is
actually a cooking tool -- while some are bittersweet. And as this is going on,
a distressing side story involving Macaulee develops. The film's director,
Saffron Cassaday, is her older sister, and she does a commendable job of melding
Macaulee's personal setback with the film's overall theme.

It would be nice to hear more from the young mentors about what they learned,
and more from the cyberseniors about how computer use might be made more
elder-friendly. But in general, this is a sweet tale that will resonate with
anyone who has tried to make a Skype call to a grandparent.

PHOTO: A pupil in "Cyber-Seniors," a  documentary by Saffron  Cassaday.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY BEST PART PRODUCTIONS)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 15, 2014 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

At Upfronts, CBS Breaks Up Comedy Block

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER and STUART ELLIOTT

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 948 words


AS the 2014-15 television upfronts draw to a close, Madison Avenue is
scrutinizing the decisions that top executives are making as they draw up
schedules for the coming season. Those strategies stood in sharp contrast at the
presentations made on Wednesday by a leading broadcaster and two large cable
channels.

The broadcaster, CBS, and one channel, TBS, voted for consistency, because,
executives said, their choices had resonated with viewers and advertisers. At
the other channel, TNT, there were frank admissions that its strategy was not
working and a shake-up was in order.

The mantra for CBS was voiced by Kelly Kahl, senior executive vice president for
CBS Primetime, who said, ''We combine stability with opportunity.'' The
stability was evidenced by the lengthy list of series returning from 2013-14:
20, more than any other broadcast network.

The opportunity was embodied by the addition to the CBS prime-time lineup of a
package of National Football League games, complementing the network's Sunday
football package and coming after NBC's successful decision to add football in
prime time, on Sunday.

CBS always tries to play from strength, and nothing on television is stronger
than professional football. So the addition of the Thursday package is a
centerpiece of CBS's new prime-time schedule. There will be two Thursday games,
on Sept. 11 and 18, before the official start of the 2014-15 season, then five
more in the season, from Sept. 25 through Oct. 23. (An eighth game will be
played on a Saturday.)

Still, CBS is making a change that will alter the prime-time landscape: For the
first time since 1986, it will not slate four comedies in a row from 8 to 10
p.m. on Monday. There will instead be two comedies at 8 and 8:30, followed by a
new hourlong drama, ''Scorpion,'' with comedic elements.

'' 'Scorpion' has so much humor and so much heart, and a great deal of action,''
said Nina Tassler, chairwoman of CBS Entertainment. Stars of the series, about a
team of geniuses fighting high-tech threats, include Katharine McPhee and Robert
Patrick.

Comedy has proved a challenge for every network of late, with drama dominating
audiences that now tend to watch more shows on delayed schedules. ''Certainly,
comedy is tough,'' Ms. Tassler acknowledged, adding that CBS could ''always go
back to a four-stack'' and rebuild its Monday comedy block.

CBS has television's biggest comedy by far, ''The Big Bang Theory,'' and will
take advantage of its increased access to football by showing that sitcom on two
different nights. When football is telecast on Thursday, CBS will move ''Bang''
to 8 p.m. on Monday from 8 p.m. on Thursday, hoping to draw more viewers to
''Mom,'' a freshman comedy returning for a second season, which will play after
''Bang'' at 8:30.

After Thursday football ends, ''Bang'' will move back to Thursday to lead off
that night's comedy four-stack. CBS's only new comedy of the fall, ''The
McCarthys,'' about a boisterous, sports-crazed Irish family, is being slotted
for 9:30 p.m. Thursday and will be preceded by ''Two and a Half Men,'' which CBS
said would run for a final season.

In a signature CBS strategy to pair holdover crime dramas with new series,
''Criminal Minds,'' which specializes in scaring viewers, will be followed on
Wednesday by a newcomer, ''Stalker,'' created by Kevin Williamson of the
''Scream'' movies. ''Stalker,'' about a detective unit devoted to stalker cases,
will have two prominent stars, Dylan McDermott and Maggie Q.

In another sign of stability, CBS's other new dramas are not completely new.
There will be another spinoff of ''NCIS,'' this one titled ''NCIS: New
Orleans,'' with Scott Bakula, and another spinoff of ''C.S.I.,'' called
''C.S.I.: Cyber,'' which will star Patricia Arquette and move the ''C.S.I.''
franchise into solving cybercrimes.

Later in the season, CBS plans to bring back shows like ''Mike and Molly'' and
''The Mentalist,'' and will add a new version of ''The Odd Couple,'' with
Matthew Perry, and a new police drama, ''Battle Creek,'' created by Vince
Gilligan of ''Breaking Bad'' fame.

Like CBS, TBS is hewing to a previous course, in this instance offering viewers
more original comedies that fit its identity as the ''Very Funny'' channel.

''The headline is, TBS is in great shape,'' said Michael Wright, president and
head of programming for three channels that are part of Turner Broadcasting
System, TBS, TNT and Turner Classic Movies. ''We've been consistent; you've been
able to depend on us.''

Additions to the TBS lineup include the pickup of the animated comedy ''American
Dad,'' which is ending its run on Fox after 10 seasons. Potential TBS newcomers
are liberally peppered with familiar comedic faces, among them ''Buzzy's,'' with
George Wendt of ''Cheers,'' and ''Angie Tribeca,'' a spoof of police series in
the vein of ''The Naked Gun,'' which stars Rashida Jones of ''The Office'' and
is the brainchild of Steve Carell and his wife, the comedian Nancy Carell.

TNT, by comparison, requires ''an aggressive refreshing,'' Mr. Wright said,
centered on ''taking smart risks'' that will produce grittier ''drama that
thrills'' and appeals to a younger audience. The channel's identity as ''TNT
Drama'' is being recast as ''TNT Drama. Boom,'' he added, signaling that its
shows needed to be ''a little louder'' to stand out among the cable competition.

Among the scheduled and potential newcomers are an action-science fiction show,
''The Last Ship''; a spy series, ''Legends,'' with Sean Bean of ''Game of
Thrones''; ''Murder in the First,'' a detective show from the producer Steven
Bochco; ''Proof,'' a supernatural series; and ''Public Morals,'' about New York
City vice police in the 1960s.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/05/15/business/media/at-upfronts-cbs-breaks-up-comed
y-block.html

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CBS will add ''Stalker,'' top, to its Wednesday night lineup.
It stars Dylan McDermott and Maggie Q. The drama ''Scorpion,'' above, will be on
the Monday night schedule. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD CARTWRIGHT/CBS
 MONTY BRINTON/CBS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 16, 2014 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Internet Isn't Just for the Young

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE
REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 280 words


CYBER-SENIORS

Opens on Friday in Manhattan.

Directed by Saffron Cassaday

1 hour 15 minutes; not rated

Early in the documentary ''Cyber-Seniors,'' you might find yourself saying,
''Ugh, are they really going to make me watch octogenarians poke fruitlessly at
laptops for 75 minutes?'' But the film soon stops that torture and becomes a
likable intergenerational tale with a bit of unexpected pathos.

It chronicles a program begun in Toronto by two high school sisters, Macaulee
and Kascha Cassaday, in which students tried to help residents of a retirement
community become more computer-literate. At first the film sounds like an
advertisement for Facebook, with the teenagers introducing their gray-headed
charges to it, generally at too fast a pace for an aging newcomer to absorb.

But eventually one instructor decides to make a YouTube video with his
instructee, and soon there's a contest to see which pair can come up with the
best video. Some of the results are funny -- here you'll learn that an iron is
actually a cooking tool -- while some are bittersweet. And as this is going on,
a distressing side story involving Macaulee develops. The film's director,
Saffron Cassaday, is her older sister, and she does a commendable job of melding
Macaulee's personal setback with the film's overall theme.

It would be nice to hear more from the young mentors about what they learned,
and more from the cyberseniors about how computer use might be made more
elder-friendly. But in general, this is a sweet tale that will resonate with
anyone who has tried to make a Skype call to a grandparent. NEIL GENZLINGER

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/05/16/movies/cyber
-seniors-focuses-on-a-program-for-retirees.html

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A pupil in ''Cyber-Seniors,'' a  documentary by Saffron
Cassaday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEST PART PRODUCTIONS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 19, 2014 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Political Procedurals Play Starring Role in Fall TV Season

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 985 words


IF the 2014-15 television season were to have a theme song, it might be ''Hail
to the Chief'' -- no, make that ''Chiefs.''

As Madison Avenue scrutinizes the schedules introduced by the networks last week
during the upfronts -- deciding which shows to support with advertiser dollars
and which to avoid -- it is becoming clear that the choices viewers will be
asked to make in the fall and beyond are heavily influenced by shows set in the
corridors of power in Washington, among them ''Alpha House'' on Amazon Prime,
''House of Cards'' on Netflix, ''Scandal'' on ABC and ''Veep'' on HBO. The
result is that every network could soon have its own presidential
administration.

''It's the 'Homeland' effect,'' said Dave Campanelli, senior vice president and
director for national television at Horizon Media, referring to the popular
Showtime series that combines its political plots with story lines addressing
subjects like espionage, counterterrorism and cybersecurity. Another example is
''24: Live Another Day'' on Fox, the sequel to ''24.''

''This allows the networks to offer political procedurals, similar to police
procedurals,'' Mr. Campanelli said. ''The political procedurals are about
solving world problems instead of murders.''

Examples of the trend include ''CSI: Cyber,'' ''Madam Secretary'' and
''Scorpion'' on CBS; ''Allegiance,'' ''Odyssey'' and ''State of Affairs'' on
NBC; and a potential series on TNT, ''President X.''

''They're all dark, and they're all about danger, and in every show someone is
out to get you and you hope someone will save the day,'' said Ed Martin,
television columnist for Mediapost.

''And increasingly, the 'someone' to save you is female,'' he added, citing
''Madam Secretary,'' with Téa Leoni; ''Odyssey,'' with Anna Friel; and ''State
of Affairs,'' with Katherine Heigl.

''Actresses are telling their agents, 'I want a job like Claire Danes on
'Homeland,' '' Mr. Martin said.

Speaking of saving the day, Marc Berman, editor in chief of TV Media Insights,
touched on another trend for the 2014-15 season: the increasing popularity of
''escapist shows'' with comic-book heroes and other otherworldly elements,
inspired by current series like ''Arrow'' on CW, ''Grimm'' on NBC, ''Marvel's
Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.'' on ABC, ''Sleepy Hollow'' on Fox and ''The Walking
Dead'' on AMC.

''The networks want to be sexy, to be exciting, to stimulate conversation in
social media, and it's hard,'' Mr. Berman said, so the answer is increasingly
''a nice-looking guy fighting crime with a bunch of zombies -- you know, the
usual thing.''

The newcomers in the escapist genre include ''Forever,'' ''Marvel's Agent
Carter'' and ''The Whispers'' on ABC; ''The Flash,'' ''iZombie'' and ''The
Messengers'' on CW; ''Gotham'' and ''Wayward Pines'' on Fox; and ''Constantine''
and ''Heroes Reborn'' on NBC.

Another reason more costumed crusaders will be on television, said Harvin
Furman, senior vice president for digital acceleration at the Starcom media
agency, is a desire for the ''big-screen success with superheroes'' to ''be
replicated on the small screen.''

The ''complicated plot lines'' of such series are easier for viewers to follow
these days, he added, because of the ''ability to watch on their schedule'' by
going online or using DVRs and video on demand.

Mr. Martin offered his theory on the proliferation of escapist programming.
''There may be a greater emphasis on developing shows like this because of
Comic-Con,'' he said, a reference to the annual pop-culture event where series
with genre appeal are frequently introduced.

''It's a transformative experience for network executives to get a rush of love
and support from thousands of people, and they come away on cloud nine,'' Mr.
Martin said.

Steve Kalb, senior vice president and director for video investments at the
Mediahub division of Mullen, described the embrace of ''dark drama'' and other
escapist entertainment as an example of how the networks are making ''a lot of
investment in content with high production values'' as they confront more
competition.

While ''cable has always influenced prime-time development,'' he added, now the
networks must also consider platforms like Netflix that stream programming.

''Visually, 'Gotham' was interesting,'' Mr. Kalb said about the Fox series, a
Batman origin story. ''Talk about dark.'' The newcomer is a ''good match'' with
''Sleepy Hollow,'' he added, which will follow ''Gotham'' on Monday.

Although ''comedy took a little bit of a back seat,'' in Mr. Kalb's estimation,
he said he liked ''Black-ish,'' a new sitcom that ABC plans for 9:30 p.m.
Wednesday. ''It seems well done,'' Mr. Kalb said, and compatible with ''Modern
Family,'' its lead-in at 9 p.m.

He was less enthusiastic about a new NBC comedy, ''Bad Judge,'' calling it ''a
tough one'' and noting that CBS ''just canceled a sitcom, 'Bad Teacher.' ''

Mr. Campanelli said he also liked ''Black-ish,'' about an upper-middle-class
black family, adding, ''The diversity across the networks was really nice to
see, too, a lot of diversity in the casting but not done just to be diverse.''

Mr. Campanelli praised another new ABC comedy in that vein, ''Fresh Off the
Boat,'' about an Asian-American family.

Mr. Berman said he believed that '' 'The Flash' is going to work for CW'' and
called ''NCIS: New Orleans,'' a second ''NCIS'' spinoff on CBS, ''a surefire
hit.'' But he deplored a decision by CBS to break up its long-running Monday
comedy block by scheduling a drama with comedic elements, ''Scorpion,'' at 9
p.m.

''It's a very risky maneuver that's not going to work,'' Mr. Berman said,
because ''CBS has never opened up a fall season with a drama at 9 on Monday.''
Two new ABC romantic sitcoms, ''Manhattan Love Story'' and ''Selfie,'' ''look
awful,'' he added.

Mr. Martin listed those shows, with two rom-coms on NBC, ''A to Z'' and ''Marry
Me'' as contenders for becoming ''the first floperoo'' of the coming season.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/05/19/business/media/political-procedurals-play-star
ring-role-in-fall-tv-season.html

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Téa Leoni portrays Elizabeth McCord, the shrewd, determined
secretary of state on ''Madam Secretary,'' a new drama on CBS. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
CRAIG BLANKENHORN/CBS)
Among the women in strong roles is Anna Friel, as Sgt. Odelle Ballard on
''Odyssey,'' a global conspiracy thriller on NBC. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIRGINIA
SHERWOOD/NBC)
 Anthony Anderson, left, and Laurence Fishburne as father and son on
''Black-ish,'' a comedy about a well-off family on ABC. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM
TAYLOR/ABC)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                              May 19, 2014 Monday

Questions Remain After Chinese Hacking Indictments

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1087 words



HIGHLIGHT: After the indictment of five members of a Chinese military hacking
unit Monday, a nagging question remained: What about the other 20 hacking groups
intelligence officials are tracking in China?


The indictments of five Chinese military hackers by the Justice Department on
Monday has raised questions of what actions, if any, American officials plan to
take against members of the more than 20 other hacking units that American
officials and their partners are currently tracking inside China.

"If you look at all the groups that we track in China, this is just the very tip
of the iceberg," said George Kurtz, a co-founder of Crowdstrike, a private
security firm that has been tracking the People's Liberation Army Unit 61398 and
other hacking groups in China. "The indictments are just one piece of a broader
puzzle."

Beyond Unit 61398, the National Security Agency and its intelligence partners
are currently tracking more than 20 Chinese hacking groups - over half of them
Chinese military and naval units - as they break into an array of American
government agencies and companies, ranging from drone and nuclear weapon parts
makers to technology, retail and energy firms and nonprofit research
organizations, according to a half-dozen United States officials who declined to
be named because of the classified and ongoing nature of the investigations.

Security officials said that the indictments were intended to push China to get
serious about reining in various P.L.A. hacking units and that they have been in
the works for two years. One of the major challenges, officials said, was
persuading the victim corporations - which feared a loss of sales in China or
state retaliation - to come forward.

"They had to gather really strong evidence that these companies had been hacked,
and then had to convince the companies to go public, despite fear of
retaliation," said James A. Lewis, a cybersecurity expert at the Center for
Strategic Studies in Washington, who has participated in several official
Sino-American discussions on cyberespionage.

The indictments, Mr. Lewis said, are not about what the United States will do
with these hackers, but what the Chinese government will do with them. "The
indictment is meant to send a clear public message to China that they need to
take action," he said. "They need to get these P.L.A. entities under control."

While the majority of the groups the N.S.A. has been tracking, including Unit
61398, are P.L.A. units, officials say many of them are murky collectives of
hackers from privately owed Chinese companies and state-funded universities that
officials believe have been contracted by the Ministry of State Security,
China's civilian spy agency, to hack victims - such as clean energy firms - that
help China meet its economic objectives.

Officials say it is unclear how the Chinese government tasks such missions, a
quandary that has taken on more urgency after analysts were able to trace
sophisticated cyberattacks against a disconcerting list of victims - drone and
missile makers and nuclear technology developers among them - to three privately
contracted groups of Chinese hackers.

Officials say one of these privately contracted groups, based in Guangzhou,
China, has been tied to attacks against defense contractors - including missile,
satellite and space technologies and nuclear propulsion technology developers -
in the United States, Britain and Russia. More recently, two officials said that
the group has expanded its targets to include law firms, which hold valuable
intellectual property for their clients but often lack the security defenses of
a larger corporation.

Separately, officials say, the N.S.A. and its partners have been tracking a
group of privately employed technology workers based in the industrial city of
Tianjin. Since 2005, officials say, they have tied attacks on defense
contractors and technology and energy firms, as well as Chinese separatists, to
the group.

One of these groups of privately employed Chinese hackers that have officials
most concerned is also one of the least prolific.<<< Since 2008, officials say
members of this group have surgically struck a number of companies that develop
drones and satellite technology.

Officials say that they believe these groups work at the behest of the Ministry
of State Security and that the fact that they are contracted but not directly
employed by the state gives Beijing a degree of deniability.

But the vast majority of groups the N.S.A. and its partners are tracking are
units of the People's Liberation Army's Second and Third Departments, which
maintain eavesdropping posts across China. They say Unit 61398 - formally the
Second Bureau of the People's Liberation Army's Third Department - accounts for
only a slice of the attacks orchestrated by the P.L.A.'s Third Department.

According to interviews with three former government officials, the N.S.A. began
tracking the PLA's Third Department in 2004 after its First Bureau hacked into
the Pentagon's networks, two former government officials said. Since then, the
unit has been tied to numerous cyberattacks on foreign telecom and technology
companies that specialize in networking and encryption equipment, like the types
manufactured by American companies including Cisco, Juniper and Broadcom.

Judging by their victims, officials say other P.L.A. bureaus are assigned to
targets - including politicians and diplomats at government agencies - in
specific geographies. For example, one P.L.A. bureau has been tied to several
attacks against diplomats and politicians in South Asia, while another has been
linked to attacks on targets in Central Asia, including the foreign ministries
of Afghanistan, India and Pakistan.

Officials also say that thousands of attacks against the military networks of
the United States and a number of Asian countries, including South Korea and
Japan, have been  attributed to the Chinese Navy's First and Second Technical
Reconnaissance Bureaus.

After Monday's indictments, American officials say that they will be looking to
see what, if any, steps Beijing takes to curb cyberespionage.

"A lot of this will depend on how the Chinese react to this in private," said
Mr. Lewis, the cybersecurity expert. "If they blow this off, you could imagine
actions by the Treasury, visa restrictions on travel or restrictions on study."

He added: "The Chinese have more to lose in this than we do."


     ·    Daily Report: U.S. Eases Some Rules on Data Disclosure
     ·    Daily Report: Snowden Trained as Hacker While With N.S.A., Résumé Says
     ·    Daily Report: White House Calls for More Privacy Protections
     ·    Heartbleed Internet Security Flaw Used in Attack
     ·    2 Regulators Issue Guidelines on Sharing Cyber Security Information


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Sinosphere)

                              May 20, 2014 Tuesday

Charges of Chinese Cyberspying, Wanted Posters Included

BYLINE: AUSTIN RAMZY

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1214 words



HIGHLIGHT: The five members of China&#8217;s military accused of hacking against
American companies are at the top of the F.B.I. &#8220;Cyber&#8217;s Most
Wanted&#8221; list, but little has been revealed about them beyond their names
and aliases.


A United States indictment accusing members of China's military of computer
hacking against American companies has put a face on a practice the Obama
administration has long complained of, the use of state cyberwarfare
capabilities to steal corporate secrets. While little is publicly known about
the five indicted members of the People's Liberation Army, the F.B.I. has
released photos and aliases of the men accused of being members of the Chinese
military's computer espionage Unit 61398, also known as the "Comment Crew."

The members of the Shanghai-based unit went by online handles such as
"UglyGorilla," "WinXYHappy" and "KandyGoo." With the announcement on Monday of
the 31-count indictment filed at a federal court in Pittsburgh, the five were
placed at the top of the F.B.I. "Cyber's Most Wanted" list.

They were shown in "Wanted by the F.B.I." posters, a nearly century-old practice
of telling the public whom law enforcement officers are trying hardest to
capture. But unlike other wanted posters, those produced for the five hacking
suspects reveal little beyond their names and aliases. It was not clear how the
photos of the men, two of whom are shown in military uniform, were obtained.


As Michael S. Schmidt and David E. Sanger write, the charges were "almost
certainly symbolic since there is virtually no chance that the Chinese would
turn over the five People's Liberation Army members named in the indictment."

The "Comment Crew" was outlined publicly last year in a report by the United
States-based security firm Mandiant, which said a building off Datong Road in
Shanghai was most likely a P.L.A. cyberspying headquarters because of the large
number of attacks that emerged from there.

The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs denounced the indictment. A ministry
spokesman, Qin Gang, said the case was "based on fabricated facts, grossly
violates the basic norms governing international relations and jeopardizes
China-U.S. cooperation and mutual trust," according to a statement posted on the
ministry's website.

The ministry said it summoned the United States ambassador to China, Max Baucus,
Monday evening to register its complaints regarding the legal case. It also said
that China would suspend its participation in a United States-China working
group on cybersecurity.

China's Ministry of National Defense also condemned the indictment, saying "the
Chinese government and military have never engaged or participated in any theft
of commercial secrets over the Internet," according to a statement posted on its
website on Tuesday. It accused the United States of "hypocrisy and double
standards" and said that WikiLeaks and the revelations of the former National
Security Agency contractor Edward J. Snowden had shown that the United States
has the technology and capabilities "to carry out large-scale, organized
cybertheft, bugging and monitoring against foreign politicians, businesses and
individuals."

In a news analysis, David E. Sanger writes that the Obama administration is
drawing a fine line between hacking done for national security purposes and that
done for commercial gain, a division that is not recognized by China. And the
United States does not always respect that line, either, Mr. Sanger writes:

Even before Mr. Snowden walked out of the Hawaii facilities of the N.S.A. with a
trove of documents, it was clear that the United States was not above economic
espionage, as long as it was not for the direct benefit of specific companies.

For example, the United States spies regularly for economic advantage when the
goal is to support trade talks; when the Clinton administration was locked in a
high-stakes negotiation in the 1990s to reach an accord with Japan, it bugged
the Japanese negotiator's limousine. At the time, the chief beneficiaries would
have been the Big Three auto companies and a smattering of parts suppliers. It
is also widely believed to be using intelligence in support of trade
negotiations underway with European and Asian trading partners. But in the view
of a succession of Democratic and Republican administrations, that is fair game.

Companies can also be targets. Documents released by Mr. Snowden showed that the
American government pried deep into the servers of Huawei, one of China's most
successful Internet and communications companies. The documents made clear that
the N.S.A. was seeking to learn whether the company was a front for the People's
Liberation Army and whether it was interested in spying on American firms. But
there was a second purpose: to get inside Huawei's systems and use them to spy
on countries that buy the company's equipment.

The indictment lists Westinghouse Electric, SolarWorld, United States Steel
Corporation, Alcoa and Allegheny Technologies as the companies targeted by the
hackers along with a labor union, the United Steelworkers, which had encouraged
the United States to pursue trade cases against China.

The indictment does not specify the Chinese state-owned enterprises that would
have benefited, listing them simply as SOE-1, SOE-2 and SOE-3. However,
descriptions of the cases give strong signals as to their identities.

The indictment says that Westinghouse signed a contract to construct four
reactors in China for SOE-1 on or around 2007, which coincides with the American
nuclear power plant builder's contract to build reactors for the China National
Nuclear Corporation, or C.N.N.C.  The State Nuclear Power Technology
Corporation, which is partly owned by C.N.N.C., contracted with Westinghouse on
the project, indicating that it or C.N.N.C. is most likely SOE-1.

Allegheny Technologies Inc., or A.T.I., had a joint venture with SOE-2,
according to the indictment, and A.T.I. and the Chinese company were also
involved in litigation before the World Trade Organization, both of which
describe A.T.I.'s relationship with the Chinese steel maker Baosteel.

SOE-3 is probably the Aluminum Corporation of China, or Chinalco. The indictment
says that in 2001 Alcoa entered into a partnership with a Chinese aluminum
company to purchase shares, which would have been Chalco.

The indictment raises further questions about the United States' strategy in
pursuing such a public case, Nicole Perlroth writes, and whether the legal
challenge will be expanded:

Beyond Unit 61398, the National Security Agency and its intelligence partners
are currently tracking more than 20 Chinese hacking groups - over half of them
Chinese military and naval units - as they break into an array of American
government agencies and companies, ranging from drone and nuclear weapon parts
makers to technology, retail and energy firms and nonprofit research
organizations, according to a half-dozen United States officials who declined to
be named because of the classified and ongoing nature of the investigations.

While most of those hacking groups are military units, they include private
companies and academic institutions, Ms. Perlroth writes, and the ways they are
organized and contracted are far from clear.


     ·    A Magazine Cover for a Famously Humble Ambassador
     ·    Pushing Back Against Government Surveillance
     ·    After Obama Visit, Planned Naval Drills With Russia Reported
     ·    F.B.I. Video Warns of Efforts to Recruit American Students as Spies
     ·    Chinese Government Expands Freedom of Information


LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 22, 2014 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hacking Charges Threaten Further Damage to Chinese-American Relations

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1150 words


WASHINGTON -- President Obama was not involved in the decision to indict five
members of the People's Liberation Army, an administration official said on
Wednesday. But bringing the charges, the official said, was consistent with Mr.
Obama's belief that the United States needed to adopt tougher measures after
President Xi Jinping brushed off Mr. Obama's repeated demands that the Chinese
government curb the hacking of American companies.

''Our message wasn't getting through,'' the official said, speaking on condition
of anonymity, as the United States tried to contain China's expected retaliation
to the charges.

The Justice Department had been assembling its case for several years, the
officials said, and worked to persuade the American firms that were victims of
the alleged theft to go public, which many companies were reluctant to do. But
the timing of the indictments had injected an unpredictable new source of
tension to Chinese-American relations at a moment when the White House was
already rattled by China's muscle-flexing in its coastal waters, which has
brought it into conflict with Vietnam, Malaysia, and two treaty allies of the
United States, Japan and the Philippines.

Beijing and Washington might soon find themselves at odds over another sensitive
issue: how to rein in the rogue government in North Korea. The administration is
weighing whether to impose further sanctions on Pyongyang that could target
Chinese enterprises active in the North, a move certain to inflame tensions with
Beijing. Mr. Obama discussed the possibility with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of
Japan during a private dinner in Tokyo last month, according to an official
familiar with the discussion.

While administration officials said the relationship with China has proved
resilient to other blows -- arms sales to Taiwan, for example, or Mr. Obama's
meetings with the Dalai Lama -- they acknowledged that bringing indictments
against members of the Liberation Army is different, particularly given the
military's influential role with Mr. Xi, a relatively new Chinese leader.

On Thursday, the administration will be pressed to go even further. Senator
Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, has said he will call for the United
States to file a case against China with the World Trade Organization for
sanctioning cyberattacks against American corporate interests. Such a move, Mr.
Schumer said, would put muscle behind the legal indictments.

''This is an important signal to China and other countries that cyberattacks
against U.S. businesses are absolutely unacceptable,'' Mr. Schumer wrote in a
letter to be delivered Thursday to the United States trade representative,
Michael B. Froman. ''However, the United States and other countries who are
victims of these attacks are powerless to enforce their own laws if the
offending country refuses to extradite the accused.''

Because cybercrime is a relatively new phenomenon, there is some question about
whether the World Trade Organization could bring cases under its existing rules.
But Mr. Schumer said organization members are required to protect trade secrets,
which means that cyberespionage would differ little from walking out of a
corporate office with the information.

So far, American officials say, the Chinese reaction to the indictments has been
predictable, including suspension of dialogue on cybersecurity, demands that the
indictments be withdrawn, threats of retaliation against American companies or
officials and reminders of what the National Security Agency does. Analysts said
they would not be surprised if the Chinese military retaliated by canceling some
contacts with the American military.

For the White House, Mr. Xi poses a major uncertainty. Since ascending to
Chinese leadership 18 months ago he has proved more willing than many expected
to risk clashes with China's neighbors over disputed territory in the South and
East China Seas. That is driven, analysts said, partly by his need to secure the
support of the military, a need that could play into China's reaction to these
indictments.

''If you look around China's periphery, China's relations are bad with a lot of
its neighbors,'' said another senior official, also speaking on condition of
anonymity. For the administration, the legal action is viewed as a path to
forcing the Chinese government -- and the P.L.A., which has often run its own
foreign policy -- into a diplomatic dialogue that it has resisted for three
years.

The administration pressed its case with private and public messages that were
all but ignored, officials said. Some officials believe the Chinese were
calculating that after the revelations of N.S.A. surveillance operations in the
past year, the White House would back away from its cyber theft initiatives.

At an informal summit meeting in California last year, Mr. Obama propelled cyber
issues to the top of the agenda, warning Mr. Xi that if China did not take it
seriously, it would damage the broader relationship. ''We had a very blunt
conversation about cybersecurity,'' Mr. Obama told Charlie Rose of PBS after the
meeting.

The effort to engage the Chinese on cyber issues began in earnest in early 2011,
as the attacks on American corporations, defense contractors, think tanks,
universities and media outlets began to accelerate. The United States said it
wanted to make the conversations part of the Strategic and Economic Dialogue, an
annual meeting of Chinese and American officials.

James B. Steinberg, then the deputy secretary of state, led the effort and
recalled on Wednesday that China ''sent a good range of people from the P.L.A.,
and security and communications officials,'' but that the discussion was not
highly substantive.

A more detailed conversation came the following year. In 2013, after the public
revelations of the attack led by Unit 61398, the army's cyberwarfare unit, Mr.
Obama tried to move the conversation to what his national security adviser, Tom
Donilon, called ''the center of the relationship.''

But the effort was undermined by the revelations from Edward J. Snowden, the
former N.S.A. contractor. Mr. Steinberg, who has just written a book with
Michael E. O'Hanlon about United States-China relations titled ''Strategic
Reassurance and Resolve,'' said that the goal should be to ''build on the
process that we used when there was evidence of proliferation activity by the
Chinese'' in the nuclear arena.

Mr. Steinberg said that if the Chinese were unresponsive, ''that's when you show
some resolve'' and press the issue with indictments, sanctions or other steps.
''But there needs to be an endgame,'' he said, ''because this can't be resolved
by legal means or unilateral actions.''

For now, however, the administration said the indictments would serve a purpose.
''We have found that it's important to set those limits and boundaries,'' a
senior official said. ''Sometimes friction is useful.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/05/22/world/asia/hacking-charges-threaten-further-da
mage-to-chinese-american-relations.html

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Sinosphere)

                             May 22, 2014 Thursday

Q & A: Adam Segal on China, Cyberspies and the Moral High Ground

BYLINE: EDWARD WONG

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1650 words



HIGHLIGHT: Adam M. Segal, an expert on China and cybersecurity at the Council on
Foreign Relations, discussed the clash between the United States and China over
cyberspying.


This week, the United States took its most aggressive step yet in trying to curb
what it calls Chinese state-sponsored hacking attacks aimed at stealing trade
secrets from American corporations. The Justice Department on Monday announced
an indictment against five members of the People's Liberation Army accused of
corporate cyberespionage. United States officials say the five men belong to
Unit 61398, which operates out of an office tower on the outskirts of Shanghai.

The unit, known within the cybersecurity industry as the Comment Crew or the
Shanghai Group, was first publicly named in a report on Chinese cyberespionage
released in February 2013 by Mandiant, an American computer security firm. (The
New York Times hired Mandiant to investigate a breach of its internal network in
autumn 2012, and the attack was traced to a group inside China, but not the
Comment Crew.)

In its announcement, the Justice Department released photographs of the five
hacking suspects, with at least two in military uniforms. But the issue of
cyberespionage has become a much murkier issue for the United States following
disclosures by Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency
contractor. China has denounced the indictment and said it is itself the victim
of cyberespionage by the United States. The Obama administration continues to
insist there is a distinction between spying for national security purposes and
spying to steal corporate secrets that would benefit business interests. In an
interview, Adam Segal, an expert on China and cybersecurity at the Council on
Foreign Relations, discussed the clash over cyberspying:

 Q.

Why did the Obama administration move forward at this time with the indictment
of these five members of the People's Liberation Army? How long have Justice
Department officials and others in the administration been discussing this kind
of action?

A.

The timing seems to be the result of frustration with diplomacy. The Obama
administration has raised the issue for many years with Beijing and, in the
spring of 2013, waged a "naming and shaming" campaign against China-based
cyberattacks, which culminated with President Obama raising the issue with
President Xi Jinping at the Sunnylands summit. That diplomatic effort stalled,
and the indictment can be seen as a signal that the U.S. government still takes
the issue seriously. But even before the diplomatic process had run its course,
the government was considering methods of imposing costs on Chinese hackers. In
late 2012, the Justice Department announced that it planned to indict
state-sponsored hackers; set up a special unit, National Security Cyber
Specialist network; and asked the F.B.I. to begin looking for cases that the
Justice Department could bring to court.

Q.

Has any progress been made in the dialogue between the United States and China
on cyberespionage? How did the Snowden revelations affect that dialogue?

A.

On cyberespionage, the two sides keep speaking past each other, swapping
accusations and stressing their own victimhood. But it is unlikely that either
side ever thought the U.S.-China cyber working group would make progress on
espionage, which is not usually subject to international norms. There was some
hope, however, that the two sides could begin to come to some understandings
about the rules of the road for cyberconflict. What type of cyberattacks should
be considered a use of force or armed attack? Are there targets, like hospitals
or the financial system, which should be off limits? The Snowden revelations
certainly increased the mistrust on the Chinese side, reinforcing the need for
the dialogue. The Chinese have suspended the dialogue in response to the
indictment. Both sides have an interest in their resuming soon.

Q.

Do you think this new step in a name-and-shame strategy by the United States
will have any practical impact? Will it have any effect in a more abstract
sense?

A.

The indictments have very little practical impact in the short term, except for
the possibility of retaliation from Beijing. They are symbolic but in an
important way for three different audiences. They are a clear escalation with
Beijing, and so a marker of the importance of the issue to the United States
government. They are an effort to encourage other countries, particularly in
Europe, to push back against China-based hacking. U.S. Attorney General Eric
Holder tied the indictments to the larger trade system when he argued that
"success in the global marketplace should be based solely on a company's ability
to innovate and compete, not on a sponsor government's ability to spy and steal
business secrets." And they were a response to complaints from American
companies that Washington had to do something about the theft of intellectual
property, trade secrets and business strategies.

Q.

There are many people, and not just in China, pointing to the hypocrisy of this
latest move by the United States, given the assertions made by Snowden. Does the
United States have the standing to take the moral high ground on this issue?

A.

The United States, along with its friends and allies, is right to question China
about cyberespionage directed at private companies. It is a threat to the
competitiveness of companies and to national economies. That said, other
countries, including U.S. friends and allies, are right to question the United
States government about what type of surveillance it is conducting in cyberspace
and whether the pursuit of American national security interests risks not only
weakening important bilateral relationships, say with Germany and Brazil, but
also undermining the global, open, secure and resilient Internet. They are two
interconnected but distinct concerns.

Q.

Can the Obama administration's fine parsing of national security versus economic
cyberespionage - the former being justified and deemed legal and the latter not
- be applied in the real world? Will other nations accept this? How can this
distinction be applied to countries with economic models that are very different
from that of the United States?

 A.

It is an uphill slog, and the United States has not gotten much traction in the
real world. The distinction between cyberespionage for security or national
economic interest versus cybertheft for the benefit of specific companies is
lost, not credible or not meaningful to many, if not most, other countries.
Instead of hoping for widespread adoption of the norm, the United States may do
better through unilateral action, like the indictments, or embedding
restrictions on companies that benefit from cybertheft in future trade
agreements.

Q.

Was there a change to the level of Chinese state-sponsored hacking that targeted
foreign companies after the release of the Mandiant report in early 2013? What
are the current levels of Chinese state-sponsored hacking compared to the levels
that existed before the Mandiant report was released?

A.

It appears that the specific group mentioned in the Mandiant report, APT1, also
known as Unit 61398 of the 2nd Bureau of the People's Liberation Army General
Staff Department's 3rd Department, ceased activity after the report, and then
returned a few months later to its historical levels of attacks. In addition,
much of the slack was taken up by other hacking groups. A group called APT12 by
Mandiant increased its attacks. Over all, the levels of attacks are the same.

Q.

How much of economic cyberespionage from China is being done by the People's
Liberation Army as opposed to that being done by hackers employed by companies?
Why do you think the United States decided to focus on P.L.A. hackers in the
Justice Department indictments?

A.

There is no open-source estimate of how much of the hacking is state-based
versus individual or freelance hackers, but the focus on P.L.A. hackers may
reflect their importance and efficacy in economic cyberespionage. It is also
probably rooted in the belief that it should be easier to get the Chinese
leadership to rein in P.L.A. hackers than those employed by hundreds of
companies.

Q.

What do we know about the relationship between P.L.A. hackers and Chinese
state-owned enterprises or other Chinese companies? Is cyberespionage a
work-for-hire service offered by the P.L.A.? Is it a profit center for the
P.L.A.?

 A.

There are many types of relationships. Some P.L.A. hackers offer their services
under contract to state-owned enterprises. For some critical technologies, it is
possible that P.L.A. hackers are tasked with attacks on specific foreign
companies. Some freelance hackers offer their wares to the P.L.A. or to
state-owned enterprises - they may enter into longer-term arrangements. A number
of high-profile hackers have become "white hats," setting up companies and
offering their cybersecurity expertise to the P.L.A. and to state-owned
companies.

Q.

What do we know about the numbers and abilities of hackers or cybersecurity
experts in the P.L.A.?

A.

Project 2049 identifies the General Staff Department's 3rd Department as "a vast
bureaucracy responsible for monitoring foreign communications, assuring the
security of P.L.A.computer and communications networks, and conducting
cybersurveillance on priority targets around the world." It includes units that
focus on Korea and Japan, Russia, Europe and the rest of the world.

In public writings, Chinese analysts are worried about the state of
cybersecurity in the P.L.A. They note defensive weaknesses, especially the
dependence on American technology. They decry the lack of offensive units, and
they are uneasy about the budget and capabilities of U.S. Cyber Command. Western
cybersecurity experts tend to rank Chinese hackers below the Russians. China
brings numbers to the problem. The hackers go after more targets, and spend more
time in the networks. The Russians bring more technological skill and are more
surgical.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 25, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

America, China and the Hacking Threat

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 649 words


Over several years of trying to persuade China to stop cyberattacks against
corporate America, the Obama administration has gotten nowhere. What officials
say is the most aggressive effort by any country to steal secrets from some of
the most prominent and successful American companies is still going strong.
Losses are estimated at billions of dollars in profits and thousands of jobs.

In this context, the Justice Department's decision to indict five members of the
Chinese People's Liberation Army for fraud is understandable as a feel-good
gesture and seems within the parameters of American law. As a matter of
substance, though, it is pointless and perhaps counterproductive.

The indictments reflect the administration's frustration with China's resistance
to proposals that differences about cybersnooping be discussed through
diplomatic channels and that rules of the road be worked out. To underscore
American seriousness, President Obama raised the issue with China's president,
Xi Jinping, at last year's summit meeting in California, but that seemed to have
little effect.

The 31-point indictment, in the works for two years, named members of Unit
61398, which was publicly identified last year as the Shanghai-based cyber unit
of the People's Liberation Army. It alleged that since 2006, the hacking unit
invaded the networks of American corporations, including Westinghouse Electric
and the United States Steel Corporation, copying their emails and infecting
computers with malware. Such behavior cannot go unchallenged. Hacking deprives
firms of proprietary intellectual property that they have spent billions of
dollars and countless hours developing. It compromises an Internet that depends
on the free flow of information.

Mr. Obama is always under political pressure, some of it no doubt from American
corporations, to act tough with China. Still, the Justice Department's
unprecedented legal action has serious weaknesses -- and is largely symbolic.

It is hard to imagine, first of all, that the indicted men will present
themselves in the United States for trial. The administration also has drawn a
tenuous distinction between spying for national security reasons and spying on
foreign companies for economic advantage, which it says must not be permitted.
But America's own practices are a problem. As National Security Agency documents
made public by Edward Snowden revealed, the United States regularly uses
cyberspying to gain economic advantage in trade talks. Many other countries,
including France, are also aggressive in spying to benefit domestic companies.

The case has certainly gotten China's attention. The Chinese state media
petulantly called the United States a ''mincing rascal'' for lodging the case.
More substantively, the Chinese have called off the bilateral working group that
was the only venue dedicated to cyberissues, and they have announced plans for
tighter checks on foreign technology companies doing business in China.

It would be unfortunate if China used the confrontation to withdraw totally from
cooperating with the United States, especially on improving relations between
the two militaries -- an effort that has just begun to gain traction. Tensions
have already risen over China's aggressive moves in the South China and East
China seas.

China, as a rising economic power, believes that ferreting out the business
secrets of foreign companies is a national security interest. One day, however,
it will have its own pathbreaking achievements and will want to protect them.

The responsible thing would be for China to work with the United States now to
establish rules of the road that would reduce economic hacking and equip the two
countries with strategies for reacting to cyberattacks during military-related
tensions. Washington should make clear that the option for dialogue on
cyberissues remains open, even as it pursues its legal case.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/05/25/opinion/sunday/america-china-and-the-hacking-t
hreat.html

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Sinosphere)

                              May 26, 2014 Monday

Beijing Levels New Attack at U.S. Cyber-Spying

BYLINE: CHRIS BUCKLEY

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 479 words



HIGHLIGHT: In a lengthy, political indictment of American cyber-espionage, a
Chinese government agency has accused the Obama administration of spying on the
Internet on a scale far greater than that of other countries.


A week after United States prosecutors indicted five People's Liberation Army
officers on charges of cyber-theft, a Chinese government agency has issued its
own lengthy, political indictment of American cyber-espionage, accusing the
Obama administration of spying on the Internet on a scale far greater than that
of other countries.

China's counterblast came in a report on Monday from the Internet Media Research
Center, an arm of the State Council Information Office, which manages government
press and propaganda, according to the state-run news agency Xinhua. Although
the report relied heavily on foreign news accounts of the former National
Security Agency contractor Edward J. Snowden's revelations about United States
surveillance, it said that Beijing's own official inquiries had borne out Mr.
Snowden's assertions that Chinese leaders and companies had been targeted.

"Several months of investigations by the relevant Chinese agencies have found
that the parts about cyber-theft activities against China were basically
accurate," the report said of Mr. Snowden's claims, according to a summary by
Xinhua. "U.S. monitoring operations have involved the Chinese government and
leaders, Chinese companies and scientific research institutions, ordinary
Internet users and many mobile phone users," said the report.

The United States Justice Department alleged that five Chinese military hackers
working in Shanghai infiltrated the networks of American corporations, and stole
sensitive emails and industrial secrets.

The Chinese government has responded by asserting its innocence and saying that
the United States government has long used the Internet and communications
interception to steal secrets. The report from the Internet Media Research
Center, part of that public relations counteroffensive, was promptly featured on
Chinese television and on news websites.

"Such conduct is a brazen violation of international law and a gross violation
of human rights," said the Chinese report, echoing words that are often leveled
at the Chinese government. "This should be resisted and condemned by the entire
world."

But the report may also be another worrisome signal of policy direction for
foreign companies trying to do business in China's Internet and
telecommunications sectors. It repeated claims that such companies went along
with clandestine data collection by the National Security Agency.

"Surveillance cooperation between U.S. intelligence agencies and privately owned
entities, especially with Internet service providers, has gone on for over six
years," the Chinese report said, citing a Washington Post article from last
year.

Last Thursday, China's State Internet Information Office said it would require
stricter vetting of companies selling Internet technology and services in
sectors "related to national security and the public interest," state media
reported.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 31, 2014 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iran Hackers Dangle a Familiar Name to Fish for Data

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; Nicole Perlroth contributed reporting from San
Francisco.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 824 words


WASHINGTON -- Over the years, John R. Bolton has played many roles in
Washington. He was American ambassador to the United Nations, where he famously
suggested the place could lose many of its floors -- and the bureaucrats who
worked on them. He was the State Department's combative counterproliferation
chief during George W. Bush's first term, and these days he regularly appears on
Fox News to denounce the Obama administration as weak and feckless.

It turns out he is also the favorite neoconservative of Iranian hackers.

Mr. Bolton said he learned this week that his identity had been stolen by
hackers whom a Texas cybersecurity firm identified as a group of Iranians. It is
not clear if they were government agents, part of the ''cybercorps'' that Iran
organized after American- and Israeli-developed cyberattacks on its nuclear
infrastructure, or whether they were ''patriotic hackers.''

But clearly they were in search of information about Washington's elite. In the
old days of the Cold War, they would have operated by hanging out at the
Occidental Grill or cocktail parties at the French Embassy, hoping to pick up a
bit of loose conversation. These days, they did it by faking a LinkedIn account
for Mr. Bolton, and gradually engaging in chats with people who believed they
were exchanging thoughts with a man who some conservatives hope will run for
president.

''I think the Iranians were after me to get all the secrets that the Obama
administration has imparted to me about the Iranian nuclear program,'' Mr.
Bolton, now a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute here, said dryly on
Friday.

''I'm honored they picked me,'' he said. ''They must have been looking for the
most anti-Iranian regime person in Washington. I'm proud to win that award.''

Mr. Bolton was hardly the only one; a report released this week by iSight
Partners, a computer security firm in Dallas, said the attacks compromised the
computers of roughly 2,000 users. ''This marks the emergence of Iran on the
cyberespionage landscape,'' said John Hultquist, the head of cyberespionage
intelligence at iSight.

The campaign described by iSight appears to have started in 2011, just months
after the discovery of the Stuxnet computer worm, which attacked Iran's nuclear
enrichment center at Natanz and destroyed upward of 1,000 centrifuges. Ever
since, American intelligence officials have viewed Iran as a growing
cyberthreat, even if it has a long way to go to catch up with its Russian and
Chinese counterparts.

But compared with other cyberattacks, the one aimed at Mr. Bolton -- first
reported by Foreign Policy magazine and The Daily Beast -- was amateurish. It
was a ''spear-phishing attack,'' an effort to get people to respond to an email
or other invitation, in hopes of revealing their passwords or contact lists. Mr.
Bolton may have been the target, or he may have been collateral damage in a
broader attack on the American Enterprise Institute.

Similar attacks have been directed at other think tanks, from the Council on
Foreign Relations to the Aspen Institute. In each of those cases, the hackers
seemed interested in power brokers, former power brokers, consultants,
contractors and journalists, apparently on the theory that those targets have
confidential insights into the American government.

''This shows that the Iranians are energetic, and with relatively limited skills
they take full advantage of what they can do,'' said James Lewis, a cyberexpert
at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. ''But it doesn't show
them entering the big leagues. This is pretty basic level stuff.''

The iSight report did not say what types of data the hackers were able to steal,
but the list of targets suggested that hackers may have been after plans for
military weapons systems. A fake website used by the group, NewsOnAir.org, was
registered in Tehran and sites that hackers used to deploy their malware were
hosted in Iran. The malware of the hackers contained several Persian words, and
the time stamps of their activity tracked with professional working hours in
Tehran.

The hackers used a dozen fake personas and connected with victims over Facebook,
LinkedIn, Twitter and YouTube. They sent malicious links to their targets; the
unlucky victims had malware downloaded on their machines.

Among the fake personas employed by the hackers were the names of real
journalists. In others, they claimed to be employees at military contractors, a
tax adviser and reporters for the fake news organization set up by the hackers.

Some experts said it was remarkable that such techniques still work. ''You know,
they say that on the Internet no one knows you are a dog,'' said Jason Healey,
who runs the Cyber Statecraft program at the Atlantic Council, referring to a
famous New Yorker cartoon in which canine computer users are musing on the
benefits of their anonymity. ''But there are still a lot of stupid people when
it comes to clicking on links.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/05/31/world/middleeast/iran-hackers-dangle-a-familia
r-name-to-fish-for-data.html

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John R. Bolton, a former ambassador  turned cybertarget.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY STAN HONDA/AFP -- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 1, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

American Businesses in China May Feel Retaliatory Sting of Cybershowdown

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Kiki Zhao and Bree Feng contributed research from
Beijing.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1492 words


BEIJING -- A top Chinese general was in a combative mood as he presided recently
over an international security forum at a historic hotel near the Forbidden
City. Among the attendees were a retired American admiral and a former American
diplomat.

The general, Sun Jianguo, delivered his message in an interview with the
official military newspaper: The United States was ''the world's biggest
cyberthief,'' he said on Tuesday, and had accused China of state-sponsored
hacking simply to draw attention away from itself. He invoked a Chinese saying:
''A thief always shouts, 'Stop, thief!' ''

Chinese officials are ramping up political and economic pressure on the United
States government and large technology companies following the Justice
Department's announcement on May 19 of indictments against five members of the
Chinese Army on charges of economic cyberespionage. Prominent Chinese officials,
agencies and commentators have announced or called for measures that are widely
seen as retribution for Washington's latest charges as well as earlier related
accusations, raising the specter of a trade war and stoking anxiety among
American companies that do business here.

At the same time, Chinese technology companies are seizing on the tensions to
press state agencies to mandate the use of domestic technology.

Some American executives say the Justice Department's move took them by
surprise. They are now nervous over a May 22 announcement by China's State
Internet Information Office that the government has established procedures to
gauge potential security risks of Internet technology and services.

Last week, a Communist Party organization published a scathing attack on Cisco
Systems, and a Chinese state-owned technology company trumpeted a campaign to
oust IBM from the server market.

''Definitely things have changed in terms of the intensity now,'' said Duncan
Clark, chairman of BDA, which advises investors on the Chinese technology
sector. ''There's an element of gamesmanship here. It could get ugly.''

The threat of tit-for-tat retaliation was made explicit in an opinion piece
posted Wednesday on the English website of Global Times, a state-run newspaper.
It said: ''What has happened or what will happen on U.S.-based companies,
especially those closely related to information security, is the consequence of
China reinforcing its capability and prudence to defend cyber and information
security, thanks to the U.S. ratcheting up its espionage against China in recent
years.''

On Tuesday, a website of the influential Communist Youth League published the
attack on Cisco, which sells high-end routers to government offices and
companies throughout China. The editorial, which was carried by major state news
organizations, said Cisco ''carries on intimately with the U.S. government and
military'' and was ''becoming an important weapon in the U.S. exploiting its
power over the Internet.'' Cisco denied the charges.

Some Chinese companies are stepping forward as the official backlash against
American technology grows. Alibaba Group, one of China's biggest technology
firms, announced Wednesday that it hoped its cloud computing products would
replace storage services that big American companies had sold to Chinese
financial institutions.

A Chinese state-owned company, Inspur Group, announced Wednesday on a social
networking platform that it planned to ''completely take over'' IBM's main
server business in China, and that it had begun a program called ''I2I'' or
''IBM to Inspur'' -- part of an ''irreversible trend of localization.'' Inspur
also said that it was open to employing any IBM workers and ''transferring
projects'' from rivals, and that it had already hired 80 employees of ''a
multinational company.'' An Inspur employee said that company was IBM.

Inspur, known in Chinese as Langchao, or Wave, has long been trying to usurp IBM
as the dominant player in the server market here. IBM servers are used in
state-owned banks. But in March 2013, a nationwide financial institution, Postal
Savings Bank of China, began a pilot project to use Inspur servers, according to
state news reports at the time. Several provincial banks did the same.

Central government agencies, including the People's Bank of China and the
Finance Ministry, are reviewing the use of IBM servers and considering whether
to expand the use of Chinese-made servers, Bloomberg News reported last week.

A spokesman for IBM said the company was not aware of any Chinese government
policy recommending that the banking industry not use IBM servers.

Analysts say China's drive to promote domestic technology companies over foreign
rivals is decades old, but competition with American interests became acute
after the House Intelligence Committee said in October 2012 that two of China's
largest telecommunications businesses, Huawei Technologies and ZTE Inc., were a
national security threat. The companies denied the charges, but the bipartisan
report dealt a severe blow to their efforts to win contracts and sell equipment
in the United States. (In the China router market, Huawei is the main challenger
to Cisco.)

Shortly afterward, Chinese officials had serious discussions over establishing a
security review process for foreign technology. That was a precursor to the
security review procedures announced on May 22.

Tensions between the United States and China over information security escalated
early last year when the Obama administration and an American cybersecurity
firm, Mandiant, said the Chinese government and military were big players in
global cyberespionage. American officials say the five Chinese Army men indicted
this month are members of Unit 61398, which was the focus of the Mandiant
report.

The published leaks from Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency
contractor, in the summer of 2013 undercut the Obama administration's criticisms
of China and made Chinese officials even warier of American technology. Chinese
news reports talked about the dangers of China being ''infiltrated'' through
technology from big American companies nicknamed the ''eight guardian warriors''
-- Cisco, IBM, Google, Qualcomm, Intel, Apple, Oracle and Microsoft.

Cisco's sales in China have dropped sharply. And the national procurement office
recently barred government offices from using Microsoft's Windows 8 operating
system.

The emphasis on information security is reflected by the fact that China's
president, Xi Jinping, is the head of a new working group on cybersecurity.
Attempts to wean China off foreign technology are consistent with longstanding
national policy, said Mark Natkin, managing director at Marbridge Consulting, a
technology consultancy in Beijing. ''There's this weird foreign idea that
everything should be fair,'' he said. ''Ultimately, what China is striving
towards is promoting domestic champions and buying locally.''

But Mr. Natkin and other industry analysts say there may be pushback by Chinese
companies and institutions against government orders here to get rid of foreign
technology if the move is costly or a domestic alternative is inferior.
''There's a cost consideration and product life cycle,'' Mr. Natkin said. ''If
they've purchased equipment recently from IBM, for example, there would be
reluctance to swap out.''

China Central Television, the state network, posted an online report on Thursday
that revealed similar skepticism in the banking industry. ''Everyone uses IBM,''
a senior technology officer at a state bank told the reporter. ''We've been
using them for many years. If you say stop using them, isn't that ridiculous?''

The mission of some powerful government agencies is the promotion of Chinese
businesses and technology. One such agency is the Ministry of Information and
Industry Technology. Last year, for example, the agency said in a paper on
cellphone technology that Google had overbearing dominance of the market for
smartphone operating systems.

''In China's domestic market, the Android system is in a situation where it has
almost absolute advantage,'' the agency said. It said the Chinese companies
Huawei, Alibaba and Baidu had put a ''huge amount of money and human talent''
into developing viable alternatives, but that they ''face commercial
discrimination from Google all the time.''

That sentiment was articulated recently on a much broader level by Fang Binxing,
who is credited with creating the system of Internet blocking in China known as
the Great Firewall. In remarks published May 23 on the website of People's
Daily, the Communist Party newspaper, Mr. Fang said each country needed to build
its own main servers because ''the Internet is a world that belongs to the
U.S.''

''The ability of Americans to carry out Internet attacks is so strong that other
people don't even know how they are beaten,'' Mr. Fang said. ''They don't know
when and where they are beaten. They don't have the capabilities to catch the
U.S., and thus the U.S. has nothing to fear.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/06/01/world/asia/american-businesses-in-china-feel-h
eat-of-a-cyberdispute.html

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The People's Bank of China and other agencies are reviewing
their use of IBM servers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIAN BRADSHAW/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO
AGENCY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                              June 2, 2014 Monday

Today in Small Business: The Best Restaurant Location in the World?

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 444 words



HIGHLIGHT: A new plan to cut carbon-dioxide emissions. How to find a
manufacturer for your product. And do you know what your tooth-to-tail ratio is?



What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.

The Economy

The Restaurant Performance Index is at its strongest level since May 2013.

Here are 35 econometric charts from May that will tell you how the rest of the
world is doing.

Management

Want to know the true cost of adding another manager? Watch your tooth-to-tail
ratio.

Manufacturing

Here's how to find a manufacturer for your product.

Employees

The number of college graduates heading into freelancing has doubled in the last
year.

More than a million workers across the country are joining safety stand-downs to
focus on saving lives in the construction industry.

Washington

The Obama administration is expected to propose a new plan to cut carbon-dioxide
emissions from the nation's power plants.

And here's a discussion of the effectiveness of cap-and-trade plans.

In Norfolk, Va., the evidence of climate change is in the streets.

Solar energy is about to disrupt the utility industry, according to recent
research.

Here are five reasons the deficit has fallen by nearly $5 trillion - and why
that's a bad thing.

Have you voted to support National Entrepreneurs' Day?

A new federal database will track Americans' credit ratings and other financial
information.

Social Media

TweetDeck allows users to add images to scheduled tweets.

Here's why Pinterest is moving slowly to learn how to make money.

Twitter launches an interactive guide to help small businesses reach their
goals.

Cash Flow

Here are four ways to raise cash off of your invoices.

Online

A baby eye-browing trend hits the Internet

Around the Country

A couple of guys from Philadelphia have taken over an iconic Manhattan location
that they consider the best in the world for a restaurant.

Fargo, N.D. is  reinventing itself as a magnet for creative types and
entrepreneurs.

In Portland, Ore., police and bar owners in the Old Town Entertainment District
say crime is down dramatically since street closures went into effect, but some
business owners are complaining that business is down, too.

The Washington Post weighs in on whether a Walmart should be built in Maryland's
Montgomery County.

Around the World

China's manufacturing growth was up for the third straight month.

American businesses in China are feeling the heat of a cyber dispute.

Entrepreneurship

As Father's Day approaches, here are some gifts an entrepreneurial dad might
enjoy.

Technology

Hewlett-Packard is bringing Android to laptops.

This infographic shows how 3-D printing is shaping business.

Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps
clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 3, 2014 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Automating Cybersecurity

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1563 words


If only computers themselves were smart enough to fight off malevolent hackers.

That is the premise of an ambitious two-year contest with a $2 million first
prize, posed to the world's computer programmers by the Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency, better known by its acronym, Darpa. It is the
blue-sky, big-think organization within the Defense Department that created a
precursor of the Internet in the late 1960s and more recently held a contest
that spurred development of self-driving cars.

Michael Walker, the Darpa cybersecurity program manager who is running the
contest, imagines a future in which sensors on computer networks could detect
intruders, identify the flaws that let them in, and automatically make the
necessary repairs, all without a human computer expert lifting a finger.

No such system exists today. The network security flaw called Heartbleed, for
example, persisted for years in Web servers around the world before experts
found it in April; hackers who knew about it could have used it to steal
passwords and personal information. (Whether anyone did is unknown, but there
were attacks after the bug was disclosed.) ''Not a single automation tool has
stepped forward and said it could find that flaw unassisted,'' Mr. Walker said.

With numerous flaws in complex software, large data thefts have become
commonplace. The credit card numbers of millions of Target shoppers were stolen
last year. Last month, eBay told its users to change their passwords after its
servers were breached.

''The problem is the fortification principle,'' Mr. Walker said. ''The cost for
defenders of trying to block every possible weakness is so much greater than the
cost of attackers, to be able to find one way in.''

The targets of the future will be even wider as networked computer processors
show up in watches, thermostats, cars -- the so-called Internet of Things. Then
the potential consequences will include not just stolen data and crashed
computers but crashed cars in the real world.

''If we don't have a new security model,'' said Daniel Kaufman, the director of
Darpa's Information Innovation Office and Mr. Walker's boss, ''we're kind of
doomed.''

Mr. Kaufman said that perfect security was impossible, but that the goal was to
make cyber security more like physical security. A determined thief can break
into a locked, alarmed house, but cannot burglarize an entire neighborhood in
one swoop.

''It's not like the bad guys are going to say, 'Well played, Darpa -- we give
up,' '' he said. ''But if nothing else, we will have eliminated easy attacks and
raised the cost to them of any attack.''

Darpa announced its Cyber Grand Challenge last fall. On Tuesday, it will release
details that will allow programmers to start preparing the qualifying round, to
be held a year from now. More than 35 teams have already signed up to compete.

Seeking Collaboration

The fundamental security imbalance is that human experts are too slow to spot
and fix vulnerabilities before attackers can exploit them.

The top experts, who tend to work for the government or financial companies, are
often able to protect the most valuable and sensitive information. But vast
stretches of the Internet are less carefully protected.

And computers that might automate the task have limited sleuthing skills.

Mr. Walker likened the situation to computers that play chess. It was in 1950
that Claude E. Shannon, the pioneering computer scientist, outlined what it
would take to create a competitive chess program; that, Mr. Walker said, is
about where automated cybersecurity stands now.

Not until 1970 did the Association for Computing Machinery set up a chess
tournament in which computers played each other. (Good human players were bored
by such feeble opponents.)

The competition spurred quick improvements as programmers collaborated with
chess players, blending the expertise of both fields. Seven years later, a
computer beat a player with a grandmaster rating. In 1997, IBM's Deep Blue
defeated Garry Kasparov, the world chess champion.

Mr. Walker said he expected the cybersecurity challenge would bring together
hackers with academic researchers, and the collaboration could similarly spur
advances. ''We want to collide the two,'' he said.

Darpa also has a history of successful grand challenges. In 2004, it offered a
$1 million prize for a robotic vehicle that could drive itself 150 miles across
the Mojave Desert in California.

The most successful competitor drove just 7.3 miles. The following year, five
cars finished the entire course. Many of the engineers who competed in the Darpa
challenge now work at Google, developing self-driving cars that are driving on
public roads today.

'A Petri Dish'

The Cyber Grand Challenge is modeled roughly after ''capture the flag''
competitions at computer security conferences like Def Con, held each year in
Las Vegas, in which teams are given software with deliberate flaws. They quickly
analyze the software and figure out how to exploit the flaws to read hidden
information on competitors' computers while devising defenses to fend off
attacks from the other teams. (The Darpa team has hired programmers who had
previously put together the Def Con competitions.)

The hope is that such an elaborate analysis-and-defense system can be automated.
''Studying software sounds like it's something machines should be able to do,''
Mr. Walker said. But like chess, cybersecurity is far from simple. Pieces of
such a system do exist. David Brumley, a computer science professor at Carnegie
Mellon University in Pittsburgh and chief executive of the start-up
ForAllSecure, led a team that developed a computer program that scans software
for the Linux computer operating system. In 33,000 pieces of Linux software, it
discovered 13,000 flaws that could cause the software to crash -- and it
demonstrated the crashes.

''We actually generate a working exploit,'' Dr. Brumley said. ''That's the
difficult part.''

In 152 cases, they showed that they could even take over the computer, turning
it into a zombie to follow their commands.

In the Cyber Grand Challenge, the competitors will each be given a suite of
software programs with hidden, intentional security flaws that perform some
tasks on a closed computer network, perhaps things like receiving and sending
email, responding to information requests like a Web server.

As the automated systems defend themselves, they must ensure that these workaday
programs (called challenge binaries) continue to operate. Thus, the
cybersecurity system acts like an airport checkpoint: It will earn points if it
allows the challenge binaries to operate as designed -- the equivalent of
letting harmless luggage pass through an X-ray machine -- while detecting and
stopping attacks from competitors.

The contest software and network will be incompatible with the Internet --
partly so none of the flaws and hacks accidentally escape and infect, but mainly
to create a simplified, controlled environment in which the teams can come up
with general strategies that can be widely applied.

''It's a petri dish for computer security,'' Mr. Walker said.

A Lingering Friction

Darpa is providing grants of $750,000 to each of seven teams, including one
organized by Dr. Brumley, but the competition is open to any team.

Dr. Brumley's team will consist of employees of ForAllSecure. While he has a
system for finding and exploiting bugs, he lacks other parts of an automated
system, like the ability to fix them.

The top seven teams in the qualifying round will then each receive $750,000 to
prepare for the finals, which will be held in 2016 in Las Vegas, at the same
time and place as Def Con. The winning team will take home $2 million. The
second-place finisher will win $1 million, and third place receives $750,000.

Because Darpa events are free and open to the public while Def Con is a paid
conference, the two events will be separate but adjoining. That represents a bit
of a dÃ©tente between the government and the hacker world, whose relations have
been particularly tense since Edward J. Snowden's revelations about the computer
surveillance tactics of the National Security Agency. Last year, Jeff Moss, the
founder of Def Con, wrote in a public message, ''I think it would be best for
everyone involved if the feds call a 'time-out' and not attend Def Con this
year.''

Mr. Moss said that this year there would not be a big welcome mat for government
employees, ''but we're not going to say, 'You're disinvited' or 'Stay away.' ''

Mr. Moss did not hold the N.S.A. spying revelations against Darpa. ''I think
Darpa is a completely different animal,'' he said. The cybersecurity challenge
will be an exciting match, Mr. Moss added. ''It's a glimpse into the future.
These problems seem ripe for automation.''

Mr. Walker also said he wanted to broadcast the competitions over the web and to
enlist game developers to come up with eye-catching visualizations showing the
ebb and flow of battle between the computers.

''We also need sportscasters,'' he said, adding: '' 'Sportscaster' may not be
the right word. Professional explainers.''

For the humans behind the computer competitors, it will be an odd change from
the capture-the-flag competitions. Instead of several intense days pounding on
keyboards, they will just set up their systems and then watch with everyone
else.

''It's going to be nerve-racking,'' Dr. Brumley said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/06/03/science/automating-cybersecurity.html

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) (D4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 3, 2014 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Secret Global Strike Kills 2 Malicious Web Viruses

BYLINE: By MATT APUZZO

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 983 words


WASHINGTON -- Federal agents over the weekend secretly seized control of two
computer networks that hackers used to steal millions of dollars from
unsuspecting victims. In doing so, the Justice Department disrupted the
circulation of two of the world's most pernicious viruses and turned a
30-year-old Russian computer hacker into a most-wanted fugitive.

The strike, coordinated with the European authorities, was aimed at malware
called GameOver Zeus, which is known to steal bank information and send it to
overseas hackers, and CryptoLocker, which burrows into computers and encrypts
personal data. The hackers then demand a ransom to unlock the files.

''By the time the victims learned that their computers had been infected, it was
far too late,'' Leslie R. Caldwell, the assistant attorney general in charge of
the criminal division, said Monday.

Together, the Justice Department estimates, the two malicious programs have
infected between 500,000 and a million computers and cost people more than $100
million in direct and indirect losses.

Authorities had been investigating the two viruses separately, but along the
way, they realized that GameOver Zeus was the main vehicle by which CryptoLocker
was spread, the Justice Department said.

They also determined that the operations were run by the same man, whom the
Justice Department identified as Evgeniy M. Bogachev, of Anapa, Russia.
Investigators were hunting for him even before they knew his name. Inside the
F.B.I., he has long been one of the government's most sought-after individual
cybercriminals, through his screen name, Lucky12345.

While both pieces of software are distributed through spam emails, they
accomplish different things, each highly damaging.

Once inside a computer, GameOver Zeus quietly tracks each keystroke. When the
software detects someone logging into a bank account, it records the password.
Armed with that information, hackers log in and drain the account. Often they
stole more than $1 million from businesses, prosecutors said, with at least one
theft exceeding $6 million.

CryptoLocker spreads through emails that look like they are from legitimate
businesses, including fake tracking notices from FedEx and U.P.S. Once inside a
network, such as a company's computer system, the virus can spread from one
computer to the next. As it spreads, the software locks up computer files behind
unbreakable encryption, then demands hundreds of dollars in exchange for the
code that unlocks it.

Investigators say many people and organizations, including the police department
in Swansea, Mass., have paid to recover their files. Those who refused saw their
files permanently erased. Such so-called ransomware is a growing security
threat.

Investigators have targeted large malicious software networks, known as botnets,
before. In 2011, the F.B.I. hijacked a command-and-control server that ran the
similarly harmful Coreflood network. It then sent a shutdown command to every
infected computer, effectively killing the virus in one stroke.

This weekend's takedown, which was months in the making, was far more difficult.
While CryptoLocker used a command-and-control server, GameOver Zeus did not.
Instead, it relied on a decentralized structure, and it did not have a simple
shutdown command.

In meetings late last year, F.B.I. agents and private security experts devised a
plan to outsmart the hackers. The best chance the F.B.I. had to wrest control of
the network, it was decided, was by seizing all the servers that transmitted the
malicious code and rerouting their traffic to a safe, government-controlled
computer.

In theory, every time an infected computer asked for instructions to carry out
its malicious mission, it would instead find itself harmlessly talking to the
United States government.

But the GameOver Zeus servers were spread across the world. If the agents missed
one infected server, the hackers could use it to restart the network and
continue spreading the code.

''You don't want to have any loose ends,'' said Shawn Henry, a former top F.B.I.
cyber investigator and president of CrowdStrike Services, one of several
security firms that worked with government on the case. ''You want it to be
swift. You want it to be complete.''

Early last Friday, authorities in Canada, France, Germany, Luxembourg, Ukraine
and the United Kingdom physically took over the servers that served as the
backbone for GameOver Zeus and CryptoLocker, Ms. Caldwell said. All Internet
traffic was then rerouted, under a court order, to the government's safe
computer.

All weekend, the agents waited and watched for signs of success. Investigators
worked from command centers at F.B.I. headquarters in Washington, Europol
headquarters at The Hague in the Netherlands and at the National Cyber-Forensics
& Training Alliance in Pittsburgh.

One by one, computers across the world contacted the government's safe computer,
signifying that America, not the hackers, was in control of the network. With
each electronic ping, the government collected the Internet addresses of the
infected systems, providing a map of the worldwide infection.

By Sunday, officials said they were confident they had dismantled the network
and collected enough data to help security firms and technology companies clean
infected computers.

''More than 300,000 victim computers were freed from the botnet,'' Ms. Caldwell
said. ''We expect that number to increase as additional computers are powered on
and connect to the Internet this week.''

CryptoLocker similarly came under United States control, Ms. Caldwell said.

On Monday, the government unsealed court documents charging Mr. Bogachev with
bank, computer and wire fraud. The F.B.I. placed Mr. Bogachev on its list of
most-wanted cybercriminals.

Mr. Bogachev remains free and the United States has asked Russian authorities to
turn him over. Those discussions are continuing, the Justice Department said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/06/03/world/europe/battling-destructive-computer-vir
uses-agents-seize-networks-used-by-hackers.html

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:   Leslie R. Caldwell, an assistant United States attorney
general, describing the weekend assault that ended the malware called GameOver
Zeus and CryptoLocker. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY CAMERON/REUTERS) (B8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 15, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

BYLINE: By RACHEL LEE HARRIS

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; ON THE HORIZON; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 139 words


Suite Sales Hotels in Florida, the Caribbean, Mexico and Latin America are
preparing for the second annual Cyber Summer hotel sale taking place on the
summer solstice. On June 21 from 12 a.m. to 11:59 p.m., discounted rooms can be
booked at participating upscale hotels, from $98 a night (30 percent off the
regular rate) at Casa Palopó, a boutique hotel on Lake Atitlán in Guatemala, to
$300 a night (50 percent off) for a beachfront junior suite at CuisinArt Golf
Resort & Spa in Anguilla.

Some deals include resort credits and in the case of the JW Marriott Cusco in
Peru, free in-room oxygen. Travel dates begin June 21 and go through October,
with a few properties offering sales on travel through this December and January
2015, with the exception of black-out dates. A list can be found at
cybersummertravel.com.

RACHEL LEE HARRIS

URL:

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CUISINART GOLF RESORT & SPA, ANGUILLA)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 15, 2014 Sunday
                                    National

In Democratic Stronghold, a Republican Fights Back

BYLINE: By JULIÁN AGUILAR.

jaguilar@texastribune.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 1108 words


EL PASO -- A San Antonio native and former C.I.A. agent is trying to break
through in the only region in this Republican state where congressional
Democrats hold a steady grip: Texas' border with Mexico.

But predicting whether Will Hurd, who lost a Republican primary bid for the same
seat four years ago, will prevail against United States Representative Pete
Gallego, Democrat of Alpine, is as tasking as guessing where someone in this
sprawling tossup district resides.

The 23rd Congressional District includes almost 25 percent of the Lone Star
State's land, all or a part of 29 counties, two time zones, about 800 miles of
border and two major population centers: El Paso and Bexar Counties. It is also
a seat that has changed hands twice in two general election contests, and it is
one of only nine congressional districts in which voters favored Mitt Romney
over President Obama in 2012 but elected a Democrat to Congress.

''I learned long ago you run unopposed or you run scared,'' said Mr. Gallego,
52, who is in his first term in Congress after serving 11 terms in the Texas
House. He added, ''By the nature of the district, it is a competitive race.''

A campaign spokesman for Mr. Hurd, 36, said that the candidate was not available
for an interview. Mr. Hurd has said that the district is tired of career
politicians and that the House could benefit from his credentials. ''There is
nobody in the 435 members with my experience in intelligence and national
security,'' Mr. Hurd told The Big Bend Sentinel in May.

Mr. Hurd lost the 2010 primary election to Francisco ''Quico'' Canseco, who then
defeated United States Representative Ciro Rodriguez, a Democrat, by about five
percentage points. Mr. Canseco lost to Mr. Gallego in the 2012 general election
by a similar margin. In a rematch, Mr. Hurd upended Mr. Canseco in the May
runoff.

Colin Strother, a Democratic strategist who worked for United States
Representative Henry Cuellar, Democrat of Laredo, in the district before its
boundaries were redrawn, said that Mr. Hurd's positions align with Tea Party
values. Though that could be a benefit for Republicans in most of the state, it
would work against Mr. Hurd in his congressional bid, Mr. Strother said. He
cited Mr. Gallego's membership in the Blue Dog Coalition, which bills itself as
representing the center of the United States House.

''Pete has been very supportive of pro-economic policies, the oil and gas
industry in particular, which provides a lot of jobs in that district,'' he
said. ''The current political environment with the current anti-Hispanic,
anti-immigrant -- be they legal or undocumented -- rhetoric from the Republican
Party, combined with who the Tea Party chose to face him, is really advantageous
for Pete.''

Mr. Hurd, according to his campaign website, does not stray far on similar
issues, however. He also supports ''decreasing the regulatory burdens facing
those creating and expanding businesses'' and ''protecting our economic future
by balancing our budget and simplifying our tax code.''

Matt Mackowiak, a Republican strategist who worked as a press secretary for Kay
Bailey Hutchison, a former United States senator, said what Mr. Hurd had in his
corner was the lack of faith voters have in their elected officials in
Washington.

''Gallego is an incumbent, and being an incumbent at this time when
congressional approval ratings are so low in a district like this, it's a
dangerous place to be in,'' he said.

Mr. Strother said the state Republican Party's newly adopted platform could hurt
Mr. Hurd in the border district, though Mr. Strother added it might not be easy
for Democrats to directly tie Mr. Hurd to it. That platform favors eliminating
in-state tuition rates for undocumented immigrants and banning so-called
sanctuary cities, local governments that prevent local law enforcement from
enforcing federal immigration laws. It also eliminated a call for a national
guest worker program.

Mr. Mackowiak said labeling every Republican as an extremist is an easy plot for
Democrats seeking to persuade Hispanics to vote for a Democrat.

Mr. Hurd ''probably had no role in how the platform was developed. It was
developed by activists,'' Mr. Mackowiak said. ''I think there is a little bit of
an oversimplification in that Republicans are going back to Tea Party and
hard-line.''

Although the platform is nonbinding, Mr. Gallego said that he believed district
voters may expect Mr. Hurd to distance himself from his Republican colleagues
who supported the immigration plank.

''That platform is a statement of principles that its candidates are expected to
abide by,'' he said. ''I think it becomes incumbent upon a candidate to
essentially disavow some of the things that are in that party platform.
Otherwise I think the assumption is that you are a true believer.''

On his site, Mr. Hurd talks about ''making border security, countering drug
traffickers and fighting cyber criminals a national intelligence priority.''

Mr. Mackowiak said a party platform could be ''a headache'' but added that it
has never decided a race. Instead, Mr. Hurd's success could hinge on how
successful he is in reaching out to potential voters.

''The question is going to be: Are the Republicans going to come in for Hurd?''
Mr. Mackowiak said. ''He's less well-known and wasn't expected to win his
primary. It's going to take some time to reintroduce himself.''

But he starts with a clean slate, Mr. Mackowiak added, instead of having to
change minds, as Mr. Canseco would have had to after losing the last election.

Another issue is that Mr. Gallego can use his Hispanic heritage in the border
district as an advantage. Republicans have made a concerted effort to attract
Hispanics, who have traditionally voted for Democrats, and convince them that
the Republican Party's positions on abortion and taxes are in step with their
own beliefs. The district is about 69 percent Hispanic, according to the Texas
Legislative Council's 2012 data.

''I am sure he's going to do a number of 'wink, wink, he's not Hispanic'
efforts, but we'll see how that plays out,'' Mr. Mackowiak said, adding that Mr.
Hurd can win those independent voters over with some effort. ''If you get to
meet Will, you see he's an impressive young guy, he's got good experience, he's
very genuine, he wants to listen.''

Mr. Gallego said he does not know how that will play into his strategy, if at
all. But he joked that there was nothing he could do about his ethnicity.

''The fact that I am Latino is not a secret. There's not much I can do about
that,'' he said. ''It is what it is. I think people know that my last name ends
in a vowel. What can I tell you?''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/06/15/us/in-democratic-stronghold-a-republican-fight
s-back.html

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pete Gallego, left, is the Democratic congressman from Texas'
23rd District. Will Hurd, right, a Republican, hopes to defeat him in November.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENNIFER WHITNEY FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE
 BOB DAEMMRICH FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (Op Talk)

                              June 16, 2014 Monday

Rise of the Internet Hate Machine

BYLINE: JAKE FLANAGIN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1018 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Internet has made it easier than ever before for foul-mouthed,
often sexist haters to air their grievances without consequence, writes JAKE
FLANAGIN.


Welcome to the age of Internet hate, when "it's never been easier to send an
anonymous death threat," writes Jack Shafer for Reuters. "As with so many of
life's labors, advanced technology has removed most of the work and hazard from
sending cowardly messages to people to frighten them."

The Internet and social media have drastically altered the conventions of
traditional bullying, threatening and harassment. Phenomena once thought native
to playgrounds and high school locker rooms are now a bug of human interaction
through technology - for children, teenagers and adults alike.

Has the Internet made us more hateful? Or has the Internet simply made it easier
for us to exercise our in-born spite?

"I was so puzzled by people who were telling us that anonymity was the reason
there was so much vile meanness and attacks online," said the Canadian
journalist Paula Todd in a video interview with the National Post. "So I wanted
to dig a little bit deeper, and what I found is that there are people you
wouldn't expect, and some you will, who are motivated more than the majority of
us to go online and to cause damage."

Ms. Todd is the author of "Extreme Mean," which examines "motives and
machinations behind cyber-abuse - tormenting, trolling, harassment, cyber
-bullying, stalking, and sexual extortion - and the toll it is taking on
children, youth, and adults around the world."

Ms. Todd investigated the digital underworld of revenge pornography - sexually
explicit media, typically photographs, posted publicly to Internet forums
without the consent of those pictured, usually with the intent to humiliate the
target. The images and videos are often uploaded by ex-partners or spurned
suitors, though occasionally hackers with no discernible connection to the
victim will be involved. "I found women who lost their jobs, who had been kicked
out of their church groups, who had lost their friends, and who had been so
deeply devastated that they're under psychiatric care," Ms. Todd tells The Post.
"Research is showing that cyberabuse can be much more damaging than traditional
bullying, in part because it's permanent. It's around the clock, and it can be
easily shared and re-shared."

In a cover story for the January 2014 issue of Pacific Standard, Amanda Hess
relayed her own personal encounter with cyberabuse: a Twitter account set up for
the express purpose of issuing threats - like stalking, rape and decapitation -
to the popular Slate staff writer. "I felt disoriented and terrified," she
recalls. "Then embarrassed for being scared, and, finally, pissed." She
continued, "headlessfemalepig was clearly a deranged individual with a bizarre
fixation on me. I picked up my phone and dialed 911."

The police officer who arrived on the scene was not especially impressed by the
threats posed to Ms. Hess. "What is Twitter?" he asked. "Since I first started
writing in 2007," Ms. Hess writes, "It's become just one of the many online
spaces where men come to tell me to get out."

Internet hate and misogyny often go hand in hand, and celebrities, journalists
and politicians seem to attract much of the enmity. The actress Anna Gunn wrote
an Op-Ed for The New York Times after the "vitriolic response" - including
malignant Facebook pages - inspired by her character on the TV show "Breaking
Bad": "I finally realized that most people's hatred of Skyler had little to do
with me and a lot to do with their own perception of women and wives," she
wrote. "Because Skyler didn't conform to a comfortable ideal of the archetypical
female, she had become a kind of Rorschach test for society, a measure of our
attitudes toward gender."

But online misogyny need not always be wielded by men. There are countless
examples of women utilizing the Internet and social media to spread hate. The
singer Rihanna has dispatched a number of P.R. kerfuffles through her active,
and oft-lauded, social media presence. Earlier this year, shemade waves on
Twitter for publicly mocking a 16-year-old fan who had copied an outfit the star
wore to a red-carpet event.

Women victims of Internet hate also aren't limited to progressive ideologies.
Ms. Hess is a celebrated feminist writer with a largely liberal readership, but
conservative women are no less exempt.

In 2012, the conservative firebrand Michelle Malkin tweeted a critique via her
Twitter watchdog blog, Twitchy, of the cover art for the 2012 album "Jesus
Piece" from the hip-hop artist the Game. Her lambasting of the cover for its
ostensible sacrilege and depictions of so-called gang paraphernalia provoked
threats of rape and murder from some of the Game's fans. Viewed out of context,
most of the tweets were indistinguishable from the vitriol lobbed at Ms. Hess.

Writing at Slate, Jim Pagels advises an age-old remedy to Internet hate: Ignore
it, and it will go away. "Just about every week, it seems there's a story about
a celebrity, athlete, or politician receiving death threats from morons on
Twitter," he writes. "The media often treat these frivolous incidents like
they're a fatwa on Salman Rushdie." He is just as persuaded of the essential
harmlessness of these threats as he is of their immutability. "There really
aren't any clear solutions," he writes. "Maybe the solution is to just let the
Internet continue to be the Internet, and people will eventually grow bored of
this 'news.'"

But ignoring the problem hasn't entirely worked for Ms. Hess. Her harasser still
keeps tabs on her, terrifyingly enough, occasionally dropping a line on Twitter
to let her know that "his 'game' is back on."

"It's been four years, but I still carry the case files with me," she writes. "I
record every tweet he sends me in a Word document, forward his emails to a
dedicated account, then print them out to ensure I'll have them ready for police
in analog form if he ever threatens me again (or worse). Whenever I have
business travel to the city where he lives, I cart my old protection order
along, even though the words are beginning to blur after a dozen photocopies.
The stacks of paper are filed neatly in my apartment. My anxieties are harder to
organize."

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             June 19, 2014 Thursday

Tally of Cyber Extortion Attacks on Tech Companies Grows

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 820 words



HIGHLIGHT: A flood of extortion attempts against web start-ups that began
earlier this year appears to be getting worse. Evernote, Feedly, Moz and, this
week, Move, an online real estate service, have been targeted in the last month.



Tech start-ups continue to get hit by extortion attempts from cybercriminals who
aim to shut down their systems until companies pay their ransom.

For several months, the Federal Bureau of Investigation has been investigating a
wave of so-called denial-of-service, or DDoS attacks, against web start-ups. In
each case, attackers knock their victims offline using a flood of traffic and
refuse to stop until victims pay their ransom in Bitcoins.

Among the businesses targeted in the initial wave of attacks were Vimeo, the
video-sharing company; Meetup, a company that connects groups offline; Basecamp,
a project management software company; Bit.ly, the link-shortening service;
Shutterstock, the stock photography agency, and MailChimp, the email marketing
provider. In nearly every case, the amount demanded was typically low, in the
$300 range. And in some cases, one security consultant said, the victims paid
the ransom.

Among the companies targeted in just the last month have been Feedly, a service
that aggregates web content; Evernote, the productivity service; and Moz, which
makes marketing analytics software. On Thursday, Move, a San Jose, Calif.
start-up that provides online real estate services, was added to the list.

At Moz, Anthony Skinner, the company's chief technology officer, said in an
interview that initially the hacker -  or a group of hackers who use the same
email address - asked for $200 to stop attacks on their system. When the company
refused to pay, Mr. Skinner said, the ransom demand increased to $2,000. Moz has
since signed up with services like CloudFlare, a company that helps mitigate
DDoS attacks by spreading traffic among systems around the world, but Mr.
Skinner said the attacker has found new ways to attack their systems.

"If we move one way, they come after us a different way," Mr. Skinner said.
"It's a game of cat-and-mouse at this point."

Mr. Skinner said the attackers (or attacker) have covered their tracks using
anonymity software and flooding companies from thousands of different IP
addresses in the United States. Those addresses are likely to be bots, or
computers infected with malware that allow the hackers to apply them to an
attack.

Moz is working with other affected companies, including Feedly, but said that
because each company has different infrastructure, and because the attack
methods differ, sharing information about the extortion attacks only provides so
much help.

"We're all getting hit differently and so banding together can only do so much,
beyond commiserating with your friends," Mr. Skinner said.

He said the attacks have been frustrating not just for Moz and its employees,
but for the company's customers, who don't understand why their systems are
being impacted.

On Thursday, Move, the online real estate company, was the latest company to
fall victim. The company said the attack, which began Tuesday, was still going
on Thursday and had made realtor.com, the official website of the National
Association of Realtors, and other Move web services inaccessible. In a
statement, Move said its network service providers were trying to resolve its
shutdown and working closely with law enforcement to track down the attackers.

The F.B.I. is looking into the attacks, according to two people close to the
inquiry who would speak only on condition of anonymity because they were not
authorized to speak publicly about a continuing investigation. They said the
agency was operating under the assumption that the attacks were the work of the
same culprit, or group of culprits. Jennifer Shearer, a spokeswoman for the
F.B.I.,  declined to comment.

DDoS attacks in general are on the rise, according to Arbor Networks, a security
firm in Burlington, Mass., after a "hockey stick" growth trajectory. But last
year, the frequency of such attacks jumped eightfold from the previous year, and
the size of the attacks eclipsed previous peaks by over 200 percent, according
to a report by the firm.

And while no numbers have been published on the uptick in extortion attacks,
security firms that mitigate DDoS attacks say that their business is more than
doubling, in part because of the extortion attempts. At CloudFlare, for
instance, Matthew Prince, the company's chief executive, said CloudFlare had
increased revenue 450 percent last year because of greater interest in its
service.

Tech start-ups are a ripe target because they often lack the sophisticated
security architecture of a larger company, and because they depend on
around-the-clock Internet access for their livelihood. That is the reason some
say an alarming number of start-ups have paid the ransom, in hopes it would just
go away.

At Moz, Mr. Skinner said the attacker continues to demand $2,000 to stop the
flood of attacks, but Moz refuses to pay. "This is a sad case of a sad person,"
Mr. Skinner said. "For them it's a big game. For us, it's a huge waste of time."

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 22, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Reinventing Emily Gould

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1918 words


Emily Gould stood posing for a photograph on West 29th Street in front of the
building where she works, wearing a stone-colored cardigan, her hair scraped
back into a messy ponytail, her only concession to vanity a slash of red
lipstick applied with apparent indifference.

Apparent, since Ms. Gould, who is nothing if not self-aware, seemed to be
working a look meant to deflect unwelcome stares. ''Attention,'' she said in an
interview earlier this month, ''is not a commodity I'm interested in.''

Come again? Ms. Gould, 32, had after all made her name soliciting just the kind
of notice she now disdains. On her blog, Emily magazine, she regaled her
readers, scores of young women who, like herself, were lurching toward
adulthood, with saucy observations about her professional and romantic travails
and the minutiae of day-to-day life: her wardrobe dilemmas, her boyfriend's
peccadilloes, even her cat's gnarly dental disorders.

Indeed, a case could be made that Ms. Gould's warts-and-all brand of
self-exposure anticipated a wave of confessional writing that paved the way for
''Girls,'' Lena Dunham's quasi-autobiographical hit on HBO.

So it comes as a jolt to learn that this self-proclaimed doyenne of cyber
oversharing has hit the refresh button, turning her back on the medium that
shaped her career.

Next month Farrar Straus and Giroux will publish ''Friendship,'' Ms. Gould's
often transparently autobiographical novel of two women scrabbling to find love,
but mostly to make ends meet, in the unforgiving climate of New York in the
early 2000s. She wrote the book, she said, ''to invite something new into my
life.''

She has little interest in revisiting her early blog posts, an exercise, she
said, paraphrasing a character in ''Friendship,'' about as compelling as
''examining a box of old fingernail clippings.''

At the peak of her influence more than a half-dozen years ago, Ms. Gould ''was
at the forefront of a kind of movement,'' said Miles Klee, a novelist and
reporter at the DailyDot.com, which covers social media, ''making transparency
into its own art form.''

Among her most visible successors in the genre is Ms. Dunham, a magnet to the
younger sisters of a crowd that once doted on Ms. Gould's every quip and abject
rumination.

Ms. Gould remembered attending a party in Brooklyn that Ms. Dunham had crashed.
Guests were delighted when she ushered them into her place in the same building.
''Her boyfriend was there,'' Ms. Gould said. ''I was scrutinizing her bookshelf.
I assumed people had sent her those books for free.''

The experience sent her into a funk. ''I was jealous,'' she said. ''Every woman
around my age who hopes to create something is jealous of Lena Dunham.''

Like Ms. Dunham, Ms. Gould was in her early 20s when she achieved the sort of
celebrity -- no, make that notoriety -- strivers her age only dream of. When the
website Gawker called, she promptly ditched her position at a publishing house
to apply her sting to American celebrity culture, in particular the bloated
pretensions of the Manhattan media elite. The site had cast itself as an
audacious societal leveler, taking refreshing, certainly titillating, but more
often gratuitous pokes at the privileged and the mighty. Ms. Gould saw herself
as a crusader, an advocate of guerrilla journalism spun out in real time to give
readers a feeling they were in on the action.

In her brief but high-profile tenure as Gawker's editor, she had little sense of
her impact. ''When I started, Gawker was this little gnat,'' she said. ''But in
the year I worked there, it seemed it had become this rhinoceros. I didn't
realize that something I had written offhandedly would become the No. 1 Google
search topic for the day.''

Funny, vicious and nakedly irreverent, her posts were so aggressive at times
that they managed to incense even the customarily affable Jimmy Kimmel. While
sitting in for Larry King on Mr. King's talk show in 2007, he called her out on
the show for irresponsible reporting and flagrant invasions of privacy. ''You
throw rocks at celebrities,'' he scolded, then told her straight-faced: ''I
would hate to see you arriving in hell, and somebody writing a text message and
saying, 'Guess who's here.' ''

Looking back on the episode, the first of a series of public excoriations, Ms.
Gould acknowledged, ''I probably went around systematically rubbing people the
wrong way for the first part of my career.''

Before long she herself become a piñata, subjected to random bashings by readers
who took issue with, among other things, her perceived status-chasing and
shameless self-involvement.

Around that time a friend warned her, ''You're not riding the wave, you're
swimming in the ocean in front of the wave that's about to crash,'' Ms. Gould
said. ''The wave crashed on me.''

She clung all the same to the gadfly role. ''She's been a lightning rod for
controversy as long as I've known her,'' said Bennett Madison, a writer and
friend since middle school. ''Working at Gawker forced her to ask, 'Is this the
person I want to be?' ''

It came to her, Ms. Gould recalled, ''that there's a difference between being
honest and just being scattershot.'' Spreading gossip and maligning public
figures, she said, ''is not useful as a critical stance.'' In 2007, at the end
of a long, desultory post, she told her readers, Yup. I'm quitting.

The next year, she wrote an 8,000 world confessional for The New York Times
Magazine, remarked upon not only for its content but for a cover that showed Ms.
Gould sprawled languidly on an unmade bed, her signature poppy tattoos exposed,
her amber hair fanned out on rumpled sheets.

In the article Ms. Gould described the negative fallout from her television
appearance and the subsequent panic attacks that had sent her, quaking, into
therapy. She tried to contextualize her experience. ''No wonder we're ready to
confess our innermost thoughts to everyone,'' she wrote. ''We're constantly
being shown that the surest route to recognition is via humiliation in front of
a panel of judges.''

Amen. But readers consigned her to type, casting Ms. Gould, who grew up in
suburban Maryland, her mother a court-appointed lawyer, her father a public
relations executive, an as overeducated (she went to Kenyon) and
hyper-privileged city girl. Online, they raced to pillory her.

In the readers' comments section, a woman who said she was a contemporary wrote,
''Please stop embarrassing our generation with mindless prattle.'' Ritnyc of
Manhattan wrote, ''The alluring cover of the magazine indicates that she does
have, despite exceptionally modest writing skills, an excellent complexion.''

Resilient as a Slinky, Ms. Gould came back with a memoir in 2010, ''And the
Heart Says Whatever,'' in which she chronicled her culinary adventures, yoga
classes, up-and-down relationships and jobs she despised. Casting about for a
way to position the book, the publishers suggested touting her as ''the voice of
her generation.'' ''Can't we just say, 'a voice?' '' Ms. Gould remembered
pleading. The words came back to haunt her when, as chance would have it, they
were echoed by Ms. Dunham on ''Girls.''

As for the memoir, for which Ms. Gould received a $200,000 advance, it sold
fewer than 10,000 copies, respectable, to be sure, but anemic by industry
standards. Between soothing sips of camomile tea in early June, Ms. Gould
assessed the damage. She could not have anticipated that her followers would
turn on her, uncorking the geysers of vitriol that had been her stock in trade,
she said.

Mr. Klee recalled the consensus among writers: ''Here's someone to be jealous of
and kind of hate. She's putting herself out there and she scored this killer
book deal.'' He has since revised that view. ''As I got to read more of her, I
found a very sharp, very funny observer,'' he said. ''I appreciate her inside,
smart gloss on whatever is happening at the moment.''

Ms. Gould remains her own most unsparing critic. ''The eye that she turns on the
world she also turns on herself,'' said Mr. Madison.

She seems bent these days on renouncing her membership in the community of
bloggers, whom she characterizes as ''that tiny subset of outliers who are
live-tweeting their mammogram the next day.''

And she is quick to acknowledge her role in feeding the culture of
self-veneration and snark. ''I was a big gossip with a big mouth,'' she said,
''and the Internet enabled me to do that on a really grand scale.''

In the seven years since she left Gawker and wrote about it, ''I've mostly
apologized personally to the people I've offended,'' she said.

''I wish I could say after all that public shaming, at least I have my beautiful
shoes, my beautiful apartment,'' said Ms. Gould, who lives in the sluggishly
gentrifying Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn, in a building next to a bar
called One Last Shag. ''But at that point I didn't have anything; I had less
than anything,'' having earned, as she lamented in an online article earlier
this year, a total of $7,000 in 2011, the year she embarked on her novel.

She has, it would seem, found emotional sustenance in the steady routine, and
reliable income, provided by her job at 29th Street Publishing. The company,
which creates cross-platform content for new magazines and websites, helped her
build Emily Books, which she founded with Ruth Curry, her best friend and a
writer like herself. An e-book venture with some 150 subscribers, Emily Books
resurrects cult favorites, out-of-print works and others by mostly female
authors. The goal, Ms. Gould said, ''is to make sure that the writers we cared
about were not forgotten.''

Ms. Gould, who once prided herself on having dodged the kind of day job that had
her ''shopping the sale rack at Club Monaco for office appropriate outfits,'' as
she once wrote, has adopted a variation of ''dress for success.'' She appeared
at her interview in a conventional blazer and pants, accessorized, subversively,
with raucously striped socks and gray sneakers. That sartorial wink aside, she's
no renegade, she said, adding playfully if somewhat opaquely: ''I've never tried
heroin. And I've had sex with very few women.''

In October she is to marry her longtime boyfriend, Keith Gessen, the author and
critic, and, like Ms. Gould, a mainstay of Brooklyn's young literary set.

He helped her through four years of struggling to forge fictional characters
that resemble Ms. Gould and her friend Ms. Curry only in their barest outlines.
Amy, who at least at the outset functions as Ms. Gould's alter-ego, has yet to
bounce back from the collapse of a career that brought her premature fame. Bev,
a graduate school dropout, finds solace and meaning in an unplanned pregnancy
and the kind of unglamorous retail job that Ms. Gould might once have disdained.

Money, in her fictional universe, is the new sex. ''I was obsessively thinking
about it every day that I was working on the book,'' she said. ''I saw sex
through the lens of money, and marriage though the lens of money. You can buy a
lot of power in your relationship if you're the breadwinner.''

But money and power are less likely to move her these days than the promise of,
as marketers would have it, reimagining her brand. She is working, she said, on
developing a moral compass, creating a persona that is the circumspect,
do-the-right-thing of the Emily of Gawker infamy.

Sure, the past still smarts. ''But I'm not kept up nights with remorse,'' Ms.
Gould said evenly. ''And if anyone is kept up nights for seven years, they might
want to get a better therapist.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/06/22/fashion/reinventing-blogger-emily-gould.html

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gone are the days when Ms. Gould, now a novelist, applied her
sting to American celebrity culture, in particular the Manhattan media elite.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVEN BRAHMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1)
Top,Ms. Gould in her office at 29th Street Publishing. Above, on the cover of
The New York Times Magazine in 2008 that featured her confessional. The writer,
left, with Keith Gessen, the author and critic. They are to marry in October.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVEN BRAHMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 FRANCES DUNCAN) (ST10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 22, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hacker Tactic: Holding Data Hostage

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA.

An investigative reporter for The New York Times.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1111 words


THE perpetual cat-and-mouse game between computer hackers and their targets is
getting nastier. Cybercriminals are getting better at circumventing firewalls
and antivirus programs. More of them are resorting to ransomware, which encrypts
computer data and holds it hostage until a fee is paid. Some hackers plant
virus-loaded ads on legitimate websites, enabling them to remotely wipe a hard
drive clean or cause it to overheat. Meanwhile, companies are being routinely
targeted by attacks sponsored by the governments of Iran and China. Even small
start-ups are suffering from denial-of-service extortion attacks, in which
hackers threaten to disable their websites unless money is paid.

Just days after the F.B.I. and international law enforcement agencies teamed up
earlier this month to kill one ransomware program, CryptoLocker, which had
infected over 300,000 computers, another pernicious program, Cryptowall, popped
up and began spreading rapidly.

In response, more companies are resorting to countermeasures like planting false
information on their own servers to mislead data thieves, patrolling online
forums to watch for stolen information and creating ''honey pot'' servers that
gather information about intruders. Last year, companies also spent roughly $1.3
billion on insurance to help cover expenses associated with data theft.

Some security experts are urging even more aggressive action. ''Companies want
better results than are being delivered by law enforcement,'' said Stewart A.
Baker, former assistant secretary for policy at the Department of Homeland
Security. He questioned whether the National Security Agency, the F.B.I. or the
C.I.A. had enough qualified counterhackers to stake out corporate networks and
also whether those businesses would be comfortable giving the government more
access to their networks.

Mr. Baker maintains that victims of data theft can reasonably argue that they
have a right to follow and retrieve stolen data wherever the thief takes it.
And, he added, federal law on the matter is so ambiguous that prosecuting a
company for trespassing on the domain of a hacker would be difficult and highly
unlikely.

''I do really believe there should be a Second Amendment right in cyber,'' added
Jeffery L. Stutzman, vice president of Red Sky Alliance, referring to the right
to bear arms. His company coordinates intelligence sharing for many of the
world's top corporations. Virtually all of them are weighing how aggressive to
be in combating hackers, he said.

In 2011 Michael Hayden, former director of both the C.I.A. and the N.S.A.,
suggested that the government should consider allowing a ''digital Blackwater''
with paid mercenaries battling cyberattackers on behalf of corporations. But
security experts warn that by taking matters into their own hands companies risk
an escalating cycle of retaliation, lawsuits or Internet traffic jams.

What's more, since cybercriminals typically hijack the systems of unwitting
third parties to launch attacks, it is often hard to pinpoint targets for
retaliation, said Orin S. Kerr, a professor at the George Washington University
Law School. It is ''kind of like a blindfolded partygoer trying to hit a piñata
with a baseball bat,'' he said. ''He might hit the piñata but he might hit Aunt
Sally, who happens to be standing nearby.''

Companies might also trip up law enforcement efforts or find themselves on the
wrong end of a lawsuit if they inadvertently gain access to someone else's
server. And under many foreign laws, self-defense actions by private companies
amount to espionage.

The Justice Department takes the stance that a company is most likely breaking
the law whenever it gains access to another computer network without permission.
At a panel hosted by the American Bar Association, John Lynch, chief of the
computer crime and intellectual property section of the Justice Department's
criminal division, said that usually, when his office determines that companies
have gone outside their server to investigate a perceived attacker, his first
thought is, ''Oh wow -- now I have two crimes.''

There are, however, other ways to fight hackers that are both legal and
effective, said Mr. Stutzman of Red Sky Alliance. His firm, for example,
profiles attackers by keeping their pictures, phones numbers and other personal
data on file. He is also an advocate of software that tags sensitive documents
so that if they are stolen they self-destruct or transmit an alert to the owner.

Most security companies say the main objective should be raising the cost to
hackers. CloudFlare, for instance, has developed a service called Maze, which it
describes as ''a virtual labyrinth of gibberish and gobbledygook'' designed to
divert intruders to bogus data and away from useful information. Other companies
create bottlenecks to route attackers through security checkpoints.

It is fairly common for law firms to have their email read during negotiations
for ventures in China, said Dmitri Alperovitch, a founder of CrowdStrike, a
company that investigates hackers. So if a company knows its lawyers will be
hacked, planting decoys can give them an upper hand, he said.

This month CrowdStrike unmasked a secret cell of cyberthieves linked to the
Chinese Army that had stolen millions of dollars' worth of data from military
contractors and research companies, often by hiding its attack software in
emailed invitations to golfing events.

Samir Kapuria, vice president of Symantec's Cyber Security Group, recounted how
his company helped a major manufacturer create bogus blueprints of a valuable
product with a traceable but harmless flaw and left it hidden in its servers.
When the manufacturer later found the planted blueprint for sale on the black
market, he said, Symantec was able to help trace the leak to its source, fire
the subcontractor and save the manufacturer tens of millions of dollars.

But there can also be unintended consequences when planting false information,
said Dave Dittrich, a security engineer at the University of Washington. He
offered a theoretical example in which a company intentionally inserts flaws
into a faked vehicle design. ''If someone plants false information to be stolen
and used, and this results in the death of any innocent human beings,'' he said,
''there could be a good case made that the entity who planted the fake data is
acting in a negligent and unjustifiable manner.''

In general, Mr. Kapuria of Symantec prefers a philosophical approach toward
thwarting the legions of cybercriminals, describing the fight as ''Cyber Sun Tzu
-- when the enemy is relaxed, make them toil; when full, make them starve; when
settled, make them move.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/06/22/sunday-review/hackers-find-new-ways-to-breach-
computer-security.html

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VIKTOR HACHMANG)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                             June 26, 2014 Thursday

Today in Small Business: 'Seniorpreneurs'

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 488 words



HIGHLIGHT: Maybe teens are not fleeing Facebook. To improve creativity and
productivity, buy an espresso machine.


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.

The Economy

Orders for durable goods dropped in May.

Restaurant spending rose 1.7 percent in the first quarter.

An expected bill would allow private student loan debt to be discharged in
bankruptcy.

Over the last nine quarters, labor compensation has increased 8.8 percent while
corporate profits have fallen 7.2 percent.

Entrepreneurship

Three things you should never tell an entrepreneur about her or his spouse.

The next entrepreneurial wave could be "seniorpreneurs."

Google

At Google's annual I/O conference, the company announced there were a billion
active Android users and that it planned to make Android "even better."

Google also announced that it is opening Gmail to developers, unveiled a TV
service, explained how it will tie Chromebooks and Android closer together and
offered an unlimited storage plan.

Around the Country

Georgia is the top state for businesses, according to CNBC.

Start-Up

This start-up wants to make custom 3-D-printed headphones that will never fall
out.

An Uber-like start-up offers helicopter rides from Manhattan to the Hamptons.

Former YouTube executives are bringing online celebs and fans together at a
start-up, with the idea to give fans a place to interact with and buy things
from their favorites.

Employees

A company chief operating officer explains how buying an espresso machine for
the office can improve creativity and productivity.

Ikea is increasing its minimum hourly pay in the United States, with different
minimums in different markets.

Facebook releases its first diversity report, revealing that its global staff is
only 31 percent female.

Symantec is betting on the next generation of cyber security workers.

Social Media

Teens aren't fleeing Facebook after all, according to a report.

Cash Flow

What you need to know about Friday's $16.7 million Bitcoin auction.

Coinbase teams up with Intuit's QuickBooks to open Bitcoin payments to small
businesses.

This is the history of the receipt.

Marketing

Blue-chip advertiser spending hits a record $109 billion, passing its
pre-recession peak.

Management

The unusual risk to GoPro's initial public offering is its own customers
injuring themselves.

Climate Change

President Obama warned environmental advocates that officials need to respect
legitimate concerns about higher energy prices.

Small businesses across the country are bracing for climate change.

Washington

Nearly two times as many small-business owners cite taxes over health care as
the issue they are most concerned about.

On July 13, thousands of companies currently considered large will be
re-classified small by the Small Business Administration.

Technology

Why one chief information officer is saying no to "BYOD" - bring your own
device.

Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps
clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 30, 2014 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sky Isn't Falling After Scandal, N.S.A. Chief Says

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1285 words


FORT MEADE, Md. -- The newly installed director of the National Security Agency
says that while he has seen some terrorist groups alter their communications to
avoid surveillance techniques revealed by Edward J. Snowden, the damage done
over all by a year of revelations does not lead him to the conclusion that ''the
sky is falling.''

In an hourlong interview Friday in his office here at the heart of the country's
electronic eavesdropping and cyberoperations, Adm. Michael S. Rogers, who has
now run the beleaguered spy agency and the military's Cyber Command for just
short of three months, described the series of steps he was taking to ensure
that no one could download the trove of data that Mr. Snowden gathered -- more
than a million documents.

But he cautioned that there was no perfect protection against a dedicated
insider with access to the agency's networks.

''Am I ever going to sit here and say as the director that with 100 percent
certainty no one can compromise our systems from the inside?'' he asked. ''Nope.
Because I don't believe that in the long run.''

The crucial change, he said, is to ''ensure that the volume'' of data taken by
Mr. Snowden, a former agency contractor, ''can't be stolen again.'' But the
Defense Department, of which the security agency and Cyber Command are a part,
made the same vow in 2010 after an Army private, Chelsea Manning, downloaded
hundreds of thousands of secret State Department and Pentagon files and released
them to WikiLeaks.

Notable in his comments was an absence of alarm about the long-term effects of
the Snowden revelations. Like former Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates, who
urged colleagues in the Obama administration to calm down about the WikiLeaks
revelations in 2010, Admiral Rogers seemed to suggest that, as technology
progressed, the agency would find new ways to compensate for the damage done,
however regrettable the leaks.

He repeated past warnings that the agency had overheard terrorist groups
''specifically referencing data detailed'' by Mr. Snowden's revelations. ''I
have seen groups not only talk about making changes, I have seen them make
changes,'' he said.

But he then added: ''You have not heard me as the director say, 'Oh, my God, the
sky is falling.' I am trying to be very specific and very measured in my
characterizations.''

His tone was in contrast to that of some politicians and intelligence
professionals, including his immediate predecessor, Gen. Keith B. Alexander, who
described in stark terms the risks to American and allied national security from
the revelations, calling it ''the greatest damage to our combined nations'
intelligence systems that we have ever suffered.''

Admiral Rogers discussed his vision of how the United States might use
cyberweapons against adversaries -- a subject of debate inside the
administration that American officials rarely discuss in public -- saying he
could imagine a day when, under strict rules of armed conflict, they were used
selectively but as part of ordinary military operations, like cruise missiles
and drones.

He also acknowledged that the quiet working relationships between the security
agency and the nation's telecommunications and high technology firms had been
sharply changed by the Snowden disclosures -- and might never return to what
they once were in an era when the relationships were enveloped in secrecy.

Telecommunications businesses like AT&T and Verizon, and social media companies,
now insist that ''you are going to have to compel us,'' Admiral Rogers said, to
turn over data so that they can demonstrate to foreign customers that they do
not voluntarily cooperate. And some are far more reluctant to help when asked to
provide information about foreigners who are communicating on their networks
abroad. It is a gray area in the law in which American courts have no
jurisdiction; instead, the agency relied on the cooperation of American-based
companies.

Last week, Verizon lost a longstanding contract to run many of the
telecommunications services for the German government. Germany declared that the
revelations of ''ties revealed between foreign intelligence agencies and firms''
showed that it needed to rely on domestic providers.

Google has announced steps to seal gaps in its system that the security agency
exploited to gain access to the company's databases. Microsoft is challenging in
court the validity of warrants to turn over data that it stores outside the
United States.

''I understand why we are where we are,'' said Admiral Rogers, the first career
cryptologist to run the country's code-breaking and code-making agency, and a
former commander of the Navy's Fleet Cyber Command. ''I don't waste a lot of
time saying, 'Why wouldn't you want to work with us?' ''

Admiral Rogers said the majority of corporations that had long given the agency
its technological edge and global reach were still working with it, though they
had no interest in advertising the fact. He was unapologetic about the agency's
past activities, even as he said he recognized that unlike his predecessors for
the past six decades he was going to have to engage ''in a public dialogue''
about how the agency operated.

When asked about the changes the agency had made to prevent another insider
attack like the one Mr. Snowden executed without detection -- including a
''two-man rule'' that would require two systems operators to enter codes to gain
access to sensitive data, much as two officers must enter codes to launch
nuclear weapons -- he refused to say whether he had embraced one major
recommendation of a presidential commission on the agency's operations.

The commission, which issued a public report in December, said it was surprised
that the agency did not encrypt the vast databases of information it stores on
its computers and in the Internet cloud. Had it encrypted that information, the
files Mr. Snowden downloaded would have been unreadable, unless he also had the
cryptologic key.

In discussing the post-Snowden changes, Admiral Rogers said the security agency
had received instructions to cease its monitoring of a number of world leaders
beyond Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, whose cellphone was monitored in a
decade-long operation that President Obama halted.

''There are some specific targets where we've been instructed, 'Hey, don't
collect against them anymore,' '' he said. He declined to say how many beyond
noting, ''Probably more than half a dozen, but not in the hundreds by any
means.''

Admiral Rogers has taken command of the agency just as its power to collect and
retain ''telephone metadata'' -- the records of numbers dialed and the duration
of calls -- is being stripped from the agency. Mr. Obama defended the program
last summer, after the initial round of revelations. But he had a change of
heart, fueled by his commission's conclusion that it could not find a case in
which the program had definitively halted a potential terrorist attack.

Mr. Obama ultimately decided to cease the government collection of the data,
putting it into the hands of a third party and requiring an individual warrant
from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to obtain the data.

Admiral Rogers indicated that system, so long resisted by the security agency,
was workable. ''I am not going to jump up and down and say, 'I have to have
access to that data in minutes and hours,' '' he said. ''The flip side is that I
don't want to take weeks and months to get to the data.''

The House passed a bill that would keep the data in the hands of
telecommunications businesses; the Senate has yet to act.

''Clearly the intention,'' he said, is to get the security agency ''out of the
data-retention business'' for domestic calling records.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/06/30/us/sky-isnt-falling-after-snowden-nsa-chief-sa
ys.html

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Adm. Michael S. Rogers, seen last month, says it is crucial to
''ensure that the volume'' of data stolen before ''can't be stolen again.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A13)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 4, 2014 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Anthony Makes Rounds, Knicks Hope to Be Final Stop

BYLINE: By SCOTT CACCIOLA

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 800 words


When Phil Jackson spoke before the N.B.A. draft last week, he was asked whether
he hoped to have a second meeting with Carmelo Anthony before Anthony decided on
his future. Jackson, the Knicks' president, offered one of his wry smiles. His
response was something of a riddle.

''No,'' he said. ''First or last, probably the best of all those equations,
right?''

It was vintage Jackson, and it took some unpacking. The gist was that he seemed
satisfied with where things stood with Anthony, who was preparing to embark on a
four-city, four-team tour as he weighed his options in free agency. On Thursday,
Anthony met with the final of those four suitors, the Los Angeles Lakers, before
he reconnected with a new friend: Jackson.

As it turned out, Jackson not only wanted to be the first to make his pitch to
Anthony. He also wanted to be the last, although there were multiple reports
that the Lakers' Kobe Bryant was expected to meet with Anthony after Anthony's
get-together with Jackson. There were many meetings in Los Angeles on Thursday,
and many of them involved Anthony.

It remained unclear when Anthony would make a decision, although the Knicks
still have the advantage of potentially offering him the most lucrative
contract: $129 million over five seasons. Jackson has said that he would prefer
for Anthony to accept less money for the sake of giving the team financial
flexibility, but there are only so many players on the planet with Anthony's
offensive skills, and he could be a cornerstone for the team for years.

While awaiting Anthony's decision, the Knicks on Thursday made at least one
addition to their team. Kurt Rambis, a former head coach of the Lakers who also
worked under Jackson as an assistant, agreed to join Coach Derek Fisher's staff
as associate head coach, according to a person briefed on the negotiations. The
person requested anonymity because the team had not yet made a formal
announcement. ESPN was the first to report that Rambis was joining the Knicks'
coaching staff.

Rambis, 56, became the first member of Fisher's staff and is expected to be with
the team next week in Las Vegas for summer league play. Rambis, who won four
championships as a player with the Lakers, has a strong knowledge of the
triangle offense and will provide some much-needed coaching experience. Fisher,
who recently retired as a player, has never been a coach.

The Knicks also announced their roster for the summer league, which is scheduled
to begin July 11. The roster includes several players who spent time with the
team last season, including Tim Hardaway Jr., Jeremy Tyler and Cole Aldrich, who
is a free agent and whose inclusion came as something of a surprise. In
addition, Cleanthony Early and Thanasis Antetokounmpo, both of whom were drafted
by the Knicks last week, are expected to be with the team.

As Anthony concluded his whirlwind recruiting tour, several players agreed to
new deals with their old teams, among them the Toronto Raptors' Kyle Lowry and
the Dallas Mavericks' Dirk Nowitzki. Nowitzki even posted a message on Twitter:
''MFFL,'' short for Mavs Fan For Life.

More uncertain was the status of the Miami Heat's so-called Big Three -- LeBron
James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh, all of whom are free agents. Many teams are
awaiting their decisions before they make more moves, and Anthony's weeklong
approach is having a similar cooling effect. Teams have only so much money to
spend, and if Plan A entails handing a cartoon-size check to James or Anthony,
Plan B must wait.

Anthony met with the Chicago Bulls on Tuesday before traveling to Texas on
Wednesday for back-to-back visits with the Houston Rockets and the Mavericks.
The meetings seemed to get progressively shorter. After Anthony spent most of
the day with the Bulls, his face-to-face meeting with Mark Cuban, the Mavericks'
owner, lasted only about two hours, according to various reports.

''What I can tell you is that we made this purely a business meeting,'' Cuban
said in a statement on his Cyber Dust app. ''No tours. No banners. All
basketball and business.''

Anthony has a home in Los Angeles and is a close friend of Bryant's. The two
have played together on Olympic teams, and the Lakers have ample space under the
salary cap. But like the Knicks, the Lakers are rebuilding, and the pairing of
two offense-minded players like Bryant and Anthony would probably not solve
their problems.

The day also featured an odd bit of symmetry. Jackson, who coached the Lakers to
five titles, knows Bryant well and thinks highly of him. And while Jackson has
expressed confidence about the future of the Knicks with or without Anthony, he
would like to keep him. If anybody has the power to prevent that from happening,
it might be Bryant.

''Kobe's a persuasive guy,'' Jackson said last week, ''no doubt about it.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/04/sports/basketball/carmelo-anthony-new-york-kni
cks.html

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kurt Rambis, right, was a Lakers assistant under Phil Jackson
and will join the Knicks' staff. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF LEWIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
(B15)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 4, 2014 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Daimler Demonstrates a Self-Driving Truck

BYLINE: By MELISSA EDDY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 842 words


MAGDEBURG, Germany -- For Daimler, the truck driver of the future looks
something like this: He is seated in the cab of a semi, eyes on a tablet and
hands resting in his lap.

Daimler demonstrated its vision Thursday along a stretch of the A14 autobahn
near Magdeburg in eastern Germany, the culmination of years of innovation. It
says the vehicle -- called the Mercedes-Benz Future Truck 2025, a nod to the
year the carmaker hopes it will be introduced -- is capable of responding to
traffic while driving completely autonomously down a freeway at speeds of up to
85 kilometers per hour, or 52 miles per hour.

''The Future Truck 2025 leads to more efficiency, and better safety and
connectivity,'' said Wolfgang Bernhard, the head of Daimler Trucks. ''This in
turn results in a more sustainable transport system to the benefit of the
economy, society and consumers.''

Only one prototype of Future Truck 2025 exists, and the company declined to
reveal for how much the vehicle would sell. Regulatory and legal challenges also
remain before the truck would be allowed to take to the road.

No figures are available for commercial vehicles, but analysts with IHS
Automotive predicted in a research note that adding self-driving technology to
personal cars, which more manufacturers are exploring, would increase the cost
of vehicles by about $10,000 by 2020.

Along an eight-lane stretch of the autobahn, the large silver truck of the
future fell into line with 20 other vehicles used to simulate realistic driving
conditions. The truck responded to slowing cars in its lane by adjusting its
speed accordingly and registered an approaching emergency vehicle in time to
slide effortlessly into the far-right lane, allowing the emergency vehicle to
pass on the left.

Unlike the pod-shape, two-seat driverless vehicle introduced recently by Google,
the Daimler truck retains a steering wheel as a safety measure. This allows a
driver to intervene for critical maneuvers, like overtaking a slower-moving
vehicle in the left lane, much in the same way as the pilot of an airliner can
intervene to guide an aircraft set on autopilot. The Google car is focused on
urban transport and specializes in traveling short distances on demand for
individual passengers.

Volvo, the Swedish manufacturer, has been developing driverless vehicles as part
of the European Union's Safe Road Trains for the Environment program, which
envisions creating a caravan of vehicles that follow a leader in an effort to
reduce wind-drag and fuel costs. Only the vehicles following the leader, which
is in the hands of a driver, are able to function autonomously.

Future Truck 2025 builds on technology Daimler has already used in its sedans.
Last year, Daimler introduced the Mercedes-Benz 2014 S-Class, which retains a
human behind a steering wheel but shares many of the same sensor systems and
data communication platforms with the Future Truck, the company said.

But the experience of guiding a self-driving truck is far less stressful than
the vigilance required from a human to respond to traffic conditions. This means
that drivers could have enough free time to speak with their families or
employers, take care of paperwork or make travel plans like booking a slot at a
rest stop or making arrangements for future load.

''It's strange at first,'' said Hans Luft, who sat in the truck's cab during the
demonstration on Thursday. He waved his hands to show observers that he did not
need them on the wheel, tapping at his tablet while taking advantage of the
45-degree swivel of his driver's seat. ''But you quickly learn to trust it and
then it's great.''

The driver still needs to start the vehicle and enter the flow of traffic. But
once the Future Truck reaches 80 k.p.h., or 50 m.p.h., a prompt in the system
asks the driver to activate what is called the Highway Pilot, which effectively
takes over.

Equipped with sensors in the front that have ranges of 70 to 250 meters, or 77
to 273 yards, and cameras capable of capturing images in more than one
direction, the Future Truck can identify single- and double-lane roads,
pedestrians and objects -- moving or stationary -- and respond to them.

Analysts say there remain hurdles for self-driving vehicles, like liability and
cyber security issues, along with data quality and privacy.

''The deployment of autonomous vehicles today is less about technological
capabilities and more about the ability of stakeholders to handle the various
commercial and governance complexities associated with having such vehicles on
the road,'' said Ernst and Young in a research note.

At this point, the technology requires clear and consistent road markings that
can be easily detected by the sensors. And laws in Europe requiring drivers to
keep their eyes on the road would have to be changed. Regulations governing
international truck travel and the use of data collected by the truck's systems
have to be adapted.

Manufacturers will also have to ensure that their vehicles will be able to
communicate with infrastructure and other vehicles across borders.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/04/business/daimler-demonstrates-a-self-driving-t
ruck.html

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 5, 2014 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Daimler Demonstrates a Self-Driving Truck

BYLINE: By MELISSA EDDY

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 842 words


MAGDEBURG, Germany -- For Daimler, the truck driver of the future looks
something like this: He is seated in the cab of a semi, eyes on a tablet and
hands resting in his lap.

Daimler demonstrated its vision Thursday along a stretch of the A14 autobahn
near Magdeburg in eastern Germany, the culmination of years of innovation. It
says the vehicle -- called the Mercedes-Benz Future Truck 2025, a nod to the
year the carmaker hopes it will be introduced -- is capable of responding to
traffic while driving completely autonomously down a freeway at speeds of up to
85 kilometers per hour, or 52 miles per hour.

''The Future Truck 2025 leads to more efficiency, and better safety and
connectivity,'' said Wolfgang Bernhard, the head of Daimler Trucks. ''This in
turn results in a more sustainable transport system to the benefit of the
economy, society and consumers.''

Only one prototype of Future Truck 2025 exists, and the company declined to
reveal for how much the vehicle would sell. Regulatory and legal challenges also
remain before the truck would be allowed to take to the road.

No figures are available for commercial vehicles, but analysts with IHS
Automotive predicted in a research note that adding self-driving technology to
personal cars, which more manufacturers are exploring, would increase the cost
of vehicles by about $10,000 by 2020.

Along an eight-lane stretch of the autobahn, the large silver truck of the
future fell into line with 20 other vehicles used to simulate realistic driving
conditions. The truck responded to slowing cars in its lane by adjusting its
speed accordingly and registered an approaching emergency vehicle in time to
slide effortlessly into the far-right lane, allowing the emergency vehicle to
pass on the left.

Unlike the pod-shape, two-seat driverless vehicle introduced recently by Google,
the Daimler truck retains a steering wheel as a safety measure. This allows a
driver to intervene for critical maneuvers, like overtaking a slower-moving
vehicle in the left lane, much in the same way as the pilot of an airliner can
intervene to guide an aircraft set on autopilot. The Google car is focused on
urban transport and specializes in traveling short distances on demand for
individual passengers.

Volvo, the Swedish manufacturer, has been developing driverless vehicles as part
of the European Union's Safe Road Trains for the Environment program, which
envisions creating a caravan of vehicles that follow a leader in an effort to
reduce wind-drag and fuel costs. Only the vehicles following the leader, which
is in the hands of a driver, are able to function autonomously.

Future Truck 2025 builds on technology Daimler has already used in its sedans.
Last year, Daimler introduced the Mercedes-Benz 2014 S-Class, which retains a
human behind a steering wheel but shares many of the same sensor systems and
data communication platforms with the Future Truck, the company said.

But the experience of guiding a self-driving truck is far less stressful than
the vigilance required from a human to respond to traffic conditions. This means
that drivers could have enough free time to speak with their families or
employers, take care of paperwork or make travel plans like booking a slot at a
rest stop or making arrangements for future load.

''It's strange at first,'' said Hans Luft, who sat in the truck's cab during the
demonstration on Thursday. He waved his hands to show observers that he did not
need them on the wheel, tapping at his tablet while taking advantage of the
45-degree swivel of his driver's seat. ''But you quickly learn to trust it and
then it's great.''

The driver still needs to start the vehicle and enter the flow of traffic. But
once the Future Truck reaches 80 k.p.h., or 50 m.p.h., a prompt in the system
asks the driver to activate what is called the Highway Pilot, which effectively
takes over.

Equipped with sensors in the front that have ranges of 70 to 250 meters, or 77
to 273 yards, and cameras capable of capturing images in more than one
direction, the Future Truck can identify single- and double-lane roads,
pedestrians and objects -- moving or stationary -- and respond to them.

Analysts say there remain hurdles for self-driving vehicles, like liability and
cyber security issues, along with data quality and privacy.

''The deployment of autonomous vehicles today is less about technological
capabilities and more about the ability of stakeholders to handle the various
commercial and governance complexities associated with having such vehicles on
the road,'' said Ernst and Young in a research note.

At this point, the technology requires clear and consistent road markings that
can be easily detected by the sensors. And laws in Europe requiring drivers to
keep their eyes on the road would have to be changed. Regulations governing
international truck travel and the use of data collected by the truck's systems
have to be adapted.

Manufacturers will also have to ensure that their vehicles will be able to
communicate with infrastructure and other vehicles across borders.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/04/business/daimler-demonstrates-a-self-driving-t
ruck.html

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Daimler's Future Truck 2025 on the A14 autobahn passing a video
screen showing the driver. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GORDON WELTERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                              July 7, 2014 Monday

Today in Small Business: 'Factory Man'

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 394 words



HIGHLIGHT: How to get people to reply to your emails. The value of cyber
insurance. And seven things you do not want to hear about small-business tax
deductions.


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.

The Economy

Privately held construction companies are increasing sales at an annual rate of
13 percent, marking a second year of double-digit growth.

Management

Here's how a deli turned into a community of nine businesses with 650 employees
and $50 million in combined sales.

Here is how three entrepreneurs are making their products in the United States.

And "Factory Man" tells the story of a furniture maker who battled a Chinese
industry, stayed local and helped save an American town.

Government Contracts

The experiences of two companies that work on the overhaul of nuclear-powered
aircraft carriers illustrate the ups and downs of being a small contractor.

Advertising

Here's how Twitter has attracted online ads and turned up the revenue.

This is not a difficult daughter, just a great ad.

Entrepreneurship

The 2014 Small Business Book Awards are announced.

A college dropout has created New York City's "most exclusive" credit card.

A program in Kansas matches retiring business owners with young entrepreneurs.

Online

Here's how to get people to reply to your emails.

As gourmet bloggers build more sophisticated sites, more and more eaters (and
investors) are taking notice.

A North Carolina business owner has no regrets about closing her store and
taking her business online.

The next big thing for businesses is cyber insurance.

Around the Country

A Michigan couple designs an eco-friendly alternative to wrapping paper.

The fight tosave a general store in the Everglades.

Around the World

According to the Good Country Index, Ireland is the nation that does the most
good for the world, out of 125 nations analyzed.

A Finnish couple narrowly wins the 19th World Wife Carrying Championships.

A service in England will rent you a friend if you need one.

Security is tightened for some flights coming into the United States.

Taxes

You probably don't want to hear these seven things about small-business
deductions.

Cash Flow

A capital manager says the relevant metric for Amazon (or any other company)
when measuring profitability is operating cash flow.

Technology

How IBM is using big data to address Beijing's pollution crisis.

Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps
clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                              July 7, 2014 Monday

Security Firm Described Simulation as Real Hack

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 481 words



HIGHLIGHT: BAE Systems Applied Intelligence retracts claims it helped thwart a
sophisticated cyberattack at a hedge fund. The attack was not an attack at all.
It was a simulation.


BAE Systems Applied Intelligence, a defense, aerospace and security company,
recently noted in a report that one of its clients at an unnamed hedge fund lost
millions of dollars because of  a cyberattack. But the incident was, in fact, a
simulation run by the security firm itself.

In a June 19 television interview, Paul Henninger, the global product manager
for BAE Systems Applied Intelligence told CNBC that his firm had identified and
thwarted a cyber attack on a hedge fund in 2013 that took months for the firm to
notice and had eventually cost the fund millions of dollars.

"This particular attack happened at the end of 2013," Mr. Henninger said in his
CNBC interview. "It took a couple of months before the firm itself realized that
something was wrong. And then it took about a few weeks for the investigation to
get to the point where we made the connection between the network anomalies and
the trading anomalies. So the actual resolution of the attack was fairly rapid."

Mr. Henninger spoke specifically about the details of the breach and its
aftermath. "This was not something that was a minor issue for them, this was
something that was getting reviewed at the board level at this hedge fund
precisely because it was having a material impact on the performance across the
portfolio."

Mr. Henninger never named the fund in question, but that day BAE's stock traded
up 1.6 percent that day, with higher-than-average trading volume.

Three weeks later, BAE Systems admitted its report was unfounded. The attack was
not an attack after all, but a simulation. "Although the example was a plausible
scenario, we believe that it does not relate to a specific company client," BAE
Systems said in an emailed statement. "We sincerely apologize for this
inaccuracy. We are taking the necessary action to ensure this type of error does
not occur again."

Articulate Communications, BAE Systems' public relations firm that pitched the
original interview deferred questions to BAE Systems. Jena Murphy, BAE Systems'
spokeswoman in the United States also deferred questions to her manager in the
United Kingdom, who did not return requests for additional comment on Monday.
Mr. Henninger, the global product manager who was interviewed by CNBC, could not
be reached for comment.

The New York Times Bits blog wrote about a recent trend of cyber criminals
zeroing in on hedge funds and brokerage firms, which security experts say has
been happening for the last two years, and cited the CNBC report, but could not
verify its accuracy.

BAE Systems is a defense contractor based in the United Kingdom, with operations
in the United States, Saudi Arabia and Australia. This year, the company has
been aggressively marketing its cyber intelligence services.

In March, the company pitched a report about a cyber weapon, dubbed Snake, that
had apparently been used by Russia against targets in the Ukraine.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 9, 2014 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Zalman Schachter-Shalomi, Jewish Pioneer, Dies at 89

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1124 words


Rabbi Zalman Schachter-Shalomi, who was considered the spiritual father of the
Jewish Renewal movement -- an influential camp of religious pioneers who
reintroduced to synagogue services ancient Judaic traditions of mysticism and
meditation, gender equality and ecstatic prayer -- died on Thursday at his home
in Boulder, Colo. He was 89.

His death was announced by Aleph, an umbrella organization that represents about
40 Jewish Renewal congregations around the world, most of them in North America.

Rabbi Schachter-Shalomi's strain of Judaism had its roots in Chabad-Lubavitch, a
branch of Hasidism that itself began as a revival movement in 18th-century
Russia, drawing ideas from mystical Judaic texts like the kabbalah. But he
traced the spark for his renewal movement to the intellectual and spiritual
ferment he encountered on American college campuses in the 1960s.

As an ordained rabbi of the Lubavitch movement, which sends emissaries around
the world to keep the Jewish faith alive, he was dispatched to meet with
secularized Jewish students throughout the Northeast. Along the way, he
befriended fellow spiritual seekers like the psychedelic guru Timothy Leary, the
Roman Catholic mystic Thomas Merton and Ram Dass (born Richard Alpert), an
educator and proponent of hallucinogens and Hinduism.

His exposure to Eastern religion, medieval Christian mysticism and LSD -- he had
the first of a handful of hallucinogenic experiences in 1962, under Leary's
tutelage -- helped him formulate some of the innovations he brought to
contemporary Jewish practice.

From his LSD experience in particular he concluded that ''what I'd experienced
in prayer and meditation before -- the oneness and connection with God -- was
true, but it wasn't just Jewish,'' he told the writer Sara Davidson, author of
''The December Project: An Extraordinary Rabbi and a Skeptical Seeker Confront
Life's Greatest Mystery,'' a book, published this year, about her conversations
with Rabbi Schachter-Shalomi on aging and mortality.

''I realized that all forms of religion are masks that the divine wears to
communicate with us,'' Ms. Davidson quoted him as saying. ''Behind all religions
there's a reality, and this reality wears whatever clothes it needs to speak to
a particular people.''

The Chabad-Lubavitch movement began distancing itself from Rabbi
Schachter-Shalomi later in the 1960s, when he publicly praised what he called
''the sacramental value of lysergic acid'' -- the basic ingredient of LSD -- in
a question-and-answer session after a lecture.

By then he was introducing college audiences and members of a congregation he
led in Somerville, Mass., to Judaism's spiritual traditions of meditation,
mysticism and devekut, a form of ecstatic prayer that incorporates singing,
dancing and storytelling. He began translating Hasidic mystical texts into
English.

At the same time he formed a separate movement, P'nai Or (Faces of Light), which
helped revive interest in the kabbalah among Jews and non-Jews alike. Accused of
promoting a fad rather than a faith, he described his purpose as twofold: to
enliven rituals that many young American Jews found stultifying, and to help
restore what he considered Judaism's lost legacy of ecstatic spirituality.
Underlying both goals was a conviction that Jewishness had to evolve.

''It can't be the same Judaism as it was before,'' he said in a videotaped
interview in 2010 with the Jewish Telegraphic Agency. ''It has to come to terms
with the emerging times.''

His services took a less formulaic approach, offering a deeper spiritual
experience to congregants while demanding a greater commitment to social justice
and environmental activism. Some of his teachings and methods have been adopted
to a greater or lesser degree by Reconstructionist, Reform and Conservative
congregations.

Rabbi Schachter-Shalomi became known for his ecumenical dialogue with Buddhists.
In 1990, he was among a group of Jewish leaders invited to meet with the Dalai
Lama in Dharamsala, India. Living in exile since 1959, the Dalai Lama sought
their advice on how to keep his religious tradition alive in the Tibetan
diaspora.

His outreach to women was also groundbreaking. Citing a word that appears in
early Jewish texts, ''Shekhinah,'' which is said to signify the feminine element
in God's presence, Rabbi Schachter-Shalomi advocated equality for men and women
in all aspects of Jewish services. And he was among the first leaders of any
Jewish denomination to ordain women as rabbis and to advocate full participation
by gay and lesbian congregants. In 1993, his P'nai Or movement merged with a
progressive Jewish political and environmental action group, the Shalom Center,
founded by Rabbi Arthur Waskow, to form Aleph, the Alliance for Jewish Renewal,
based in Philadelphia. Its seminary has ordained 80 rabbis since 1993.

Meshullam Zalman Schachter was born on Aug. 17, 1924, to Shlomo and Hayyah
Gittel Schachter in Zholkiew, a city that was then in Poland and is now part of
Ukraine. He was raised in Vienna, where his father, a member of the Hasidic
sect, was immersed in both Orthodox Judaism and the intellectual and political
life of the city. With the rise of the Nazis, the family moved repeatedly -- to
Belgium, France, North Africa and the Caribbean -- before landing in New York
City in 1941.

In 1956, Rabbi Schachter-Shalomi received a master's degree in the psychology of
religion from Boston University while serving as a congregational rabbi in New
Bedford, Mass. After his estrangement from the Lubavitchers, he received a Ph.D.
in theology from Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, a Reform
institution in Manhattan.

From 1975 to 1995 he was a professor of Jewish mysticism and the psychology of
religion at Temple University in Philadelphia. He later joined Naropa
University, a Buddhist institution, in Boulder, where he received an appointment
to the World Wisdom Chair, a lecturer position.

He is survived by his wife, Eve Ilsen. Married four times, he is also survived
by 11 children.

The author Rodger Kamenetz, whose 1994 book, ''The Jew in the Lotus,''
chronicled the rabbis' meeting with the Dalai Lama, said Rabbi Schachter-Shalomi
was always pained by his estrangement from the Chabad-Lubavitch movement. And,
he added, he was never comfortable with the nicknames that both Jewish and
secular news media gave him: the hippie rabbi, the cyber rabbi (for his
technological savvy), the gadfly rabbi.

Mr. Kamenetz said the rabbi was philosophically averse to labels and the blanket
prejudices they stood for. ''He was a guy who saw each person as a being unto
itself, who treated every human being as if he or she had the potential to be
holy,'' he said. ''He was incapable of an impersonal thought.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/09/us/zalman-schachter-shalomi-jewish-pioneer-die
s-at-89.html

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rabbi Zalman Schachter-Shalomi, left, and Ram Dass in 2008.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOAN HALIFAX/UPAYA ZEN CENTER)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 11, 2014 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kerry Assures China That the U.S. Can Have Many Allies in Asia

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Rick Gladstone contributed reporting from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 980 words


BEIJING -- Seeking to put the best face on a difficult relationship with
Beijing, Secretary of State John Kerry said Thursday that the United States and
China could find ways to manage their differences and had more in common than
not.

Neither side wanted to fall into the ''trap of zero sum competition,'' Mr. Kerry
said at the conclusion of an annual strategic and economic dialogue between top
officials of the two countries.

The array of topics with some areas of agreement -- climate change, Iran, North
Korea and Afghanistan -- attested to the viability of the relationship, he said.

Still, Mr. Kerry used fairly blunt language in an effort to persuade President
Xi Jinping that the United States did not intend its 60-year system of alliances
in Asia to encircle and contain China.

''We mean what we say when we emphasize that there's no U.S. strategy to try to
push back against or be in conflict with China,'' he said, as Mr. Xi sat beside
him during a farewell session at the Great Hall of the People.

Mr. Kerry was indirectly replying to charges by Chinese officials that President
Obama had reinvigorated America's network of alliances in Asia with the idea of
containing China and its fast modernizing military. In response, Mr. Xi has
initiated a campaign that calls for a new security architecture of Asia for the
Asians.

New accusations that Chinese hackers had attacked highly sensitive American
material were brusquely dismissed by China, even as the American delegation,
headed by Mr. Kerry and Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, tried to press
cyberespionage as an important issue at the conference.

The Foreign Ministry dismissed assertions in an article in The New York Times
that Chinese hackers had infiltrated United States government computer systems
that house personal information of federal employees.

A Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman said the article was part of what he called
an irresponsible anti-China smear campaign.

The article, first published Wednesday on the newspaper's website, said the
hackers had gained access to some of the databases of the Office of Personnel
Management before authorities in the United States detected the breach and
thwarted further access. It remained unclear what kind of information, if any,
was compromised in the attack, which was said to have happened in March.

Asked about the article at a regular Foreign Ministry press briefing, a
spokesman, Hong Lei, repeated China's longstanding position that it opposes
cyberhacking.

''This is what we say and what we have been doing,'' he said. ''Recently, some
American media and Internet security firms keep playing the card of China
Internet Threat and smear China's image. They cannot produce tenable evidence.
Such reports and comments are irresponsible and are not worth refuting.''

Asked about the article at a closing news conference, Mr. Kerry said that he and
Mr. Lew had been unaware of the attack described in the article and did not
raise it with Chinese officials, although the broader subject of cybersecurity
was discussed.

''We were notified about this alleged incident minutes before coming out here,''
Mr. Kerry said.

He said the article was about attempted ''intrusions'' that were still being
investigated and it did not appear that sensitive material had been compromised.

A senior American official who participated in sessions with the Chinese on
Thursday said the case of the hacking into the Office of Personnel Management
was not raised by either side. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity
in order to talk about a delicate matter.

The Chinese, angered by the indictment by the Justice Department in May of five
members of the People's Liberation Army on charges of cyberespionage, refused a
request at the dialogue by the Americans to restart a joint cyber working group.

China suspended the work of the group that brought together American and Chinese
negotiators to discuss cyber issues and has complained that National Security
Agency documents made public by Edward J. Snowden showed the United States had
used cyberespionage to gain economic advantage.

Mr. Xi, who invited the American and Chinese delegations to meet him Thursday
afternoon at a session that was partly open to reporters, called on the two
countries to work on building a ''new model of major country relationship,'' a
phrase he frequently uses to imply an equal status between the United States and
China.

It is an expression that the Obama administration has been reluctant to endorse
for fear that it would confer legitimacy to China's various territorial claims,
including in the East China Sea and South China Sea.

The Obama administration sent senior officials to the dialogue, including Janet
L. Yellen, chairwoman of the Federal Reserve; Michael Froman, the United States
trade representative; Ernest Moniz, secretary of energy; Penny Pritzker,
secretary of commerce, and John D. Podesta, counselor to President Obama, who
specializes in climate change.

The Americans appeared pleased about what they called serious discussions on how
to reduce carbon emissions. The presence of Mr. Podesta, who the Chinese know is
close to Mr. Obama and is committed to climate change policies, added weight,
they said.

A joint working group on climate change announced that both countries would
develop new greenhouse gas emissions and fuel economy standards.

''This effort has to be mutual and has to be accompanied by commitments which
are defined by the actions we will actually take,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''It's not
about one country making a demand of the other.''

Even so, China's chief climate official, Xie Zhenhua, said China, which still
considers itself a developing country, should not be subject to the same rules
for greenhouse gas emissions as the United States, suggesting that Beijing will
oppose attempts to impose them at next year's world climate conference in Paris.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/11/world/asia/china-kerry-cyberspying.html

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State John Kerry, in Beijing on Thursday, said
there was no United States strategy to be in conflict with China. (POOL PHOTO BY
GREG BAKER)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 12, 2014 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chinese Businessman Is Charged in Plot to Steal U.S. Military Data

BYLINE: By MATT APUZZO

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 664 words


WASHINGTON -- A Chinese businessman in Canada hacked into Boeing's computers and
stole information about United States military aircraft and weapons, the Justice
Department said on Friday, describing a corporate espionage case that is unusual
for the huge amount of data involved.

The businessman, Su Bin, spent years taking data from Boeing, the Federal Bureau
of Investigation said in court documents, and working with two unidentified
contacts in China sought to sell the information to companies there.

There is no indication that the Chinese government orchestrated the attacks, or
that anyone breached classified systems or stole classified information. But the
assault on one of the nation's most sophisticated military contractors is a
reminder that even seemingly safe computer systems are vulnerable.

In March, Chinese hackers broke into computers that stored the personal
information of all United States government employees. In May, the Justice
Department accused five Chinese officials with hacking into Westinghouse
Electric, United States Steel and other companies.

Mr. Bin owned a Chinese aviation company called Lode Tech that had offices in
Canada, where Mr. Bin lived. He was arrested there on June 28, the F.B.I. said,
and is expected in court there later this month for a bail hearing.

The Justice Department is seeking his extradition to the United States. He is
charged with unauthorized computer access.

''We remain deeply concerned about cyber-enabled theft of sensitive information
and we have repeatedly made it clear that the United States will continue using
all the tools our government possesses to strengthen cybersecurity and confront
cybercrime,'' Marc Raimondi, a Justice Department spokesman, said.

Court documents do not say how the hackers breached Boeing's computers. But Noel
A. Neeman, the F.B.I. agent who wrote the document, describes a general strategy
that will be familiar to anyone whose email or social media accounts have been
compromised: Hackers send an email with a link to a malicious piece of code.
Clicking on that link gives hackers access to computer systems.

While court documents quote from emails describing elaborate hacking schemes and
successful efforts to obtain aircraft schematics, Mr. Neeman writes that those
accounts ''could have been exaggerated.'' The hackers' description of Boeing's
computer network is not accurate and the confidential design information they
claim to have seized was stored across multiple servers, including two on Air
Force bases, Mr. Neeman writes.

A Boeing spokeswoman said the company was cooperating with the investigation.

Boeing was first breached in January 2010, and according to emails obtained by
the F.B.I., more than 65 gigabytes of data was stolen over the next two years.
The primary focus was Boeing's C-17 military cargo plane. The documents also
indicate that the three men stole a comparatively small amount of information
related to Lockheed Martin's F-22 and F-35 jets. It is not clear from the
documents how that breach occurred.

Boeing will cease production of the C-17 next year after two decades building
the planes.

The Chinese government is developing its own cargo plane, which is similar in
some respects to the C-17.

The court documents describe efforts to sell the seized information in China,
including to state-owned companies, but it does not say whether the hackers
succeeded. No defense lawyer is named in the court documents, which were filed
in Los Angeles.

Computer breaches are a major source of friction between the United States and
China. The United States says it hacks computers only to gain national security
information, while China uses it to gain an economic advantage.

But evidence revealed by Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency
contractor, shows the N.S.A. went deep into the computer systems of Huawei, a
major maker of computer network equipment, and ran many programs to intercept
the conversations of Chinese leaders and the military.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/12/business/chinese-businessman-is-charged-in-plo
t-to-steal-us-military-data.html

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 13, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

False Starts Before Cable's Golden Age

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1320 words


In the golden age of the high-class cable drama, it's easy to forget that no
cable channel started its life with such fare. HBO and Showtime? Movies. AMC?
Old movies. USA? Sports. ABC Family? Pat Robertson.

But over the years, these channels, and many others that began with just
baseball games, infomercials, talk shows or network reruns, have found the new
religion of original scripted dramas and comedies. It's a trend that shows no
signs of stopping. On Wednesday, WE begins its first scripted series, ''The
Divide,'' a legal drama. Bravo, once an arts and film channel and more recently
home of the ''Housewives'' franchise, is in production on its first scripted
series, Marti Noxon's ''Girlfriends' Guide to Divorce.''

With shows like ''Breaking Bad,'' ''Game of Thrones,'' ''Masters of Sex'' and
''Louie'' now defining excellence in prime time, let's take a look at back at
where some of today's top cable channels got their start in the scripted-series
business. It wasn't always Emmy nominations and Top 10 lists. (A few of these
shows, including ''Faerie Tale Theatre'' and ''Hey Dude,'' are available from
major streaming-video services. Episodes of nearly all of them can be found on
YouTube.)

Showtime, 'Faerie Tale Theatre' (1982-87)

Long before ''Masters of Sex'' (or ''Gigolos''), the actress Shelley Duvall,
fresh off ''The Shining,'' hosted, produced and occasionally starred in this
great-looking, ambitious series of fairy-tale adaptations. The first episode
featured Robin Williams as the Frog Prince and was written and directed by Eric
Idle; later episodes included Francis Ford Coppola's ''Rip Van Winkle'' starring
Harry Dean Stanton and Roger Vadim's ''Beauty and the Beast'' with Susan
Sarandon.

HBO, 'The Hitchhiker' (1983-87)

''Fraggle Rock'' began the same year, but we'll give the nod to this noirish
half-hour mystery anthology. The Hitchhiker (played for most of the show's run
by Page Fletcher), a self-righteous noodge in a weather-beaten jacket, narrates
tales of moral perfidy with supernatural twists and tasteful nudity. Maybe
things haven't changed that much at HBO in 30 years.

USA, 'Sanchez of Bel Air' (1986)

''Monk,'' beginning in 2002, set the pattern for USA's current lineup of
lightweight, amusing dramas. But the channel's first scripted effort was this
Hispanic family comedy starring Reni Santoni and, as the neighbor, the onetime
pop idol Bobby Sherman. A promo clip on YouTube indicates why you've never heard
of the show: ''Look at the bright side. Your son isn't gay, and your daughter's
not pregnant.'' Pause. ''At least not yet.''

Lifetime, 'The Days and Nights of Molly Dodd' (1989-91)

Jay Tarses' show was ahead of its time in many ways -- a single-camera sitcom
without a laugh track, a forerunner of legions of romantic dramedies. It could
set your teeth on edge with its forced whimsicality at the same time that it
provided long stretches of sharp, funny writing and excellent performances by
Blair Brown as Molly, a divorced woman trying to make ends meet in New York, and
David Strathairn as Moss, the shy bookstore owner who gave her a job and became
her lover. NBC gave it two partial seasons before canceling it; Lifetime picked
it up in one of the first instances of a cable channel rescuing a network show.

Nickelodeon, 'Hey Dude' (1989-91)

Technically, the first Nickelodeon scripted original (in a schedule dominated by
children's variety shows) was ''Out of Control'' in 1984, but that was sketch
comedy. This sitcom western set on an Arizona dude ranch was the channel's first
scripted narrative show, and set a durable pattern -- cute teenagers taking
pratfalls and learning life lessons -- for the channel's live-action
programming. TeenNick will recognize the 25th anniversary of ''Hey Dude'' with a
marathon on Monday.

MTV, 'Dead at 21' (1994)

This early move away from music videos (the channel's logo still read ''Music
Television'') was a paranoid science-fiction thriller with psychedelic touches.
The premise -- that the 20-year-old main character had been subjected to a
high-tech medical experiment that would kill him when he reached 21 --
anticipated cyber-dramas like ''Jake 2.0'' and ''Chuck'' and may have been a
perfect expression of the young-adult narcissism that has been the channel's
stock in trade. (Of course, the reality series ''The Real World'' had
established that even earlier, in 1992.)

AMC, 'Remember WENN' (1996-98)

More than a decade before ''Mad Men'' and ''Breaking Bad'' made AMC cable
drama's heavyweight champion, the channel carried this much -- much -- lighter
drama about the glory days of live radio (though darkness occasionally crept in,
courtesy of World War II). Heavily nostalgic with a redeeming dose of
astringency, it presented the lives and loves of a Pittsburgh station's staff in
the melodramatic and farcical styles of the programs we saw them producing.

Syfy, 'Mission Genesis' (1997)

Six clones, made from the cells of exceptionally accomplished people, are sent
into space to reboot the human race on a new planet. Based on the ''Deepwater
Black'' young-adult novels, this was the first scripted series for what was then
the Sci-Fi Channel. Syfy would hit its heyday in the next decade with another
space opera, ''Battlestar Galactica,'' but the channel has become more
earthbound since then -- none of its current dramas take place off the planet.

TNT, 'The New Adventures of Robin Hood' (1997-98)

This blissfully low-rent, amateurishly acted series, filmed in Lithuania, told
new stories featuring a Robin and Marian with impressively styled and blow-dried
hair. TNT continued in the fantasy-action genre with the better-known ''Babylon
5'' the next year, but now focuses on crime and legal dramas. The
adolescent's-adventure spirit of ''Robin'' continues, though, in the channel's
outlier series, the postapocalyptic war story ''Falling Skies.''

FX, 'Son of the Beach' (2000-2)

Remember when FX was mostly a bunch of young people sitting in a room in the
Flatiron district talking about pets or music or the news of the day? Oddly, it
didn't last. Beginning in 2002 with ''The Shield,'' the channel would become one
of cable's strongest, most interesting sources of drama and comedy. But before
that came this sitcom, a broad satire of buoy-and-bikini beach-rescue shows.

ABC Family, 'Wildfire' (2005-8)

In the channel's corporate history, which stretches back to Pat Robertson's
Christian Broadcasting Network, there had been earlier scripted shows, like
''State of Grace'' under the Fox Family label. But its modern era begins with
this teenage drama about a troubled girl whose life is changed by a stint at a
horse ranch. In the channel's current roster, the earnestness of ''Wildfire'' is
reflected in a show like ''The Fosters'' but not so much in its biggest hit, the
dark soap opera ''Pretty Little Liars.''

TBS, '10 Items or Less' (2006-9)

We're fudging a little here -- in its TBS superstation days, when it was known
for reruns, movies and Atlanta Braves games, the channel had some original
nighttime soap operas. But on TBS proper, the first scripted show was this
downsizing comedy about a family grocery store. Another comedy, ''My Boys,''
began the next night, and TBS has kept its focus on original sitcoms.

WE, 'The Divide' (2014)

WE began life 17 years ago as Romance Classics, a movie channel, before being
re-branded as WE: Women's Entertainment and then just WE. Before now, it has
spent its money on reality shows aimed at women like ''Bridezillas'' and
''Braxton Family Values.'' A desire to draw in more men may have something to do
with the channel's surprisingly high-profile foray into scripted drama, which
was created by the screenwriter Richard LaGravenese (''Behind the Candelabra'')
and the actor and director Tony Goldwyn (''Scandal''). Marin Ireland plays a
caseworker for an Innocence Project-like organization investigating whether a
death-row prisoner was wrongfully convicted.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/13/arts/television/false-starts-before-cables-gol
den-age.html

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Nia Long and Jahmil French in ''The Divide'' on WE. Above
from left, Malcolm McDowell and Mary Steenburgen in ''Faerie Tale Theatre''
Roland Kickinger, Leila Arcieri and Jamie Bergman in ''Son of the Beach.''
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE WILKIE/WE TV
SHOWTIME
FX) (AR16)
 From left, Christopher  Liam Moore, John Lehr  and Greg Davis Jr. in  TBS's
2006-9 sitcom ''10  Items or Less.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANNY FELD/TBS) (AR18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                            July 23, 2014 Wednesday

Word of the Day | pathos

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 249 words



HIGHLIGHT: This word has appeared in 185 New York Times articles in the past
year.


pathos \[#x2c8]pa-[#x2cc]thäs, -[#x2cc]tho[#x307]s, -[#x2cc]thos also
[#x2c8]pa-\ noun

1. a quality that arouses emotions (especially pity or sorrow)
 2. a feeling of sympathy and sorrow for the misfortunes of others
 3. a style that has the power to evoke feelings

The word pathos has appeared in 185 New York Times articles in the past year,
including on May 16 in the movie review "The Internet Isn't Just for the Young"
by Neil Genzlinger:

Early in the documentary "Cyber-Seniors," you might find yourself saying, "Ugh,
are they really going to make me watch octogenarians poke fruitlessly at laptops
for 75 minutes?" But the film soon stops that torture and becomes a likable
intergenerational tale with a bit of unexpected pathos.

... But eventually one instructor decides to make a YouTube video with his
instructee, and soon there's a contest to see which pair can come up with the
best video. Some of the results are funny - here you'll learn that an iron is
actually a cooking tool - while some are bittersweet. And as this is going on, a
distressing side story involving Macaulee develops. The film's director, Saffron
Cassaday, is her older sister, and she does a commendable job of melding
Macaulee's personal setback with the film's overall theme.

The Word of the Day and its definitions have been provided by Vocabulary.com and
the Visual Thesaurus.

Learn more about the word "pathos" and see usage examples across a range of
subjects on the Vocabulary dictionary.

Click on the word below to map it and hear it pronounced:

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                              July 25, 2014 Friday

Today in Small Business: What It's Really Like to Own a McDonald's

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 409 words



HIGHLIGHT: Why are fewer small businesses buying cyber liability insurance?


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.

The Economy

Durable orders rose in June.

Crisis-mired General Motors would be in much worse shape without sales of big
S.U.V.s.

The International Monetary Fund said on Thursday that the world economy is
expanding less than it had forecast - and Tyler Durden calls it the comedy of
quarterly errors.

Management

Fewer small businesses have been buying cyber liability insurance since the
breach at Target.

Should businesses get accredited by the Council of Better Business Bureaus?

This company is making millions by giving you five fewer chips per bag.

Franchises

Here's what it's really like to own a McDonald's franchise.

The NAACP partners with Dunkin' Donuts in a new initiative to increase the
number of African-American owned franchises.

Burger King's 33-year-old chief executive has helped engineer a total
restructuring of the burger chain in just 13 months on the job.

Retail

Dick's Sporting Goods chainhas laid off 478 teaching pros as sales of golf gear
dwindles.

Employees

A new study finds that women and minorities in leadership positions get poor
performance reports if they promote diversity within the company.

Expense report data shows that Delta, Marriott, National and Starbucks are the
top travel brands for business travelers.

Here is what big data could mean for the future of recruiting.

Cash Flow

Here are nine ways to get paid faster.

Mobile payment provider Square is integrating with a company so that it can
better automate tasks such as sending out reminders.

Opportunities

Here's why the do-it-yourself smart home market will reach $7.8 billion by 2019.

Start-Up

A start-up wants to change the way restaurants schedule work.

Around the World

This is what Big Macs cost around the world.

These are the world's coolest bookstores.

Ideas

A device to help you sleep better raises almost $500,000 in two days on
Kickstarter.

Here is how Firestone is solving a tricky natural-resource issue.

Social Media

Facebook is now valued more highly than AT&T and Coke.

Technology

Microsoft's engineers make a sexy video.

HP invests $50 million in a leading distributor of Hadoop open-source software
for storing, processing, and analyzing data.

President Obama plans to issue privacy rules on drone use in the United States.

Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps
clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             August 8, 2014 Friday

Facebook Messenger Switch Controversy Is Part Misunderstanding, Part Mistrust

BYLINE: MOLLY WOOD

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1054 words



HIGHLIGHT: Facebook users are angry over a forced migration to the
company&#8217;s Messenger app and worried about its privacy implications. Are
they overreacting?


The great Facebook Messenger migration is upon us, and Facebook users are not
happy.

As usual.

Over the last 10 days, Facebook has been pushing its mobile users to install
Facebook Messenger, a standalone app for the iOS and Android mobile operating
systems that centralizes messages sent through Facebook and adds features like
group messaging, video conferencing and selfie-sharing.

If you've read or sent a Facebook message with your mobile app recently, you've
certainly seen the bright, colorful screen that intercepts you and exhorts you
to download the new app. Facebook hasn't specified the deadline for downloading
Messenger. But at some point, presumably, you won't be able to see or respond to
messages in the primary Facebook app until you install the messaging app.

Facebook says Messenger, which has existed as an app since 2011, is faster and
more engaging and offers more features than its main mobile application's
built-in messages interface.

But Facebook users believe they're being forced to switch to a separate app to
chat with their contacts. And they do not appear pleased. Messenger has a
one-star rating from customers using it on the iPhone, with almost 6,422
reviews, from the last few days, as well as pages of negative reviews of the
Android version.

The forced installation isn't the only thing that's sitting poorly. The app's
seemingly overreaching permissions on Android caused a stir late last year.

The app does take some liberties compared with other messaging apps, although
reading any app's permissions is likely to give you pause. Messenger asks for
access to your contacts, location, text messages, camera and microphone and
more. And when you install it, its first request is to sync with the contacts on
your phone.

It's not surprising that people's first response is, "No, thank you."

Compared to the app permissions for SnapChat, Messenger isn't wildly different.
And Facebook says that even though the permissions list includes bullet points
like the ability to read text messages, the app only uses text access to confirm
phone numbers.

In other cases, the permissions sound scary, but are actually logical.
Permission to access the phone's microphone to record audio does makes sense: it
records audio when you're taking a video and also when you're video
conferencing.

But Facebook hasn't done much to make that clear.

A Facebook representative pointed me to the company's Messenger help pages,
which attempt to explain some of the concerns about app permissions. But they
don't cover the entire list.

(Note that an app's permissions are not the same thing as its terms of service.
Facebook told me Messenger is covered by the same terms of service and data use
policies as Facebook itself.)

A major source of the problem isn't Facebook - it's how Android handles app
permissions. I touched on this in my review of the Blackphone, which uses a
customized version of Android that gives you more detailed controls over app
permissions.

If you installed Messenger on a Blackphone, you'd be able to revoke its access
to things you didn't think it needed, like contacts or location or text
messages. Once upon a time, Google itself offered permissions management in the
Android  version called Jelly Bean, but it has been removed in the latest
version of the operating system, called KitKat.

Apple, on the other hand, does a better job of handling app permissions. You
won't see a long list of permission requests when you install Messenger, but
when you start using it, you'll be notified option-by-option of what Messenger
wants to access.

So, while adding your location to a message is turned on by default in the
Android app, the iPhone version asks permission for Messenger to use location
services. Similarly, the first time you tap the video button, you'll be prompted
to allow access to the microphone, and the same is true for access to photos.

And here's the surprising thing about Messenger: It's actually not that bad.
Although you must download a second app, which is a minor annoyance, you can
still see, respond to and receive messages in the full Facebook app.

Facebook describes the process as "switching" to a separate app, but in fact, in
the iOS Facebook app, the messages pane is simply replaced with the new app
icon, and then you tap the top of the screen to return to the main interface.

On Android, you see the same messages icon as always, but when you tap a thread,
you get a drop-down interface that looks a little like a text-message thread. I
also like how, on Android, the so-called "chat head" can sit on top of whatever
else you're doing, so if you're engaged in a conversation you don't have to
switch screens.

And a big selling point for me is that my friends are already on Facebook. I
have SnapChat, WhatsApp and Cyber Dust on my phone but only a few friends on
each. If I were dying for the ability to send stickers, compose group messages
and deliver selfies to my friends, I'd want to go where my friends were - and
that's Facebook.

The flap over Messenger is an example of how Facebook often fails to communicate
very well with its users - and how it's suffering from a long history of
mistrust.

For example, I refused to allow Messenger access to my contacts because I didn't
know what it was going to do with them. A Facebook representative told me that
syncing would show me which of my contacts who aren't my Facebook friends also
use Messenger. But those people won't show up for me to chat with unless they,
too, have enabled contact syncing. And I can turn off syncing in the settings
(which will remove any synced contacts who aren't my friends) or just disallow
it in the first place.

Again, relatively harmless sounding, but I had to call Facebook to find that
out, and it's far more complicated than it needs to be.

As for location services, I turned those off immediately, because there's no
good reason for Facebook to tell my friends where I am all the time.

The fact that people are so upset over the Messenger migration shows that
Facebook has used up a lot of our good will and trust over the years, and will
have to work that much harder to get users back on board.

Oh, and in the meantime, if you just use Facebook in your mobile browser, all
this messaging flap will be moot, anyway. It works just as it always did on the
web.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 14, 2014 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Power of Two

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2925 words


Ah, synergy: such a '90s term. In the age of social media, however, the concept
has taken on new life, as the power couples of social media -- romantic pairings
in which each member enjoys professional prominence, as well as an army of
followers online -- have discovered co-branding opportunities of Twitter and
Instagram.

It's a far cry from the pre-Facebook era, when a ''power couple'' was typically
only deemed as such after accruing enough party photographs, arm in arm, at
black-tie benefits, to the point that it eventually scored a mention in a
newspaper or magazine as a union to be reckoned with. Thousands of fans, if not
millions, follow their every 140-character utterance, so power players who
romantically merge their personal brands can now jump-start the process,
leveraging their influence on social media to frame themselves as a public unit,
a powerfully synchronous commodity.

Thanks to the limitless opportunities for self-promotion that exist on Twitter,
Facebook and other sites, each member of a power couple can now serve as the
other's best publicist, pumping his or her partner's latest television
appearance, award or book signing, all in the spirit of love -- hey, when your
partner says it, you don't even have to bother with a humblebrag, right?

But it is not just an issue of cyber-logrolling. Through a strategic use of such
platforms, tweet-savvy power couples can position their own relationships as the
effective equivalent of an online reality show, enhancing their mutual public
image through a clever display of sitcom-ready banter, glamorous travel selfies
and quirky relationship details that show off their distinct personality as a
unit.

And, of course, such a strategy has its drawbacks, as the golfer Rory McIlroy
(@McIlroyRory; 2.05 million followers) and the tennis player Caroline Wozniacki
(@CaroWozniacki; 669,000) discovered after a high-profile romance that bloomed
and then imploded on Twitter. After their breakup in May, which some
commentators suggested may have begun when Ms. Wozniacki, 24, tweeted an
unflattering photo of Mr. McIlroy, now 25, napping on his bed with his mouth
agape, the recent British Open and P.G.A. Championship winner told reporters
glumly that he planned to stay off social media ''for the foreseeable future''
to heal his wounds. (He didn't last long.)

Ms. Wozniacki was forced to swap out her Twitter avatar, from a shot of the two
of them high-fiving on the fairway, settling on a campy shot of her posing as a
witch stirring a caldron, which some observers interpreted as a jokey attempt to
put a hex on her ex. Social media, at least, served as a nice forum to strike
back.

Before long, she was Instagraming see-what-you-missed-out-on shots of herself in
a tiny blue bikini, frolicking on a Miami beach with Serena Williams and
cheekily alluding to her one-inch height advantage over her former boyfriend on
Instagram (''Out and about in Istanbul. It's been 3 years since I have worn
heels on a normal day out. #feelsgood #looksgood #shopping #highheels #sun'' she
wrote on July 17).

The following is an admittedly unscientific look at some of leading power
couples of the moment -- drawn from the news media, entertainment, politics,
sports and high-tech -- where each member also happens to be a star of social
media in his or her own right, and how they use the reach of social media to
ensure that one plus one equals three. (Twitter and Instagram followers are as
of Wednesday afternoon.)

Kanye West and Kim Kardashian

WHO THEY ARE Kimye, obviously.

SOCIAL MEDIA FOOTPRINT

kimkardashian, 17.4 million Instagram followers; @kanyewest 10.7 million Twitter
followers.

SOCIAL MEDIA STRATEGY They are America's pop-confection answer to Prince William
and Princess Kate, and this tabloid-staple duo has mined the outer limits of
social media technology to present itself as a royal couple. Mr. West mainly
leaves the social media duties to his bride, but Ms. Kardashian's torrential
stream of sumptuous selfies shows them striding down the red carpet of the Met
Ball, strolling the banks of the Seine in Alexander McQueen for Vogue and
cavorting at the Paris show for Mr. West's fashion line. The only thing missing
is a double coronation. Indeed, their social media documentation of their
resplendent private wedding in May might have made Charles and Di blush. His
Royal Yeezy, in fact, later complained to reporters that the newlyweds were
forced to spend ''like four days'' of their honeymoon fiddling with the
processing on the shots, to make sure they were public ready, after Annie
Leibovitz pulled out of the gig. Their efforts paid off: Their signature wedding
photo has attracted 2.39 million likes, making it the most ''liked'' photo in
the site's history.

SAMPLE TWEETS ''Kanye's last Yeezus concert was so much fun with the whole
family'' -- @KimKardashian March 7.

''I love my family.'' -- @kanyewest, March 26.

John Legend and Chrissy Teigen

WHO THEY ARE Singer, songwriter (''All of Me,'' ''Ordinary People''); Sports
Illustrated swimsuit model, food blogger.

TWITTER FOOTPRINT

@johnlegend, 5.66 million; @chrissyteigen 502,000.

SOCIAL MEDIA STRATEGY When they married in Italy last year, it seemed like a
story as old as the Stones: Another pop star lands another supermodel. But the
2010 swimsuit edition's rookie of the year refused to disappear into her
platinum-selling husband's shadow. With Ms. Teigen forging a second career as a
Twitter star -- she was hailed as the funniest person on Twitter by KIIS-FM --
the two have graduated from the ''arm candy'' stage to achieve legit pop culture
power couple status. Online, she carries the bulk of the life-logging duties,
mining their marriage for her best material. Her tweets about her husband's
impersonations of their dog, Pippa (who has his own Twitter handle,
@PippaThePup), or his gentle ribbing over her malapropisms (''I just told john I
thought 'for granted' was one word and I think he mumbled something along the
lines of thank god/prenup/easy divorce'''), have raised their profile as a
couple, giving us, as The Huffington Post wrote, ''an inside look at the
glamorous, jet-setting life,'' while still proving that ''she doesn't take
herself too seriously.''

SAMPLE TWEETS " 'That's....John Mayer' 'That's...John Lennon' 'Look..Usher' 'His
wife is the epitome of beauty and brains' I made one of those up yes'' --
@chrissyteigen, Jan. 12.

''Chrissy's in a EA video game (#NFStherun). ... Does that mean she won't mind
me playing Madden so much?'' -- @johnlegend, Sept. 27, 2011.

Lena Dunham and Jack Antonoff

WHO THEY ARE creator and star of HBO's ''Girls''; guitarist and singer for the
bands Fun and Bleachers.

TWITTER FOOTPRINT

@lenadunham, 1.67 million; @jackantonoff, 62,600.

SOCIAL MEDIA STRATEGY In downtown circles, self-evident shilling is as uncool as
stonewash. So it's little wonder that when two of the city's reigning ironists,
who have been dating since 2012, act to hype each other's album or book releases
(which they do often), they mix in a Bushwick-ready dose of deadpan. ''Proud as
heck of this guy, who brought down the house at The Troubadour tonight,'' she
wrote in an Instagram post in March. The accompanying post-concert selfie,
however, showed them sprawled on a sofa, looking wan and lifeless, as if
suffering the late stages of cholera. The social media side of their
relationship, however, goes well beyond mutual self-promotion. With customary
tartness, Ms. Dunham entertains fans with smirky dispatches from the home front:
''It's cool to show different sides of yourself.'' -@jackantonoff politely
telling me I've tweeted something dumb,'' Ms. Dunham tweeted last September. The
overall effect is to remind fans that ''Girls'' is not a reality show, that the
real-life Lena is not doomed to suffer love, like her television alter ego,
Hannah Horvath.

SAMPLE TWEETS ''sweeter than fiction is here! ... very inspired by
@taylorswift13 & LOVE working with her. hear the john hughes in it?'' --
jackantonoff, Oct. 20, 2013.

''So happy for @taylorswift13 @jackantonoff who wrote my favorite song of the
year. You will never guess which one's my lover.'' -- @lenadunham, Dec. 12,
2013.

Brian Stelter and Jamie Stelter

WHO THEY ARE Host of CNN's ''Reliable Sources'' (and a former New York Times
reporter); Emmy-nominated traffic anchor for NY1, food blogger, novelist.

TWITTER FOOTPRINT

@brianstelter, 233,000 followers; @JamieStelter, 11,800.

SOCIAL MEDIA STRATEGY A Twitter love affair for the ages. Mr. Stelter met his
future bride -- then Jamie Shupak -- on the service (Mr. Stelter first flirted
with her via direct message, he has said). They used Twitter to help forge
prominent careers (the tireless Mr. Stelter has more than 60,000 tweets to his
credit, an average of roughly 25 per day since he joined the service in 2008).
And after their engagement last year -- they married in February -- they asked
friends to hold off on going public with the news so they could plan their
social media rollout (Mr. Stelter also told people that he checked to make sure
@JamieStelter was available on Twitter before he popped the question). Indeed,
the couple emblazoned its wedding invitations, and the custom skullcaps for the
event, with an official wedding hashtag, #thestelters. Since then, they have
shown the boundless energy of young lovers in promoting each other's latest
books, television star turns or shout-outs in the media. Ms. Stelter has even
dutifully live-tweeted her husband's ''Reliable Sources'' appearances from his
account. Their indefatigable efforts on social media seem to be paying off: The
Stelters landed on The New York Observer ''2014 Media Power Couples'' list in
January.

SAMPLE TWEETS ''We did it! @CNNReliable loved my live-tweeting so much that they
asked us back. @brianstelter did a pretty good job hosting, too. #Reliable'' --
@JamieStelter, Aug. 27, 2013.

''NYC's Halloween Parade is about to start on NY1. @PatKiernan and @JamieShupak
are co-hosting -- I'm live-tweeting on Jamie's account now!'' -- @brianstelter,
Oct. 31, 2013.

Carmelo and La La Anthony

WHO THEY ARE New York Knicks forward; former MTV V.J., actress and author of the
recent best seller ''The Love Playbook: Rules for Love, Sex and Happiness.''

TWITTER FOOTPRINT

@carmeloanthony, 5.23 million; @lala, 3.08 million.

SOCIAL MEDIA STRATEGY ''Basketball Wives,'' the VH1 reality show, may have left
a lingering sense of N.B.A. wives as Gucci-clad groupies who learned their
interpersonal skills watching Jerry Springer. But La La Anthony has proved an
invaluable partner to her husband during his tumultuous New York tenure, using
social media to serve as his de facto publicist and bodyguard. After a 2011
trade sent him from the media black hole of Denver to the fishbowl of New York,
Ms. Anthony summoned her considerable Twitter chops to deflect criticism aimed
at her husband, who was burdened with restoring a hapless franchise to
championship glory. Indeed, the Knicks' publicity department could scarcely be
less enthusiastic in pumping his All-Star credentials (''@carmeloanthony Clutch
player of the year!!!! @carmeloanthony well deserved''). Their Instagrams and
Facebook posts from the front row and the Met Ball, meanwhile, underscored that
they have transcended the jock orbit to become latter-day fashionistas and
socialites in the city.

SAMPLE TWEETS ''If u havent already, get to the movies ASAP & support my wife
@lala & the whole cast of Think Like A Man Too. FUNNIEST MOVIE OF THE YEAR! RT''
--

@carmeloanthony, June 22.

''62 points!!!!! WHAT!!! @carmeloanthony is on FIRE!!!!! This is unreal!!!
Unbelievable!!!!!! I'm so proud #MVP #knicks.'' -- @lala, Jan. 24.

Brad Goreski and Gary Janetti

WHO THEY ARE Celebrity fashion stylist and star of Bravo's ''It's a Brad, Brad
World''; ''Family Guy'' writer and co-executive producer and co-creator of the
PBS comedy ''Vicious'' and ''Will & Grace'' executive producer.

TWITTER FOOTPRINT

@mrbradgoreski, 274,000 followers; @GaryJanetti, 154,000.

SOCIAL MEDIA STRATEGY It's not exactly ''A Star Is Born,'' but the social media
interchange between this TV royalty couple reflects the rapid ascent of Mr.
Goreski, left, since he escaped Rachel Zoe's shadow with a hit reality show of
his own. Mr. Goreski, a stylist whose clients have included Jessica Alba and
Christina Ricci, was still a television bit player at a time when his longtime
boyfriend, Mr. Janetti, was already an established power broker in the industry.
These days, however, Mr. Goreski has become famous enough to offer more than
occasional Twitter boosts to Mr. Janetti's latest ventures, like his bitchy
British sitcom, ''Vicious,'' starring Ian McKellen and Derek Jacobi, broadcast
in the United States on PBS. This is not to say that Mr. Janetti, who has
provided comic relief on his partner's show, doesn't do his part for the couple
on social media. Mr. Janetti, who has been called ''the funniest guy on
Twitter'' by the site xoJane, serves up an endless stream of droll epigrams
(''If straights don't let us get married we should stop cutting their hair''),
which Mr. Goreski dutifully retweets. It's just the sort of support Oscar Wilde
could have used from Lord Alfred Douglas.

SAMPLE TWEETS ''Don't forget to tune into @Vicious tonight at 1030pm on @pbs!
Only two episodes left!! Don't miss it! #Viciouspbs'' -- @mrbradgoreski July 27.

''Ugly people sing about breakups and good looking people sing about going to
the club'' -- @GaryJanetti, June 28.

ShayCarl and Colette Butler

WHO THEY ARE The Shaytards, vloggers, YouTube stars.

TWITTER FOOTPRINT

@shaycarl, 612,000; @katilette, 330,000.

SOCIAL MEDIA STRATEGY They are living proof that maybe all it takes is social
media to be deemed a power couple. Under the online handle the Shaytards, this
Los Angeles-based couple (he was a radio D.J.; she a singer) were early adopters
to YouTube vlogging, and they parlayed their saccharine daily dispatches from
the home front starring their family of (now) seven into a 2012 appearance on
Anderson Cooper's talk show, as well as a profile in Forbes. They endlessly
promote their videos (''Tragic Bike Wreck,'' ''Baby Boy Getting Teeth!''), which
make ''7th Heaven'' reruns look edgy, on multiple YouTube channels (the
''Shaytards'' channel alone has attracted more than one billion views), as well
as Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and Google Plus. It would be hard to call them
out for social media self-promotion, however, since that has been the basis of
their career.

SAMPLE TWEETS ''Remodeling the new house takes cute babies and babysitting
grandmas!'' -- @shaycarl, July 19.

''I can't wait to see @shaycarl on @FoodNetwork while packing for @VidCon
Holla!!!'' -- @katilette, June 22.

Chris Hughes and Sean Eldridge

WHO THEY ARE Facebook co-founder, publisher and editor in chief of The New
Republic; advocate for same-sex marriage and environmental protection, candidate
for 19th Congressional district of New York.

TWITTER FOOTPRINT

@chrishughes 37,300;

@SeanEldridge 12,000.

SOCIAL MEDIA STRATEGY Promoting the greater good by promoting themselves. These
fresh-faced politicos, who married in 2012, were anointed Beltway heavyweights
when Mr. Hughes, right, a roommate of Mark Zuckerberg's at Harvard, tapped his
Facebook millions to buy the century-old haute liberal bible that same year. As
a couple, they tweet and retweet each other continuously, but only in the most
earnest tones and only in service, it seems, of the cause of the moment. Their
growing social media profile as a couple has made them a powerful co-branded
entity for activism. A few years ago, they made a joint offer on Twitter to
donate $10 for everyone who added a like to the Facebook page of Equality NC, a
North Carolina-based gay rights organization. Mr. Eldridge, meanwhile, was an
enthusiastic champion for Jumo, Mr. Hughes's short-lived social network for
social engagement, on his feed. Similarly, when his husband announced his
candidacy for Congress, Mr. Hughes pointed followers to a YouTube video
explaining Mr. Eldridge's positions on core issues.

SAMPLE TWEETS ''Happy Thanksgiving and Happy Bday to my love @chrishughes. Help
celebrate by supporting his bday fundraising for Acumen'' -- @SeanEldridge, Nov.
26, 2009.

''@motherjones reports on the work my husband @seaneldridge is doing to reform
the campaign finance system in NY'' -- @chrishughes, Oct. 25, 2012.

Bill and Melinda Gates

WHO THEY ARE Microsoft co-founder; co-founder of the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation.

TWITTER FOOTPRINT

@BillGates, 16.9 million;

@melindagates, 534,000.

SOCIAL MEDIA STRATEGY The founders of a philanthropic foundation with a $40
billion endowment have leveraged their enormous audience on Twitter and other
platforms to transform their image from garden-variety geek zillionaires into
issues-first global ambassadors, on the level of a Bono or a George Soros.
Theirs is a running dialogue on Twitter, but one remarkably free of the expected
tech-world gossip, Instagram selfies from black-tie benefits or spirited plugs
for Windows 9. With grave issues like health care, global poverty and education
as their focus, the couple's ample online banter is consistently high-minded,
earnest and global in scope -- imagine if Dag Hammarskjold had taken to change
the world via thumb typing.

SAMPLE TWEETS ''Today India is polio-free. @billgates explains why this matters
+ great video on last polio ward in India ... #endpolio'' -- @melindagates, June
13.

''Knowing needed vaccines sat on shelves led @melindagates and I to do work in a
world beyond reach of market forces.'' -- @billgates, Sept. 21, 2012.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/14/fashion/power-couples-on-twitter-and-instagram
.html

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (E8)  DRAWING (DRAWING BY LOUISA BERTMAN)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 18, 2014 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

When Baby Pictures Offend the Law

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 801 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Baby Pictures at Doctor's? Cute, Sure, but Illegal'' (front page, Aug. 10):

I have been caring for patients with breast cancer and hematologic disorders for
almost 40 years in private practice and in academia. During that time I have
accumulated hundreds of pictures, mostly of babies born after recovery from
cancer, but also of other similar events like weddings and graduations.

Some of my patients send me yearly pictures, usually around Christmas, extending
through the graduations and marriages of their children. I have often shared
these pictures, which I keep in several albums, with patients confronting new
and frightening diagnoses so that they might understand that there is a
possibility of a normal life in the future. It reassures them and makes me feel
good. I have never had a patient object to my use of those pictures.

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or Hipaa, passed by
politicians and administered by bureaucrats who have no idea what we do, has
created a nightmare of meaningless paperwork, oversight and requirements that
have further eroded what little humanity is left in American medicine.

ARTHUR L. LEVY New Haven, Aug. 10, 2014

The writer is an associate clinical professor of medicine at the Yale University
School of Medicine.

To the Editor:

I am appalled by the banning of the display of baby pictures in the offices of
obstetricians. In this Orwellian era of government surveillance of our personal
communications and the Internet's making a mockery of any semblance of privacy,
one can only marvel at the government's ability to find one more way to waste
our tax money.

The protection of patient privacy should always be a major goal for the
professional community. Unfortunately, Hipaa, with its petty and meaningless
regulations, does nothing to further that goal.

CAROL H. DEDOV Philadelphia, Aug. 10, 2014

The writer is a registered nurse.

To the Editor:

Would someone tell me why you would not be able to post baby pictures on the
wall of the pediatrician's office because of privacy but be able to find all of
our private information on the Internet? Criminals are taking full advantage of
this.

The Internet can be a wonderful source of information, but we need laws to
protect us from cyber-fraud. Perhaps the members of Congress could work on
legislation to address this when they get back from their vacation.

CAROLE SHAPIRO Wayne, N.J., Aug. 10, 2014

To the Editor:

I am an Episcopal priest, properly vetted and cleared to conduct hospital visits
in Jacksonville, Fla. Recently, I was prevented from entering a pre-op area to
pray with a patient before his procedure. I was there at the patient's request.

A nurse told me that pre-op was an open bay, that only curtains separated the
patients, and that I might overhear Hipaa-protected information. I was told,
''You should have prayed with him before he went to pre-op.''

This incident and your article about the banning of baby pictures at the
doctor's office are examples of the unintended consequences of Hipaa, applied by
people in fear and devoid of any imagination or common sense.

(Canon) J. PERRY SMITH Jacksonville, Fla., Aug. 10, 2014

To the Editor:

What bureaucratic nonsense that obstetricians and other doctors who deal with
babies must take down bulletin boards of smiling-baby headshots, because the
displays violate a neonate patient's privacy under the federal Hipaa law.

While Hipaa may be well intentioned, more often than not it just gets in the way
between doctors and patients. I know that it has added reams to paperwork;
whenever I go to a new doctor, there are pages of boilerplate
patient-rights-and-policy gobbledygook and unnecessary questionnaires.

Now, Hipaa could really protect me if it prohibited doctors from snapping my
digital photograph for their records, an increasingly common practice that
leaves my likeness open to computer hacking along with everything else in my
file. Besides, more doctors and hospitals are now insisting upon a photo ID,
lest impostors try to stiff them.

I don't have to show ID -- photo or otherwise -- to vote. Courts say that's
discriminatory. Isn't it likewise discriminatory when doctors and hospitals ask
sick people for a photo ID?

BILL APPLE New York, Aug. 10, 2014

To the Editor:

You report that federal privacy laws block doctors from posting pictures of
patient babies where others can see them. Surely parents sending baby pictures
to physicians do not expect the photos to be secret.

The law should be amended to permit their posting, unless parents request that
they be kept private. This is the type of regulation that fuels claims that
government is the problem.

JEFF SOVERN Jamaica, Queens, Aug. 10, 2014

The writer is a professor of law at St. John's University and co-coordinator of
the Consumer Law and Policy Blog.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/18/opinion/when-baby-pictures-offend-the-law.html

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EVAH FAN)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             August 18, 2014 Monday

Hack of Community Health Systems Affects 4.5 Million Patients

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 376 words



HIGHLIGHT: On Monday, a hospital network said personal data for 4.5 million
patients had been stolen in a cyberattack by a group based in China.


Community Health Systems, a publicly traded hospital operator based in Franklin,
Tenn., said that personal data, including names, Social Security numbers and
addresses, for 4.5 million patients had been compromised in a Chinese
cyberattack on its systems from April to June.

The company, which operates 206 hospitals in 29 states, said in a filing with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on Monday that that the attackers had
bypassed its security systems and stolen data that also included birth dates and
telephone numbers for the patients, who had been referred to or treated by
doctors affiliated with the company over the last five years.

The company is required to notify affected patients and agencies under the
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, which protects such
personal data.

Community Health Systems engaged Mandiant, a subsidiary of FireEye, the
Milpitas, Calif. computer security company, to conduct forensics on the attack.
Mandiant said it believed the attackers were part of an advanced group based in
China that typically steals valuable intellectual property, such as medical
device and equipment development data. Instead, the criminals took nonmedical
data. The hospital operator noted that no patient credit-card, medical or
clinical information had been taken.

The company confirmed the hack in July and said it had eradicated the attackers'
malware from its systems and increased its computer defenses to prevent future
attacks. The company said it would be providing identity theft protection to
affected patients and carried cyber insurance to mitigate some of its losses.

Security experts have long predicted that the digitization of medical records
would invite hackers. Last year, Stephen Cobb, a senior researcher at ESET, the
antivirus company, calculated that 24,800 Americans had protected health
information exposed - per day - in 2013, based on the number of breaches
disclosed on the website of the Health and Human Services Department last year.

Including the breach at Community Health Systems, six million Americans have had
personally identifiable data compromised in 2014, according to the agency's
website, which only lists breaches that have affected more than 500 patients.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 19, 2014 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hospital Company Hacked, Affecting 4.5 Million Patients

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 386 words


Community Health Systems, a publicly traded hospital operator based in Franklin,
Tenn., said that personal data, including names, Social Security numbers and
addresses, for 4.5 million patients had been compromised in a Chinese
cyberattack on its systems from April to June.

The company, which operates 206 hospitals in 29 states, said in a filing with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on Monday that that the attackers had
bypassed its security systems and stolen data that also included birth dates and
telephone numbers for the patients, who had been referred to or treated by
doctors affiliated with the company over the last five years.

The company is required to notify affected patients and agencies under the
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, which protects such
personal data.

Community Health Systems engaged Mandiant, a subsidiary of FireEye, the
Milpitas, Calif. computer security company, to conduct forensics on the attack.
Mandiant said it believed the attackers were part of an advanced group based in
China that typically steals valuable intellectual property, such as medical
device and equipment development data. Instead, the criminals took nonmedical
data. The hospital operator noted that no patient credit-card, medical or
clinical information had been taken.

The company confirmed the hack in July and said it had eradicated the attackers'
malware from its systems and increased its computer defenses to prevent future
attacks. The company said it would be providing identity theft protection to
affected patients and carried cyber insurance to mitigate some of its losses.

Security experts have long predicted that the digitization of medical records
would invite hackers. Last year, Stephen Cobb, a senior researcher at ESET, the
antivirus company, calculated that 24,800 Americans had protected health
information exposed -- per day -- in 2013, based on the number of breaches
disclosed on the website of the Health and Human Services Department last year.

Including the breach at Community Health Systems, six million Americans have had
personally identifiable data compromised in 2014, according to the agency's
website, which only lists breaches that have affected more than 500 patients.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/08/18/hack-of-community-health-systems-affect
s-4-5-million-patients/

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             August 22, 2014 Friday

Android Phones Hit by 'Ransomware'

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 682 words



HIGHLIGHT: Hackers have figured out how to lock people out of their Android
devices and demand money in exchange for letting them back in.


You are guilty of child porn, child abuse, zoophilia or sending out bulk spam.
You are a criminal. The Federal Bureau of Investigation has locked you out of
your phone and the only way to regain access to all your data is to pay a few
hundred dollars.

That message - or variations of it - has popped up on hundreds of thousands of
people's Android devices in just the last month. The message claims to be from
the F.B.I., or cybersecurity firms, but is in fact the work of Eastern European
hackers who are hijacking Android devices with a particularly pernicious form of
malware, dubbed "ransomware" because it holds its victims' devices hostage until
they pay a ransom.

Ransomware is not new. Five years ago, criminals in Eastern Europe began holding
PC users' devices hostage with similar tools. The scheme was so successful that
security experts say many cybercriminals have abandoned spam and fake antivirus
frauds to take up ransomware full time. By 2012, security experts had identified
more than 16 gangs extorting millions from ransomware victims around the world.

Now those same criminals are taking their scheme mobile, successfully infecting
Android devices at disturbing rates. In just the last 30 days, roughly 900,000
people were infected with a form of ransomware called "ScarePackage," according
to Lookout, a San Francisco-based mobile security firm.

"This is, by far, the biggest U.S. targeted threat of ransomware we've seen,"
said Jeremy Linden, a senior security product manager at Lookout. "In the past
month, a single piece of malware has infected as many devices in the U.S., as a
quarter of all families of malware in 2013."

In addition to ScarePackage, Mr. Linden and a team at Lookout have also been
tracking another strain of ransomware dubbed "ColdBrother," or "Sypeng," which
not only locks users out of their device, but can take a photo from the device's
camera, can answer and drop phone calls and search for banking applications on
the device.

And in just the last three weeks, Lookout discovered a new form of ransomware
called ScareMeNot, which has already managed to infect more than 30,000 Android
devices.

Victims get infected with the ransomware through a method known as a "drive-by
download" in which they simply need visit a website - in some cases a
pornography site -  to inadvertently download the ransomware onto their machine.
In other cases, they download the ransomware by downloading fake apps that
masquerade as popular services such as Adobe Flash or an anti-virus product.

Once infected, it is very difficult to remove. Typically, criminals will flash a
fake image onto the user's screen which purports to be from the F.B.I. or
Mandiant, a cybersecurity firm now owned by FireEye, or a U.S. cyber crime task
force, informing them that they have violated a law and will not be able to
regain access to their device and data until they have paid several hundred
dollars in a Moneypak voucher.

It is unclear whether users will then actually regain access to their device if
they pay. Lookout said it did not get that far because it refused to pay any
money to cybercriminals.

By reverse coding the ransomware, Lookout's engineers found several clues
indicating that the ransomware's authors are of Eastern European origin. Russian
and Slavic words and slang appeared in the code.

Lookout's chief technology officer, Kevin Mahaffey, cautioned that Android users
not "freak out." Mr. Mahaffey suggested that people be careful about links they
visit and where they download apps from. "There's malware in the Google Play
store but there's more malware outside Google Play," Mr. Mahaffey said.

Most importantly, Mr. Mahaffey said, if you do find yourself inadvertently
installing an application, be sure not to grant the application any
administrator privileges.

Of course, Lookout has a vested interest in publicizing this mobile ransomware
threat. Lookout, which just received $150 million in venture capital financing,
detects and stops these strains of ransomware from infecting users who download
its mobile app for Android and iPhones.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             August 24, 2014 Sunday

Hackers Target Video Games for Fun, Profit and Better Scores

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 824 words



HIGHLIGHT: Sophisticated hackers are infiltrating video game makers not only to
steal credit card numbers, passwords and trade secrets, but also, it turns out,
simply for the virtual street cred.


Hackers are breaking into American companies for credit card numbers, passwords,
trade secrets and - it turns out - for phony video game scores.

For the past five years, hackers inside China have been breaking into American
video game makers' systems, collecting proprietary source code in an ambitious
effort to crack the games for free use and to develop tools to cheat them,
according to research by the counter threat unit at Dell SecureWorks, a security
firm that was acquired by Dell in 2011.

In several cases, researchers say, amateur Chinese hackers have proven
themselves even more stealthy and sophisticated than their military
counterparts. So adept are they at covering their tracks that, in some cases,
they have been able to maintain a foothold in infiltrated systems for more than
two years unnoticed.

The new research offers a reminder that despite the continued focus on hackers
at the National Security Agency and military units in Shanghai, some of the most
prolific and sophisticated attacks are still the work of individual hackers.

Dell SecureWorks would not name the victims, citing nondisclosure agreements the
company has with clients, but its report may help shed light on a string of
attacks against video game makers.

In the past year alone, Nintendo reported that it had been a victim of an attack
in which hackers managed to gain unauthorized access to a Nintendo members
reward site 23,000 times, after some 15 million attempts.

Ubisoft, based in Montreal, announced that its networks had also been hacked.
Japanese game maker Konami said hackers had tried to gain access to its systems
some 4 million times and were successful in 35,000 cases. Crytek, the game
developer, also reported a breach.

In March, a British security company discovered that an Electronic Arts server
had been hacked. And just last May, Bohemia Interactive, a Czech game developer,
confirmed that it too had been hacked after the source code for its DayZ game
appeared on a game-hacking forum.

Dell SecureWorks' researchers said that in many of the cases they had witnessed,
hackers conducted extensive reconnaissance on their victim organizations before
attacking them. They used public information to track down employees with
administrative privileges, then used so-called brute force means in which they
deployed computers to test millions of combinations of user names and passwords
to break into their accounts.

From there, they used their foothold to install malicious tools, including
remote access tools, backdoors and keystroke loggers, onto the computers of
employees who had access to video game source code.

At first, researchers said it was unclear whether hackers were stealing source
code to copy games and sell their own versions. But they were able to trace the
attacks back to two hacker aliases in China who are active in China's video game
cracking community. The researchers now believe the hackers are after the source
code to crack the games for free use, or find backdoors that would allow them to
outscore their competitors.

Researchers traced several tools back to the online alias "Laurentiu Moon," a
Chinese hacker who maintains accounts on hacking websites: one focused on mobile
phone hacking and another focused on cracking legitimate software.

Laurentiu Moon has been a member of China Cracking Group since 2009 and the
AntiGameProtect since last December. Both are dedicated to video game cracking.

Other tools were traced to another member of the China Cracking Group, with the
alias "Sincoder." Based on the individual's Weibo microblogging profile and a
Twitter account, it appears this person is based in Shenzhen, China.

Efforts to reach these individuals through their online accounts were
unsuccessful.

In some cases, researchers said, the tools and techniques these two individuals
developed were more sophisticated than many of the so-called spear phishing
attacks deployed by China's People's Liberation Army hacking units, like the
Shanghai-based Unit 61398 and aerospace hacking Unit 61486.

Rather than fire off emails to victims hoping for a click, these game hackers
used sophisticated brute force tactics to break in. Researchers found in one
case that they successfully compromised a Chinese technology company's digital
certificate - a signing mechanism used by companies to guarantee to a customer's
web browser that their site is authentic - to gain access.

Surprisingly, given the number of gamers constantly trying to crack makers'
systems, the industry has done little to share cyber threat information. A
spokesman for the Entertainment Software Association, the gaming industry's
chief lobbying group, said he was unaware of any joint efforts to curb game
hacking.

In most cases, game makers said it is up to the individual companies to protect
themselves. Dell's Counter Threat report, which lists hackers aliases and tools
and details their techniques, might offer a start.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 25, 2014 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hackers Target Games to Find Ways to Cheat

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 838 words


Hackers are breaking into American companies for credit card numbers, passwords,
trade secrets and -- it turns out -- for phony video game scores.

For the past five years, hackers inside China have been breaking into American
video game makers' systems, collecting proprietary source code in an ambitious
effort to crack the games for free use and to develop tools to cheat them,
according to research by the counter threat unit at Dell SecureWorks, a security
firm that was acquired by Dell in 2011.

In several cases, researchers say, amateur Chinese hackers have proven
themselves even more stealthy and sophisticated than their military
counterparts. So adept are they at covering their tracks that, in some cases,
they have been able to maintain a foothold in infiltrated systems for more than
two years unnoticed.

The new research offers a reminder that despite the continued focus on hackers
at the National Security Agency and military units in Shanghai, some of the most
prolific and sophisticated attacks are still the work of individual hackers.

Dell SecureWorks would not name the victims, citing nondisclosure agreements the
company has with clients, but its report may help shed light on a string of
attacks against video game makers.

In the past year alone, Nintendo reported that it had been a victim of an attack
in which hackers managed to gain unauthorized access to a Nintendo members
reward site 23,000 times, after some 15 million attempts.

Ubisoft, based in Montreuil-sous-Bois, France, announced that its networks had
also been hacked. Japanese game maker Konami said hackers had tried to gain
access to its systems some 4 million times and were successful in 35,000 cases.
Crytek, the game developer, also reported a breach.

In March, a British security company discovered that an Electronic Arts server
had been hacked. And just last May, Bohemia Interactive, a Czech game developer,
confirmed that it too had been hacked after the source code for its DayZ game
appeared on a game-hacking forum.

Dell SecureWorks' researchers said that in many of the cases they had witnessed,
hackers conducted extensive reconnaissance on their victim organizations before
attacking them. They used public information to track down employees with
administrative privileges, then used so-called brute force means in which they
deployed computers to test millions of combinations of user names and passwords
to break into their accounts.

From there, they used their foothold to install malicious tools, including
remote access tools, backdoors and keystroke loggers, onto the computers of
employees who had access to video game source code.

At first, researchers said it was unclear whether hackers were stealing source
code to copy games and sell their own versions. But they were able to trace the
attacks back to two hacker aliases in China who are active in China's video game
cracking community. The researchers now believe the hackers are after the source
code to crack the games for free use, or find backdoors that would allow them to
outscore their competitors.

Researchers traced several tools back to the online alias ''Laurentiu Moon,'' a
Chinese hacker who maintains accounts on hacking websites: one focused on mobile
phone hacking and another focused on cracking legitimate software.

Laurentiu Moon has been a member of China Cracking Group since 2009 and the
AntiGameProtect since last December. Both are dedicated to video game cracking.

Other tools were traced to another member of the China Cracking Group, with the
alias ''Sincoder.'' Based on the individual's Weibo microblogging profile and a
Twitter account, it appears this person is based in Shenzhen, China.

Efforts to reach these individuals through their online accounts were
unsuccessful.

In some cases, researchers said, the tools and techniques these two individuals
developed were more sophisticated than many of the so-called spear phishing
attacks deployed by China's People's Liberation Army hacking units, like the
Shanghai-based Unit 61398 and aerospace hacking Unit 61486.

Rather than fire off emails to victims hoping for a click, these game hackers
used sophisticated brute force tactics to break in. Researchers found in one
case that they successfully compromised a Chinese technology company's digital
certificate -- a signing mechanism used by companies to guarantee to a
customer's web browser that their site is authentic -- to gain access.

Surprisingly, given the number of gamers constantly trying to crack makers'
systems, the industry has done little to share cyber threat information. A
spokesman for the Entertainment Software Association, the gaming industry's
chief lobbying group, said he was unaware of any joint efforts to curb game
hacking.

In most cases, game makers said it is up to the individual companies to protect
themselves. Dell's Counter Threat report, which lists hackers aliases and tools
and details their techniques, might offer a start.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/08/24/hackers-target-video-games-for-fun-prof
it-and-better-scores/

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A developer at Ubisoft, which reported it had been hacked.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTINNE MUSCHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             August 25, 2014 Monday

Echoes From 15 Years Ago: Ad-Supported Services, Sluggish Speeds and More

BYLINE: ASHWIN SESHAGIRI

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 877 words



HIGHLIGHT: News from August 1999, when the tech industry was reaching the
heights of its first boom, gives many insights into today&#8217;s tech industry.
Yahoo was push ad-supported services, and consumers were complaining about
sluggish Internet speeds.


On Sunday, Claire Cain Miller transported us back to 1999, when Webvan, Kozmo
and a crop of upstarts tried their hand at perfecting delivery service. Webvan
is perhaps one of the more memorable names of this era, and it came to symbolize
the ethos that anything was possible when you put a few smart people in a room
south of San Francisco.

These companies proved to be huge flops, as their push to provide instant
gratification was tripped up by the costs of massive warehouses, delivery people
and inventory of sometimes perishable goods. For many, they were harbingers of
the dot-com bust.

That failure clearly hasn't made today's tech companies shy away from delivery
services. Delivery is back in a big way, as Giants like Amazon and a host of
start-ups are pushing their services. So it made us wonder, what else was making
news on a Monday in late August 15 years ago, and what might it teach us about
today's tech industry?

Remember Yahoo?

ORIGINAL STORY:

Obsessively Independent, Yahoo Is the Web's Switzerland

By SAUL HANSELL

A profile of Timothy A. Koogle, Yahoo's first chief executive, who recognized
soon after being hired that the biggest opportunity for the company lay in
offering a free advertising-supported service.

It's easy to forget these days, but Yahoo was long a darling of Silicon Valley.
In the early days of the web - think 1994 - Jerry Yang and and a classmate came
up with the idea of building a directory of websites while avoiding writing
their computer science dissertations at Stanford University. It would take Larry
Page and Sergey Brin two more years to come up with an idea for their search
engine, which would eventually become Google, at the same school.

Yahoo and Google are household names now, but for Yahoo, credit for its rise
could go to someone who has been all but forgotten. But many of his ideas live
on.

Timothy A. Koogle, a former fireman and machinist for the Navy, figured out how
to transform Yahoo from a novelty into a business by focusing on creating a
vibrant and free ad-supported service - a model that proliferates around the web
today.

As the dot-com boom was reaching its height, Mr. Koogle wanted to push Yahoo
beyond its core service, and had overseen the development of email, customized
news pages and chat rooms for registered users.

Despite its growth, Mr. Koogle had to confront the challenge of how to take the
Internet company into the new millennium. Chief among Mr. Koogle's efforts was
to keep Yahoo independent - the Switzerland of the Internet. That meant turning
down eager suitors, including Microsoft.

The Downside of Streaming

ORIGINAL STORY:

Multimedia Transmissions Are Driving Internet Toward Gridlock

By SARA ROBINSON

Streaming media, an increasingly popular type of traffic, is turning out to be a
cyber road hog that flouts the rules and creates traffic jams.

It's commonplace now to gripe about how quickly - or sluggishly - "House of
Cards" is being delivered to our Apple TVs. The complaint isn't entirely new.

In 1999, we didn't have Netflix to stream original programming to plasma
screens, but video and rich media was increasingly available over the Internet,
and the result was that it was causing congestion in the lanes of the
information superhighway.

Van Jacobson, chief scientist for Cisco at the time, perhaps put it best:
conventional traffic "is polite; this stuff is impolite."

From Slowing Down to Outright Stopped

ORIGINAL STORY:

Competitors and Others Woo MCI Customers Hit by Failure

By MATT RICHTEL

Dozens of Internet service providers who were hit by blackouts or slowdowns
during a 10-day partial failure of MCI Worldcom's high-speed network have been
approached by industrious competitors hoping to steal them away.

Speed of service wasn't the only issue facing consumers and providers in 1999. A
partial failure of high-speed internet access offered by MCI, a major
telecommunications company at the time, put almost a third of its customers
offline. Smaller Internet providers saw the service interruption as an
opportunity to steal some market share.

What's in a Name?

ORIGINAL STORY:

Upstart Takes Advantage of Uncertainties in Internet Naming Business

By JERI CLAUSING

A feature on Register.com, the first and most aggressive player in the game of
breaking up the monopoly on Internet address registrations that a Virginia
company, Network Solutions Inc., enjoyed for six years.

Rules for who got to sell you a domain name were being written in 1999.

For much of the 1990s, Network Solutions, a Herndon, Va.-based company, had the
monopoly on registrations for websites. You had to go to them if you wanted to
have the next Cars.com or Lycos.com. But all that was going to change.

The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, or Icann, the nonprofit
corporation charged with introducing competition into the business of
registering names ending in the popular domains of .com, .net and .org, was
beginning to put in place policies that would allow others to become
gatekeepers.

Enter Register.com. It was the first of five companies selected to provide
competition to Network Solutions.

Now, of course, one challenge facing start-ups is finding a name that isn't
already taken. That challenge has led to some silly results.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (Op-Talk)

                           August 27, 2014 Wednesday

Is NATO a Bulwark in Need of Reform or a Relic?

BYLINE: HANNA KOZLOWSKA

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1021 words



HIGHLIGHT: Before the NATO summit in Wales, analysts are calling for
comprehensive reform of the organization in the face of 21st-century challenges.
But some observers wonder if it is still needed at all.


The coming NATO summit in Wales in September has inspired a hotly contested
debate about the organization's fitness for the 21st century - and even if
should exist at all.

Many observers are calling for a comprehensive reform, calling it inadequate and
outdated, unable to deal with the challenges of today's world, especially
Russia's military adventurism in Ukraine.

But some commentators in the United States question the alliance's necessity and
warn that the country should not involve itself in conflicts in Eastern Europe,
a region that they see as irrelevant to the security of the United States.

The reformers include James G. Stavridis, a retired admiral and NATO's top
commander from 2009 to 2013, who outlined his prescriptions at Foreign Policy,
as well as Anne Applebaum, who described a similar plan at The Washington Post.

With Russia's aggression in Ukraine, one focus is on redefining NATO's
relationship with Russia. Admiral Stavridis would like to see a "more robust
force posture" in the region, including NATO boots on the ground, "an aggressive
exercise program," continuing the implementation of a missile defense system,
maritime deployments in the region and support for the Ukrainian military.

Ms. Applebaum suggests that President Barack Obama could create a lasting legacy
in the last two years of his presidency by reforming the organization. He could
"rewrite" the NATO treaty, or at least "restructure it," so that it "functions
like a living organism," instead of a remnant of the Cold War.

He has the power to do that, Ms. Applebaum writes. "He has all of the cards -
the United States contributes three-quarters of NATO's budget - as well as the
ultimate argument: If the Western alliance, as currently constituted, no longer
wants to defend itself, America can always leave."

NATO should carry out "annual exercises" like it did during the Cold War, writes
Ms. Applebaum. "It's time to rehearse our reaction to a Crimean-style Russian
invasion of Latvia, led not by regular troops but by 'little green men'
pretending to be local Russians."

In an article for The Boston Globe, Admiral Stavridis and Dave Weinstein, a
former strategic planner at United States Cyber Command, wrote about the threat
of cyberwarfare from Russia. "Cyberspace has rapidly emerged as an attractive
alternative for nations to pursue military objectives," he writes, calling for a
clause in the NATO treaty that would seek to deter cyberattacks.

Both Ms. Applebaum and Admiral Stavridis call on European nations to spend more
on defense, "at a minimum hitting their self-stated goal of 2 percent of
G.D.P.," Admiral Stavridis writes, pointing out that only a "handful" of nations
hit even that goal.

"Some Europeans don't want to pay for their defense? Maybe those who want to be
covered by Article 5, the alliance's security guarantee, should now be obligated
to pay," writes Ms. Applebaum.

However, Admiral Stavridis notes that the alliance should seek zones of
cooperation with Russia.

John Bolton, a former ambassador to the United Nations under President George W.
Bush, writes at The Los Angeles Times that Washington should revive fast-track
plans for membership in the organization for Ukraine. "The U.S. would eliminate
the zone of ambiguity between the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and Russia
that Putin is exploiting, even if Obama's flaccid leadership has tragically lost
Crimea for good."

This kind of deterrence, Mr. Bolton writes, has been effective since NATO's
creation and should now be used to prevent future Russian aggression.

Other officials who served in past administrations emphasized another aspect of
deterrence - the classic Cold War nuclear argument, which they say is as
relevant as ever.

"The newer members joined NATO in large part to get under this nuclear
umbrella," Brent Scowcroft, Stephen J. Hadley and Franklin Miller write at The
Washington Post, and these countries are concerned about the possibility of the
United States withdrawing its nuclear weapons.

With an unpredictable Russia, they write, "this is no time to destabilize the
NATO alliance and traumatize our NATO allies by withdrawing our nuclear weapons
from Europe."

But other observers argue for retrenchment from the alliance.

Doug Bandow at theCato Institute writes that the push to expand NATO is
"strikingly misguided," because "the end of the Cold War eliminated the reason
for creating the alliance."

Daniel Larison offers a critique of Ms. Applebaum's argument at The American
Conservative, underlining that "no one in Europe or in Washington would take it
seriously." The United States can complain all it wants about its allies' subpar
contributions to NATO, but "the message always falls on deaf ears," Mr. Larison
writes.

He says that instead of taking an assertive stance of "forcing the allies to do
more to provide for their own security by reducing how much the U.S. does for
them," the United States quickly reassures them "that they won't have to do
more," which is why the country continues to bear most of the costs.

Russian officials naturally see the organization as an outdated, unnecessary
threat. NATO is seeking "a new reason to exist," said Sergei Lavrov, the Russian
foreign minister, earlier this month. Alexander Grushko, Russia's envoy to NATO,

 addedthat the supposed threat from Russia is an excuse to "build up the eastern
flank" and increase military spending. NATO is trying to "prove the alliance
necessary."

To Mr. Bandow, NATO candidate states, and especially Ukraine, are irrelevant for
United States security. "While Ukraine's status is largely of theoretical
interest to America, Russia views its connection to the former Soviet republic
to be of critical security importance." He writes that Europe should take care
of its own security.  "NATO is a military alliance, not a social club."

Mr. Larison also questions Ms. Applebaum's idea of a "legacy" proposal.
"Promoting foreign policy ideas with talk of how it will help a president's
'legacy' is a good way to encourage presidents to pursue unrealistic goals that
expose them to a lot of unnecessary political risk."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 30, 2014 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fighting Credit Card Fraud

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 195 words


To the Editor:

The payments industry and our merchant customers are deploying sophisticated
tools, like new chip-enabled credit and debit cards, that further the fight
against fraud (''A Better Credit Card,'' editorial, Aug. 24). Although chip
cards address the most common form of fraud -- counterfeit credit cards
--increasingly sophisticated cyber thieves are attacking online commerce and, as
with Target and other high-profile retail breaches, installing malware on
brick-and-mortar retailers' own systems.

We are countering these threats with new tokenization technologies, which
replace transmission of account information with single-use tokens that cannot
be intercepted. We are deploying end-to-end encryption technology so retailers
can secure all points of entry into systems that store financial information.

Card fraud in the United States today represents a fraction of 1 percent of the
$4.9 trillion in payments volume, and consumers have zero fraud liability. But
to stay ahead of the criminals, payments companies and retailers are working
together to stamp out fraud.

JASON OXMAN Chief Executive Electronic Transactions Association Washington, Aug.
25, 2014

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/30/opinion/fighting-credit-card-fraud.html

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Opinionator)

                            August 30, 2014 Saturday

Losing Our Touch

BYLINE: RICHARD KEARNEY

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1317 words



HIGHLIGHT: As sex and social life go virtual, our ability to know the world, and
each other, through touch is at risk.


Are we losing our senses? In our increasingly virtual world, are we losing touch
with the sense of touch itself? And if so, so what?

I recently had occasion to pose these questions to students in a college class I
teach on eros - "from Plato to today." Not surprisingly, the topic of physical
contact and sex came up, and the conversation turned very much to "today." A
number of the students said that they regularly messaged online before having
"real contact" with partners, perhaps using online dating and mating services
like Match.com, OkCupid, SpeedDate.com and Tinder. They shared messaging
acronyms that signaled their level of willingness to have sex, and under what
conditions. They admitted to enjoying the relative anonymity of the one-off
"hook up," whose consummation required no preliminary close-quarters courtship
rites or flirtation ceremonies, no culinary seduction, no caress, nothing -
apart from the eventual "blind rut," as James Joyce put it - requiring the
presence of a functioning, sensitive body.

We noted the rather obvious paradox: The ostensible immediacy of sexual contact
was in fact mediated digitally. And it was also noted that what is often thought
of as a "materialist" culture was arguably the most "immaterialist" culture
imaginable - vicarious, by proxy, and often voyeuristic.

Is today's virtual dater and mater something like an updated version of Plato's
Gyges, who could see everything at a distance but was touched by nothing? Are we
perhaps entering an age of "excarnation," where we obsess about the body in
increasingly disembodied ways? For if incarnation is the image become flesh,
excarnation is flesh become image. Incarnation invests flesh; excarnation
divests it.

In perhaps the first great works of human psychology, the "De Anima," Aristotle
pronounced touch the most universal of the senses. Even when we are asleep we
are susceptible to changes in temperature and noise. Our bodies are always "on."
And touch is the most intelligent sense, Aristotle explained, because it is the
most sensitive. When we touch someone or something we are exposed to what we
touch. We are responsive to others because we are constantly in touch with them.

"Touch knows differences," Aristotle insisted. It is the source of our most
basic power to discriminate. The thin-skinned person is sensitive and
intelligent; the thick-skinned, coarse and ignorant. Think of Odysseus and the
Cyclops, Jacob and Esau. The power of touch. Even the Buddha, when challenged by
Mara to reveal his authority, simply touches the ground. Our first intelligence
is sensory refinement. And this primal sensibility is also what places us at
risk in the world, exposing us to adventure and discovery.

Aristotle was challenging the dominant prejudice of his time, one he himself
embraced in earlier works. The Platonic doctrine of the Academy held that sight
was the highest sense, because it is the most distant and mediated; hence most
theoretical, holding things at bay, mastering meaning from above. Touch, by
contrast, was deemed the lowest sense because it is ostensibly immediate and
thus subject to intrusions and pressures from the material world. Against this,
Aristotle made his radical counterclaim that touch did indeed have a medium,
namely "flesh." And he insisted that flesh was not just some material organ but
a complex mediating membrane that accounts for our primary sensings and
evaluations.

Tactility is not blind immediacy - not merely sensorial but cognitive, too.
Savoring is wisdom; in Latin, wisdom is "sapientia," from "sapere," to taste.
These carnal senses make us human by keeping us in touch with things, by
responding to people's pain - as when the disguised Odysseus (whose name can be
translated as "bearer of pain,"), returning to Ithaca, is recognized by his
nursemaid, Eurycleia, at the touch of his childhood scar.

But Aristotle did not win this battle of ideas. The Platonists prevailed and the
Western universe became a system governed by "the soul's eye." Sight came to
dominate the hierarchy of the senses, and was quickly deemed the appropriate
ally of theoretical ideas. Western philosophy thus sprang from a dualism between
the intellectual senses, crowned by sight, and the lower "animal" senses,
stigmatized by touch. And Western theology - though heralding the Christian
message of Incarnation ("word made flesh") - all too often confirmed the
injurious dichotomy with its anti-carnal doctrines; prompting Nietzsche's
verdict that Christianity was "Platonism for the people" and "gave Eros poison
to drink." Thus opto-centrism prevailed for over 2,000 years, culminating in our
contemporary culture of digital simulation and spectacle. The eye continues to
rule in what Roland Barthes once called our "civilization of the image." The
world is no longer our oyster, but our screen.

For all the fascination with bodies, our current technology is arguably
exacerbating our carnal alienation. While offering us enormous freedoms of
fantasy and encounter, digital eros may also be removing us further from the
flesh.

Pornography, for example, is now an industry worth tens of billions of dollars
worldwide. Seen by some as a progressive sign of post-60s sexual liberation,
pornography is, paradoxically, a twin of Puritanism. Both display an alienation
from flesh - one replacing it with the virtuous, the other with the virtual.
Each is out of touch with the body.

THIS movement toward privatization and virtuality is explored in Spike Jonze's
recent movie "Her," where a man falls in love with his operating system, which
names itself Samantha. He can think of nothing else and becomes insanely jealous
when he discovers that his virtual lover, Samantha, is also flirting with
thousands of other subscribers. Eventually, Samantha feels so bad for him that
she decides to supplement her digital persona with a real body by sending a
surrogate lover. But the plan fails miserably - while the man touches the
embodied lover he hears the virtual signals of Samantha in his ears and cannot
bridge the gap. The split between digital absence and carnal presence is
unbearable. Something is missing: love in the flesh.

The move toward excarnation is apparent in what is becoming more and more a
fleshless society. In medicine, "bedside manner" and hand on pulse has ceded to
the anonymous technologies of imaging in diagnosis and treatment. In war,
hand-to-hand combat has been replaced by "targeted killing" via
remote-controlled drones. If contemporary warfare renders us invulnerable to
those who cannot touch us, can we make peace without a hand to shake? (Think of
Mandela-de Klerk or Begin-Sadat).

Moreover, certain cyber engineers now envisage implanting transmission codes in
brains so that we will not have to move a finger - or come into contact with
another human being - to get what we want. The touch screen replaces touch
itself. The cosmos shrinks to a private monitor; each viewer a disembodied self
unto itself.

Full humanity requires the ability to sense and be sensed in turn: the power, as
Shakespeare said, to "feel what wretches feel" - or, one might also add, what
artists, cooks, musicians and lovers feel. We need to find our way in a tactile
world again. We need to return from head to foot, from brain to fingertip, from
iCloud to earth. To close the distance, so that eros is more about proximity
than proxy. So that soul becomes flesh, where it belongs. Such a move, I submit,
would radically alter our "sense" of sex in our digital civilization. It would
enhance the role of empathy, vulnerability and sensitivity in the art of carnal
love, and ideally, in all of human relations. Because to love or be loved truly
is to be able to say, "I have been touched."

Richard Kearney is a philosophy professor at Boston College whose books include
"The Wake of Imagination" and the forthcoming "Carnal Hermeneutics."

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 31, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Does Where You Live Make a Difference in How and What You Write?

BYLINE: By MOHSIN HAMID and THOMAS MALLON

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; BOOKENDS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1424 words


Each week in Bookends, two writers take on questions about the world of books.
This week, Mohsin Hamid and Thomas Mallon discuss how where they've lived has
affected their work.

By Mohsin Hamid

J. R. R. Tolkien's ''The Hobbit'' might have read a little differently had he
been a resident of Osaka instead of Oxfordshire.

Last March I went for a walk in St. Louis with the novelist Curtis Sittenfeld.
Both of us had lived for a while on the left and right coasts of the United
States, and both of us now inhabited riverine cities in the middle of great
continental landmasses: St. Louis in her case, Lahore in mine.

We strolled in the crisp Missouri twilight, pausing at an all-you-can-eat sushi
joint, and there, in the presence of remarkably few other diners, Curtis and I
found we had things in common. We were attached to the cities we lived in. We
had two kids each, around the same ages. We reckoned St. Louis and Lahore were
good places to raise them. We rarely met ''colleagues'' unless we -- or they --
were traveling. We appreciated a slow pace of daily life as conducive to writing
(and forgiving of procrastination). We had spouses for whom our hometowns were
professionally rewarding. And we planned to stay put -- or at least we had no
plans not to stay put.

Curtis would, therefore, probably become more and more a St. Louisan writer, and
I would probably become more and more a Lahori one. But what did that mean?

It seems obvious that where we live shapes how and what we write. I suspect
Nadine Gordimer might not have written ''July's People'' had she not lived in
South Africa. And J. R. R. Tolkien's ''The Hobbit'' might have read a little
differently had he been a resident of Osaka instead of Oxfordshire.

Places do things to you. Since I moved back to Lahore from London five years
ago, I've attended a funeral for a family friend who was assassinated; seen
3,000 eager young people try to cram into a 1,000-seat auditorium for a 9 a.m.
lecture (not mine) at a literary festival; had windows blown in by a gas
explosion at a nearby restaurant; inherited a Jack Russell terrier from an
uncle; met bootleggers whose round-the-clock home-delivery service puts that of
New York City drug dealers to shame; and been grilled on my reading tastes by an
audiologist's assistant.

More on the last. I wandered into an appointment for an audiogram the other day
with a copy of George R. R. Martin's ''A Game of Thrones'' under my arm --
reliably thrilling stuff for an unreliably long wait. The audiologist's
assistant was youthful, and seeing the book, and asking what I did, she
proceeded to explain her preferences (Urdu novels, mostly romances) and then
challenged me to name three English novels that wouldn't bore her, including one
of mine, which I did, and which she wrote down.

I think I meet more readers in Lahore than I did when I lived in New York or
London. Most of my friends in New York and London did read fiction. But many of
them wrote it, too. Or edited it. Or agented it. Or publicized it. Or hung out
with lots of folks who did. So they were readers, but they weren't readers --
they weren't civilians, so to speak. When they discussed fiction, they did so as
insiders. In Lahore, I rarely bump into readers who think of themselves as
insiders. And when I discuss books, I'm much more likely to find myself
discussing pleasure. It's like being a chemist who's stumbled into a field of
people tripping on LSD.

What all this will do to my writing, I have no idea. The soil in Lahore is rich:
fertile alluvial sediment from thousands of years of plains-flooding by the now
dammed and dead river Ravi. I've been planting trees in that soil all around my
house: neem, gulmohar, amaltas.

Sometimes they take, and in a year they're twice my height. Other times they
wither, and by next season they're gone.

Mohsin Hamid is the author of three novels: ''Moth Smoke,'' a finalist for the
PEN/Hemingway Award; ''The Reluctant Fundamentalist,'' a New York Times best
seller that was shortlisted for the Man Booker Prize and adapted for film; and,
most recently, ''How to Get Filthy Rich in Rising Asia.''

â--+ â--+ â--+

By Thomas Mallon

All literary terrain is the seacoast of Bohemia, a geography mixed from physical
fact and imaginative distortion.

When I moved to Washington, D.C., 11 years ago, I had the sense I was making an
almost marital commitment to subject matter that, up to then, I'd been only
''involved with.'' Even so, I didn't know that I would end up setting parts of a
novel in my own Foggy Bottom house, let alone that the book after that one would
be called ''Watergate'' -- named for the scandal but sparked by the spiraling
complex of apartments and offices I now saw every time I looked up from my desk
and out the window.

At the time, a mutual friend told me he'd mentioned my relocation to Gore Vidal,
whom I used to edit at GQ, and that the response had been: ''It'll be the death
of him as a novelist.'' The prediction was offered as sympathetic caution
against the particular imaginative drag Vidal thought the capital exercised on
anyone's fiction-making capacities. I recalled the warning not long ago, with a
certain relief, when my editor, even more than usually supportive, assured me
that moving to Washington was the smartest thing I'd done.

To some degree, all literary terrain is the seacoast of Bohemia, a geography
mixed from physical fact and imaginative distortion. Kafka never actually put a
foot inside his Amerika, but for extended fictional enterprises set in a single
place, the writer should probably be rooted. One wouldn't take Booth Tarkington
out of Indiana any more than one would remove Proust from Paris. In our own
time, Allan Gurganus doesn't just live in the same sort of North Carolina town
he was born into and writes about; he makes it his business to keep sprucing up
the old graveyard next to his house. His most recent book is ''Local Souls,'' a
title that reminds us of the axiom, perhaps most often cited in the case of
Joyce, that the really universal truths are always the most parochial. And yet,
Joyce wrote the most local novel of all time not in Dublin but in Trieste and
Zurich and Paris.

Still, I like my writers, especially my writer friends, to stay where they're
''supposed'' to be. I was oddly relieved when James Ellroy returned to Los
Angeles after some years in both Kansas City and Northern California, and while
I rejoice at the possibility of Patricia Hampl's spending more time in the East,
I also fret at the thought of her ever permanently leaving St. Paul, a city that
since Scott Fitzgerald hasn't truly belonged to any writer but her.

Some authors need to get away to get started, to have their Quentin Compsonian
love/hate moment for the place from which they've sprung themselves. Willa
Cather and Mark Twain and Joan Didion were really able to write about Nebraska
and Missouri and California once they reached cities far from home. Of course,
such writers will be warned that if they stay away too long, they'll lose an ear
for how ''their'' people really speak -- and there's some truth to this.

Sometimes, of course, a vivid foray into a foreign place -- an extended stay in
extraordinary circumstances -- will give a writer experience that he can pack up
for later brewing back home, a strong foreign coffee to be drunk at his own
desk: Forster's time in India, let's say; or Mailer's war days in the South
Pacific. On the other hand, permanent exile, like hanging, can concentrate the
mind. Conrad came fully alive when he lost himself in another land and language.

When the cyber revolution first took hold 20 years ago, none of us realized how
much time we'd all be spending in the Cloud, that vast nowhere in which
everyone's a ''friend.'' Amid so much virtual reality, the actual, geographical
kind, whether we're at home or abroad, begins to feel more necessary. The
localized book has outlived the local bookstore.

Thomas Mallon's eight novels include ''Henry and Clara,'' ''Bandbox,'' ''Fellow
Travelers'' and ''Watergate,'' a finalist for the PEN/Faulkner Award. He has
also published nonfiction about plagiarism (''Stolen Words''), diaries (''A Book
of One's Own''), letters (''Yours Ever'') and the Kennedy assassination (''Mrs.
Paine's Garage''), as well as two books of essays. His work appears in The New
Yorker, The Atlantic Monthly and other publications. A recipient of the Vursell
prize of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, for distinguished prose
style, he is currently professor of English at George Washington University.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/31/books/review/does-where-you-live-make-a-differ
ence-in-how-and-what-you-write.html

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY  R. KIKUO JOHNSON)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 31, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Losing Our Touch

BYLINE: By RICHARD KEARNEY

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1351 words


Are we losing our senses? In our increasingly virtual world, are we losing touch
with the sense of touch itself? And if so, so what?

I recently had occasion to pose these questions to students in a college class I
teach on eros -- ''from Plato to today.'' Not surprisingly, the topic of
physical contact and sex came up, and the conversation turned very much to
''today.'' A number of the students said that they regularly messaged online
before having ''real contact'' with partners, perhaps using online dating and
mating services like Match.com, OkCupid, SpeedDate.com and Tinder. They shared
messaging acronyms that signaled their level of willingness to have sex, and
under what conditions. They admitted to enjoying the relative anonymity of the
one-off ''hook up,'' whose consummation required no preliminary close-quarters
courtship rites or flirtation ceremonies, no culinary seduction, no caress,
nothing -- apart from the eventual ''blind rut,'' as James Joyce put it --
requiring the presence of a functioning, sensitive body.

We noted the rather obvious paradox: The ostensible immediacy of sexual contact
was in fact mediated digitally. And it was also noted that what is often thought
of as a ''materialist'' culture was arguably the most ''immaterialist'' culture
imaginable -- vicarious, by proxy, and often voyeuristic.

Is today's virtual dater and mater something like an updated version of Plato's
Gyges, who could see everything at a distance but was touched by nothing? Are we
perhaps entering an age of ''excarnation,'' where we obsess about the body in
increasingly disembodied ways? For if incarnation is the image become flesh,
excarnation is flesh become image. Incarnation invests flesh; excarnation
divests it.

In perhaps the first great works of human psychology, the ''De Anima,''
Aristotle pronounced touch the most universal of the senses. Even when we are
asleep we are susceptible to changes in temperature and noise. Our bodies are
always ''on.'' And touch is the most intelligent sense, Aristotle explained,
because it is the most sensitive. When we touch someone or something we are
exposed to what we touch. We are responsive to others because we are constantly
in touch with them.

''Touch knows differences,'' Aristotle insisted. It is the source of our most
basic power to discriminate. The thin-skinned person is sensitive and
intelligent; the thick-skinned, coarse and ignorant. Think of Odysseus and the
Cyclops, Jacob and Esau. The power of touch. Even the Buddha, when challenged by
Mara to reveal his authority, simply touches the ground. Our first intelligence
is sensory refinement. And this primal sensibility is also what places us at
risk in the world, exposing us to adventure and discovery.

Aristotle was challenging the dominant prejudice of his time, one he himself
embraced in earlier works. The Platonic doctrine of the Academy held that sight
was the highest sense, because it is the most distant and mediated; hence most
theoretical, holding things at bay, mastering meaning from above. Touch, by
contrast, was deemed the lowest sense because it is ostensibly immediate and
thus subject to intrusions and pressures from the material world. Against this,
Aristotle made his radical counterclaim that touch did indeed have a medium,
namely ''flesh.'' And he insisted that flesh was not just some material organ
but a complex mediating membrane that accounts for our primary sensings and
evaluations.

Tactility is not blind immediacy -- not merely sensorial but cognitive, too.
Savoring is wisdom; in Latin, wisdom is ''sapientia,'' from ''sapere,'' to
taste. These carnal senses make us human by keeping us in touch with things, by
responding to people's pain -- as when the disguised Odysseus (whose name can be
translated as ''bearer of pain,''), returning to Ithaca, is recognized by his
nursemaid, Eurycleia, at the touch of his childhood scar.

But Aristotle did not win this battle of ideas. The Platonists prevailed and the
Western universe became a system governed by ''the soul's eye.'' Sight came to
dominate the hierarchy of the senses, and was quickly deemed the appropriate
ally of theoretical ideas. Western philosophy thus sprang from a dualism between
the intellectual senses, crowned by sight, and the lower ''animal'' senses,
stigmatized by touch. And Western theology -- though heralding the Christian
message of Incarnation (''word made flesh'') -- all too often confirmed the
injurious dichotomy with its anti-carnal doctrines; prompting Nietzsche's
verdict that Christianity was ''Platonism for the people'' and ''gave Eros
poison to drink.'' Thus opto-centrism prevailed for over 2,000 years,
culminating in our contemporary culture of digital simulation and spectacle. The
eye continues to rule in what Roland Barthes once called our ''civilization of
the image.'' The world is no longer our oyster, but our screen.

For all the fascination with bodies, our current technology is arguably
exacerbating our carnal alienation. While offering us enormous freedoms of
fantasy and encounter, digital eros may also be removing us further from the
flesh.

Pornography, for example, is now an industry worth tens of billions of dollars
worldwide. Seen by some as a progressive sign of post-60s sexual liberation,
pornography is, paradoxically, a twin of Puritanism. Both display an alienation
from flesh -- one replacing it with the virtuous, the other with the virtual.
Each is out of touch with the body.

THIS movement toward privatization and virtuality is explored in Spike Jonze's
recent movie ''Her,'' where a man falls in love with his operating system, which
names itself Samantha. He can think of nothing else and becomes insanely jealous
when he discovers that his virtual lover, Samantha, is also flirting with
thousands of other subscribers. Eventually, Samantha feels so bad for him that
she decides to supplement her digital persona with a real body by sending a
surrogate lover. But the plan fails miserably -- while the man touches the
embodied lover he hears the virtual signals of Samantha in his ears and cannot
bridge the gap. The split between digital absence and carnal presence is
unbearable. Something is missing: love in the flesh.

The move toward excarnation is apparent in what is becoming more and more a
fleshless society. In medicine, ''bedside manner'' and hand on pulse has ceded
to the anonymous technologies of imaging in diagnosis and treatment. In war,
hand-to-hand combat has been replaced by ''targeted killing'' via
remote-controlled drones. If contemporary warfare renders us invulnerable to
those who cannot touch us, can we make peace without a hand to shake? (Think of
Mandela-de Klerk or Begin-Sadat).

Moreover, certain cyber engineers now envisage implanting transmission codes in
brains so that we will not have to move a finger -- or come into contact with
another human being -- to get what we want. The touch screen replaces touch
itself. The cosmos shrinks to a private monitor; each viewer a disembodied self
unto itself.

Full humanity requires the ability to sense and be sensed in turn: the power, as
Shakespeare said, to ''feel what wretches feel'' -- or, one might also add, what
artists, cooks, musicians and lovers feel. We need to find our way in a tactile
world again. We need to return from head to foot, from brain to fingertip, from
iCloud to earth. To close the distance, so that eros is more about proximity
than proxy. So that soul becomes flesh, where it belongs. Such a move, I submit,
would radically alter our ''sense'' of sex in our digital civilization. It would
enhance the role of empathy, vulnerability and sensitivity in the art of carnal
love, and ideally, in all of human relations. Because to love or be loved truly
is to be able to say, ''I have been touched.''

Richard Kearney is a philosophy professor at Boston College whose books include
''The Wake of Imagination'' and the forthcoming ''Carnal Hermeneutics.''

This is an essay from The Stone, a philosophy series at nytimes.com
/opinionator.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/08/30/losing-our-touch/

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JESSE DRAXLER)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 1, 2014 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

In New Pledge, NATO Nations Would Band Together Against Cyberattacks

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1060 words


BRUSSELS -- When President Obama meets with other NATO leaders later this week,
they are expected to ratify what seems, at first glance, a far-reaching change
in the organization's mission of collective defense: For the first time, a
cyberattack on any of the 28 NATO nations could be declared an attack on all of
them, much like a ground invasion or an airborne bombing.

The most obvious target of the new policy is Russia, which was believed behind
computer attacks that disrupted financial and telecommunications systems in
Estonia in 2007 and Georgia in 2008, and is believed to have used them in the
early days of the Ukraine crisis as well.

But in interviews, NATO officials concede that so far their cyberskills are
limited at best.

While NATO has built a gleaming new computer security center, and now routinely
runs computer exercises, it possesses no cyberweapons of its own -- and,
apparently, no strategy for how it might use the weapons of member states to
strike back in a computer conflict. In fact, its most powerful members, led by
the United States and Britain, have spent billions of dollars on secret computer
offensive programs -- but they have declined so far to tell NATO leaders what
kind of weapons they might contribute in a NATO-led computer conflict.

''Our mandate is pure cyberdefense,'' Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the departing NATO
secretary general, said during a visit to Washington over the summer. ''Our
declaration is a start,'' he said, ''but I cannot tell you it is a complete
strategy.''

NATO's tentative steps into the realm of computer conflict, at a moment when
Russian, Chinese and Iranian ''patriotic hackers'' have run increasingly
sophisticated campaigns, show the alliance's troubles in innovating to keep up
with modern warfare, at a moment when it is also facing one of its greatest
political challenges since the end of the Cold War.

The change in NATO's definition of an ''armed attack'' will leave deliberately
unclear what would constitute a cyberattack so large that the alliance might
declare that the action against one of its members could lead to response by the
entire alliance under Article V of its charter. ''The judgment will lay with the
impact,'' said Douglas E. Lute, the American ambassador to NATO, when he spoke
in late July at the Aspen Security Forum. ''Does it look like it will rise to
the level of an armed attack?''

Deterrence is all about ambiguity, and the implicit threat that NATO would enter
a computer conflict in defense of one of its members is full of those
ambiguities. ''They fail to get to the heart of the quintessential question
about NATO's cybersecurity obligations,'' Julianne Smith, a former Pentagon
official, now at the Center for a New American Security, wrote earlier this year
for Chatham House, the British foreign policy center. ''What constitutes an
'attack' and what capabilities might be provided to a member experiencing an
attack?''

Here at NATO headquarters, where top officials who were focusing on computer
issues for the summit meeting are now preoccupied by Russia's next moves, the
mere declaration itself is considered significant progress. It was only after
the Estonia attacks that the alliance paid real attention to the threat. Today
Estonia, which President Obama will visit starting Tuesday night, has become the
crown jewel in NATO's computer defense efforts, the place where cyberstrategy is
developed and the site of annual NATO computer security exercises, called
''Locked Shields.''

In interviews, officials said that the declaration that would be ratified this
week -- it was already embraced by NATO defense ministers in June -- marks a
long-delayed recognition that a NATO nation could be crippled without a shot
being fired. In 2010 the NATO council rejected the proposal that a computer
attack on a nation's electric grid or its financial systems might prove so
damaging it should be considered the equivalent of a conventional, armed attack.
(NATO has only invoked Article V -- the declaration that it would come to the
aid of a member state -- one time, after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the
United States, and the Bush administration largely waved away the offer of
help.)

''They just weren't ready to think about cyberattacks in 2010,'' recalled Ivo H.
Daalder, the American ambassador to NATO during Mr. Obama's first term and now
president of the Chicago Council on Global Affairs. ''It's a measure of how far
we've come on this issue that there's now a consensus that a cyberattack could
be as devastating as any other kind of attack, maybe even more so.''

But Mr. Daalder noted that NATO's own ability to defend against computer attacks
is ''still pretty basic,'' and it has no ability to execute a ''forward
defense'' that involves going into an adversary's computer systems and shutting
down an attack.

''They could leave that to member states,'' he said, but would handle it under a
NATO chain of command. Yet the NATO members themselves, he noted, may have
little understanding of what the United States, Britain or other larger computer
powers were able to do.

In fact, NATO officials say they have never been briefed on the abilities of the
National Security Agency and United States Cyber Command, or those of the
Government Communications Headquarters, its British equivalent. Both countries
have routinely placed sensors into computers, switching centers and undersea
cables for years, as the documents released by Edward J. Snowden, the former
National Security Agency contractor, make clear.

The idea is to see an attack massing, and, if the president so ordered, to be
able to take out a foreign computer server, or network, to halt an attack. But
NATO officials ended up reading press accounts and the Snowden documents in
search of an understanding of how the United States conducted computer
operations against Iran, or how it monitors hacking units of China's People's
Liberation Army.

''If conventional war or nuclear war were to break out,'' one senior NATO
official said in an interview here, ''there are detailed plans about how we
would respond, and what capabilities are at the disposal of the NATO military
structure. We don't have that in the cyberrealm,'' he said, in large part
because the United States, Britain and Germany do not want many of the other
NATO members to understand what kind of abilities they have.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/01/world/europe/nato-set-to-ratify-pledge-on-join
t-defense-in-case-of-major-cyberattack.html

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the NATO secretary general, said the
pact was a start, ''but I cannot tell you it is a complete strategy.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY YVES HERMAN/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Sinosphere)

                            September 5, 2014 Friday

Weighing in on Paid Interethnic Marriages in Xinjiang

BYLINE: EDWARD WONG

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1035 words



HIGHLIGHT: In an effort to defuse ethnic tensions, a county in a Western region
of China is trying to encourage marriage between Uighurs and Han by offering
cash and other incentives. Two experts put the efforts into context.


This week, The New York Times reported on officials in a county in the western
region of Xinjiang offering cash and other incentives to encourage more
interethnic marriages, with the goal of defusing ethnic tensions. Many Chinese
officials are concerned about increasingly violent conflicts between Uighurs, a
Turkic-speaking, mostly Muslim people who populate large parts of Xinjiang, and
the Han, the dominant ethnicity in China. At a two-day work forum on Xinjiang in
May, President Xi Jinping called for new policies to better assimilate Uighurs
into mainstream Chinese society.

The economic rewards for mixed marriages are being offered in Cherchen County,
known as Qiemo in Chinese, to any couple that includes one Han and one member
from any of China's 55 ethnic minorities. According to official statistics, the
10,000 people in this county along the old southern Silk Road and east of the
Kunlun Mountains are 73 percent Uighur and 27 percent Han.

Throughout China, Uighurs and Han have among the lowest rates of interethnic
marriage, with 1 percent of Uighurs and 1.5 percent of Han living in an
interethnic household, according to data from a 2000 census.

The new policy was announced by Cherchen County officials in a statement posted
on Aug. 26 on a government website. After a flurry of Chinese and foreign news
reports, the announcement was removed from the website on Wednesday evening.

Two scholars who have examined ethnic policies in Xinjiang and other parts of
China shared their thoughts on the new initiative with The Times by email.

James A. Millward, professor of intersocietal history at the Walsh School of
Foreign Service and department of history at Georgetown University in
Washington:

In recent years, there has been a good deal of new thinking among Chinese
scholars who advise Chinese Communist Party leaders that some kind of change is
needed in the highly institutionalized state system by which China administrates
different ethnic groups. Some of these ideas are reflected in the recent and
highly unusual Central Work Forum on Xinjiang (May 2014), which in addition to
discussing the usual plans for economic development in Xinjiang and promising
harsh measures to eliminate religious extremists and separatists, also stressed
measures to "strengthen inter-ethnic contact, exchange and mingling." This new
language suggests that the CCP recognizes that in addition to nefarious "outside
forces" and Islamic cyber-extremism, some of the problems in Xinjiang stem from
deep tensions between Han and Uyghur ethnic groups. Efforts at encouraging more
contact, exchanges and interaction seem aimed at addressing the deterioration in
relations between these groups, a deterioration which was greatly exacerbated by
ethnic riots in 2009 and subsequent violence between Uyghurs and police, as well
as by recent terrorist attacks.

Other discussions and new terminology - "ethnic blending" or "fusion" - suggest
that Chinese policy-makers are thinking more broadly than even that. Recently,
scholars and leaders have begun to use a new rhetoric to talk about China's
multiethnic reality. Rather than the old language (China is a state made up of
56 different and distinct "nationalities," or minzu), the new approach stresses
that there are different "ethnicities" in China, but all are one "Chinese
people," the Zhonghua people - using a different word than "Han" ("Han" refers
to the Chinese-speaking majority of China, and is often translated as "Chinese"
in English, in contrast to Tibetan, Uyghur, Mongol and so on). Whereas old
rhetoric and policies stressed distinctiveness between different groups in
China, then, the new language encourages or suggests erasure of those
distinctions.

It's in this context that we should see the new trial program of cash and other
incentives offered to "mixed-race" Han-Uyghur or Han-Mongol married couples in
parts of Xinjiang. Intermarriage between Han and Uyghurs has been almost
non-existent. It seems that some leaders want to see if these kind of practical
incentives can overcome ethnic barriers.

There is a danger, however, that state-sponsored efforts at "blending" and
"fusion" will be seen by Uyghurs in China or by China's critics anywhere as
really aimed at assimilating Uyghurs into Han culture - in other words, as an
attempt to Sinify the Uyghurs. This comes at a time when many Uyghurs see such
recent policies as the destruction of old Kashgar in the name of development,
the elimination of Uyghur-language education and continuing Han migration into
the Uyghur traditional homelands in Xinjiang as all threatening the preservation
of a distinctive Uyghur culture.

James Leibold , senior lecturer on the faculty of humanities and social sciences
at La Trobe University in Melbourne, is currently teaching at a study abroad
program in Beijing:

Interethnic marriage has long been an important indicator of social cohesion and
national integration, and here figures for China also reveal a pattern of
segregation. Although interethnic marriage is common among some smaller minority
communities, only 3.2 percent of PRC citizens live in a bi-ethnic household
compared to over 8 percent in the United States. According to 2000 census
figures, only 1.05 percent of Uyghur, 1.58 percent of Han and 7.71 percent of
Tibetan households were bi-ethnic, while in contrast 15 percent of all new
marriages in the United States in 2008 were interracial, and 20.2 percent of
marriages in Singapore during 2010. In their 2007 survey, [Wenfang] Tang and
[Gaochao] He found strong disapproval of interethnic and interracial marriages,
especially among the poorly-educated, low-income Uyghur and Kazakh students they
questioned. This low level of integration mitigates against ethnic conflict in
the short term, while reinforcing ethnic consciousness and the potential for
violent clashes in the long run.

I see these cash incentives as one of a range of local interpretations of the
2nd Central Xinjiang Work Forum's call for increased interethnic "contact,
exchange and mingling" [[#x4ea4][#x5f80][#x4ea4][#x6d41][#x4ea4][#x878d]] and
further evidence of the party-state's attempts at paternalistic social
engineering in Xinjiang: ethnic unity and harmony by central fiat!

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            September 7, 2014 Sunday

Facebook Generation Rekindles Expectation of Privacy Online

BYLINE: MOLLY WOOD

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 778 words



HIGHLIGHT: As our online personal information has become less and less personal,
the privacy pendulum may now ready to switch directions.


Mark Zuckerberg said in 2010 that privacy was no longer a "social norm." But
four years later, the pendulum might be ready to swing the other way.

The second generation of digital citizens - teenagers and millennials, who have
spent most, if not all, of their lives online - appear to be more likely to
embrace the tools of privacy and protect their personal information.

Disappearing-message apps like Snapchat and Cyber Dust have been embraced by
young people who aren't eager to leave too much of a digital footprint. Video
apps like Vine and Instagram let you create an edited version of your world
instead of uploading all your personal details.

Even Facebook, despite years of resistance, recently changed its default for new
posts from "public" to "friends" and introduced tools that let you easily untag
yourself in other people's photos and change old posts from public to
friends-only.

"Previously there had been a sort of undue trust in the magic of cloud
services," said Justin Brookman, director of the Consumer Privacy Project at the
Center for Democracy & Technology. "People are starting to reconsider that."

"For some people, the results will be that we don't have any privacy and we
should get over that," he said. "But I don't think people want that. We've seen
the younger generation search out tools that let them communicate in more
private ways."

These tools aren't foolproof, but they speak to an interest in sharing less
freely and being more judicious.

Devices like the Blackphone also offer expanded tools for protecting your
privacy, like encryption of data and more secure app management, that could
trickle into mainstream products.

And regulatory pressure in the United States and Europe may be forcing companies
to think twice about what they do with personal information.

"You're seeing more pressure on companies to be more explicit about what they're
doing with your data," Mr. Brookman said. "But a lot of companies would just as
soon fly under the radar. Requiring real transparency and real choice would help
a lot in these matters."

There may be only so much we can do to protect ourselves against hackers bent on
stealing our information, of course, as some celebrities appeared to discover
last week.

You can create stronger passwords and enable things like multifactor
authentication, which adds steps to logging into an online account.

Sure, a person wearing Google Glass could be surreptitiously recording your
conversations or actions in public. But many losses of online privacy are
self-inflicted. That's one reason the phrase "reasonable expectation of privacy"
has a tortured history on the web.

Its origins are in a United States Supreme Court ruling that helped refine the
Fourth Amendment to the Constitution, which protects citizens against
unreasonable search and seizure. A 1967 ruling by the court created the concept
of the expectation of privacy, but further cases determined that the expectation
might not exist for information that you knowingly expose to a third party.

That cuts a pretty broad path, it turns out, since it applies to almost any
information you give to someone else.

And while it used to be assumed that you had a reasonable expectation of privacy
in places like your home, privacy on the Internet or anything connected to it
has proved difficult to defend. It doesn't help if you willingly share
information with other people - and companies - on social media.

Your phone may also be tracking your precise location and compiling a complete
record of your whereabouts. Although the Supreme Court ruled this year that
police can't search a phone without a warrant, the federal government has argued
that it doesn't need a warrant to obtain that history from cellular providers,
because you can't reasonably expect that information to be private.

The ads you click on and your search history paint a picture of what you buy,
what interests you and what ails you.

Even your email and personal messages may be fair game. Google said in a 2013
court filing that users had no reasonable expectation that their email
communications are confidential.

That's a windup to say that for young people - and maybe even some of the older
ones - there is plenty of data pointing to a need to think twice about their
online behavior.

Last year around this time, the Pew Research Center reported that 86 percent of
Internet users had taken some kind of steps to avoid being identified or tracked
online, even though almost 60 percent of them thought that true online anonymity
was impossible.

They might be right about anonymity, but others might still argue that keeping
at least some privacy is worth a shot.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 8, 2014 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Facebook Generation Rekindles Expectation of Privacy Online

BYLINE: By MOLLY WOOD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 792 words


Mark Zuckerberg said in 2010 that privacy was no longer a ''social norm.'' But
four years later, the pendulum might be ready to swing the other way.

The second generation of digital citizens -- teenagers and millennials, who have
spent most, if not all, of their lives online -- appear to be more likely to
embrace the tools of privacy and protect their personal information.

Disappearing-message apps like Snapchat and Cyber Dust have been embraced by
young people who aren't eager to leave too much of a digital footprint. Video
apps like Vine and Instagram let you create an edited version of your world
instead of uploading all your personal details.

Even Facebook, despite years of resistance, recently changed its default for new
posts from ''public'' to ''friends'' and introduced tools that let you easily
untag yourself in other people's photos and change old posts from public to
friends-only.

''Previously there had been a sort of undue trust in the magic of cloud
services,'' said Justin Brookman, director of the Consumer Privacy Project at
the Center for Democracy & Technology. ''People are starting to reconsider
that.''

''For some people, the results will be that we don't have any privacy and we
should get over that,'' he said. ''But I don't think people want that. We've
seen the younger generation search out tools that let them communicate in more
private ways.''

These tools aren't foolproof, but they speak to an interest in sharing less
freely and being more judicious.

Devices like the Blackphone also offer expanded tools for protecting your
privacy, like encryption of data and more secure app management, that could
trickle into mainstream products.

And regulatory pressure in the United States and Europe may be forcing companies
to think twice about what they do with personal information.

''You're seeing more pressure on companies to be more explicit about what
they're doing with your data,'' Mr. Brookman said. ''But a lot of companies
would just as soon fly under the radar. Requiring real transparency and real
choice would help a lot in these matters.''

There may be only so much we can do to protect ourselves against hackers bent on
stealing our information, of course, as some celebrities appeared to discover
last week.

You can create stronger passwords and enable things like multifactor
authentication, which adds steps to logging into an online account.

Sure, a person wearing Google Glass could be surreptitiously recording your
conversations or actions in public. But many losses of online privacy are
self-inflicted. That's one reason the phrase ''reasonable expectation of
privacy'' has a tortured history on the web.

Its origins are in a United States Supreme Court ruling that helped refine the
Fourth Amendment to the Constitution, which protects citizens against
unreasonable search and seizure. A 1967 ruling by the court created the concept
of the expectation of privacy, but further cases determined that the expectation
might not exist for information that you knowingly expose to a third party.

That cuts a pretty broad path, it turns out, since it applies to almost any
information you give to someone else.

And while it used to be assumed that you had a reasonable expectation of privacy
in places like your home, privacy on the Internet or anything connected to it
has proved difficult to defend. It doesn't help if you willingly share
information with other people -- and companies -- on social media.

Your phone may also be tracking your precise location and compiling a complete
record of your whereabouts. Although the Supreme Court ruled this year that
police can't search a phone without a warrant, the federal government has argued
that it doesn't need a warrant to obtain that history from cellular providers,
because you can't reasonably expect that information to be private.

The ads you click on and your search history paint a picture of what you buy,
what interests you and what ails you.

Even your email and personal messages may be fair game. Google said in a 2013
court filing that users had no reasonable expectation that their email
communications are confidential.

That's a windup to say that for young people -- and maybe even some of the older
ones -- there is plenty of data pointing to a need to think twice about their
online behavior.

Last year around this time, the Pew Research Center reported that 86 percent of
Internet users had taken some kind of steps to avoid being identified or tracked
online, even though almost 60 percent of them thought that true online anonymity
was impossible.

They might be right about anonymity, but others might still argue that keeping
at least some privacy is worth a shot.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/09/07/rethinking-privacy-on-the-internet/

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Young people, who have spent most of their lives online, are
embracing apps like Snapchat to cover their digital tracks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J.
EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday

Apple's Live-Streaming Is Terrible

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 262 words



HIGHLIGHT: While the company makes its much-anticipated announcements about its
new products, it seems to be having a lot of trouble with the live-streaming of
the event.


Finally, Apple's product announcements have arrived. But for anyone wanting to
watch the live-streaming, well, it's extremely awkward.

Those lucky few who are actually at the event in Cupertino, Calif., are hearing
much-anticipated announcements about two new iPhone 6 models. But for those
streaming the event with their Safari browsers, it's hard to hear anything
because of the live Mandarin translation. Can someone tell this translator to
quiet down? Also, the stream keeps pausing and dropping and occasionally
flashing a message resembling a test of the Emergency Broadcast System. I can't
help but wonder what Steve Jobs would say about this.

Apparently I am not the only one. Here's what the Internet had to say:

You guys are missing biggest news of all: Apple's trying to tell us that iPhone
6 & 6+ include LIVE AUTO-TRANSLATION TO CHINESE

- Rick Klau (@rklau)9 Sep 14

@nicoleperlroth They should hired Garrett Morris to assist
http://t.co/PuRZlO92e4

- Kevin Kosh (@kidko92)9 Sep 14

Well, that's one way to silence the simultaneous Chinese translation. #Apple
#WWDC14 #fail http://t.co/3nXA6KLKpw

- Mark Tye (@fakemarktye)9 Sep 14

#Apple event live streaming is full of glitches, loud translation, stops and
starts, error messages.

- dave w (@orangetoast13)9 Sep 14

@nicoleperlroth Looks like someone has switched the country streams. Perhaps a
cyber attack.

- Dan Elam (@ElamGuru)9 Sep 14

@nicoleperlroth @nytimesbits What's up with the woman "overdubbing" on the Apple
livecast??!! Best guess: Japanese. Very sloppy!

- Steve DeLong (@otinokyad)9 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 14, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

'World Order'

BYLINE: By JOHN MICKLETHWAIT

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2050 words


WORLD ORDERBy Henry Kissinger

420 pp. Penguin Press. $36.

If you want to understand the point of Henry Kissinger, play this mind game:
Imagine that the nonagenarian had run American foreign policy since Sept. 11,
2001, instead of two groups that had spent much of the previous quarter-century
condemning him. First came the democracy-touting neoconservatives, who saw his
realpolitik as appeasement, and now liberal Democrats, who insist
nation-building must begin at home -- and therefore hate foreign entanglements,
let alone grand strategies.

Might a little realism have been useful in Iraq, rather than the ''stuff
happens'' amateurism of the Bush years? Would a statesman who read Winston
Churchill on Afghanistan (''except at harvest time . . . the Pathan [Pashtun]
tribes are always engaged in private or public war'') have committed America to
establishing a ''gender sensitive . . . and fully representative'' government in
Kabul? Would Kissinger have issued a red-line warning to Syria and then allowed
Assad to go unpunished when he used chemical weapons? Or let a power vacuum
gradually develop on Vladimir Putin's borders? Or looked on as the South China
Sea became a cockpit of regional rivalries?

If you think America is doing just fine, then skip ahead to the poetry reviews.
If, however, you worry about a globe spinning out of control, then ''World
Order'' is for you. It brings together history, geography, modern politics and
no small amount of passion. Yes, passion, for this is a cri de coeur from a
famous skeptic, a warning to future generations from an old man steeped in the
past. It comes with faults: It is contorted by the author's concerns about his
legacy and by a needless craving not to upset the Lilliputian leaders he still
seeks to influence. It also goes over some of the same ground as previous works.
But it is a book that every member of Congress should be locked in a room with
-- and forced to read before taking the oath of office.

The premise is that we live in a world of disorder: ''While 'the international
community' is invoked perhaps more insistently now than in any other era, it
presents no clear or agreed set of goals, methods or limits. . . . Chaos
threatens side by side with unprecedented interdependence.'' Hence the need to
build an order -- one able to balance the competing desires of nations, both the
established Western powers that wrote the existing international ''rules''
(principally the United States), and the emerging ones that do not accept them,
principally China, but also Russia and the Islamic world.

This will be hard because there never has been a true world order. Instead,
different civilizations have come up with their own versions. The Islamic and
Chinese ones were almost entirely self-­centered: If you were not within the
umma of believers or blessed with the emperor's masterly rule, you were an
infidel or a barbarian. Balance did not come into it. America's version, though
more recent and more nuanced, is also somewhat self-centered -- a moral order
where everything will be fine once the world comes to its senses and thinks like
America (which annoyingly it never quite does). So the best starting point
remains Europe's ''Westphalian'' balance of power.

For centuries pluralism was both Europe's strength and its weakness. After the
fall of Rome in 476, no power ruled the whole continent. Europe's modus vivendi
was competition: Your enemy's enemy was your friend. Thus Roman Catholic France
allied itself with Protestant German and Dutch princes and even the Ottomans to
prevent the Catholic Holy Roman Empire from achieving supremacy. Out of all this
maneuvering came the brutal Thirty Years' War, with faction fighting faction
across borders, rather like the modern Middle East. Eventually, in 1648, a
gathering of 235 envoys in separate towns around Westphalia worked out three
different treaties.

The basic bargain was cuius regio, eius religio. A ruler could set the religion
in his country, but it enshrined the nation-state as the building block of the
European order: Each king was called ''majesty'' and treated equally. It opened
up an age of diplomacy (before then only the Venetians had what we would call
ambassadors). Equilibrium did not always last: Inevitably, there were rising
powers to contain, as well as irrational surges like the French Revolution's
desire to bring equality to all. After Waterloo, the dominant British provided
the balance by tilting to one side or another.

This is Kissinger's home territory -- and he tells the story well. His heroes
inevitably are realpolitikers, like Cardinal Richelieu, France's chief minister
from 1624 to 1642, who heretically sided with the Protestants, explaining that
''man is immortal, his salvation is hereafter. The state has no immortality, its
salvation is now or never''; Austria's Klemens von Metternich, the architect of
the Congress of Vienna; and Britain's pragmatic Lord Palmerston (''We have no
eternal allies, and we have no perpetual enemies''). Read Kissinger's
description of Talleyrand, and by the end the aristocratic French diplomat has
assumed a guttural German accent and thick glasses:

''He started his career as Bishop of Autun, left the Church to support the
Revolution, abandoned the Revolution to serve as Napoleon's foreign minister,
abandoned Napoleon to negotiate the restoration of the French monarch and
appeared in Vienna as Louis XVIII's foreign minister. Many called Talleyrand an
opportunist. Talleyrand would have argued that his goals were stability within
France and peace in Europe and that he had taken whatever opportunities were
available to achieve these goals. He had surely striven for positions to study
the various elements of power and legitimacy at close hand without being unduly
constrained by any of them. Only a formidable personality could have projected
himself into the center of so many great and conflicting events.''

So Europe has given us the most plausible historical model, but it is no longer
the sculptor. It shed its power during two world wars, half-embraced the idea of
a post-Westphalian union and is now too obsessed in the European Union's
internal construction. It will be of little use on the world stage until it has
resolved that debate, and as Kissinger notes in one of his more withering
asides, unifications in Europe have only been achieved with a forceful uniter,
like Piedmont in Italy or Prussia in Germany.

Kissinger also canters eloquently through Russia. Vladimir Putin's nationalism
makes more sense once you understand the historical chip on his shoulder and his
country's centuries-long, remorseless expansion: Russia added an average of
100,000 square kilometers a year to its territory from 1552 to 1917.

Still, the book stalls a bit with Islam. Religion used to be one of Kissinger's
blind spots: The word does not appear in the index of ''Diplomacy.'' Now
Kissinger seems to have swung too far the other way. Islam's failure to
differentiate between mosque and state suddenly explains virtually everything
(though not, presumably, the success of the largest Muslim-­dominated state,
Indonesia). Iran is perfidy personified. By contrast, Israel is a victim, ''a
Westphalian state'' in a sea of unreason. He does not mention its unhelpful
settlement-building or examine the Jewish state's own extremists (the man who
killed the peacemaking Yitzhak Rabin is a ''radical Israeli student''). It all
feels like a rather belated olive branch to the Israeli right and its supporters
in America's Congress.

The book recovers speed with Asia. Kissinger compares Britain's effect on India
to Napoleon's on Germany: In both cases multiple states that had seen themselves
only as a geographic entity discovered a national one. There is some repetition
here with his last book on China, but he moves quickly through the Middle
Kingdom's self-absorbed history, where foreign policy was largely a matter of
collecting tribute through the emperor's Ministry of Rituals and where soldiery
was little valued (''Good iron is not used for nails. Good men do not become
soldiers''). In 1893, even as Western forces were overrunning the country, the
Qing dynasty diverted military funds to restore a marble boat in the Imperial
Palace.

Gradually, though, the full extent of the problem becomes clear -- and its
American dimension. Within Asia, two potential balances of power are emerging,
both involving China -- one in South Asia, the other in East Asia. But neither
at present has a balancer, a country capable of shifting its weight to the
weaker side as Britain did in Europe. As for China itself, although it makes
some use of international rules, it ''has not forgotten that it was originally
forced to engage with the existing international order in a manner utterly at
odds with its historical image of itself.'' In 15 cases of history where a
rising and established power interacted, 10 ended in war. Supposedly America is
China's partner, but ''partnership cannot be achieved by proclamation.''

Is modern America capable of leading the world out of this? Kissinger never
answers this question directly, but the chapters on his own country read like a
carefully worded warning to a treasured but blinkered friend. America comes to
the task with two deep character faults. The first, bound up with its geography,
is a perception that foreign policy is ''an optional activity.'' As late as
1890, its army was only the 14th largest in the world, smaller than Bulgaria's.
This is a superpower that has withdrawn ignominiously from three of the last
five wars it chose to fight -- in Vietnam, Iraq (the younger Bush version),
Afghanistan. The second is that the same ideals that have built a great country
often made it lousy at diplomacy, especially ''the conviction that its domestic
principles were self-evidently universal and their application at all times
salutary'' -- the naïveté of Woodrow Wilson's League of Nations and the
neoconservatives' forays in the Islamic world.

At its best, America is unstoppable. Theodore Roosevelt, for instance, both
understood the need for his country to be involved and managed to fashion its
idealism to a pragmatic end. In the Cold War, America's moral order worked:
There was a clear adversary that could eventually just be outmuscled, there were
compliant allies and there were set rules of engagement. But the current
disorder is more complex: chaos in the Middle East, the spread of nuclear
weapons, the emergence of cyberspace as an unregulated military arena and the
reordering of Asia. The challenge is ''not simply a multipolarity of power but a
world of increasingly contradictory realities,'' Kissinger writes. ''It must not
be assumed that, left unattended, these trends will at some point reconcile
automatically to a world of balance and cooperation -- or even any order at
all.''

Meanwhile, statesmanship, the craft of ''attending'' to these problems, is
getting harder. Kissinger rightly mocks the cyber-­utopian idea that greater
connectiveness and transparency will make the world safer, as nations learn
about one another: ''Conflicts within and between societies have occurred since
the dawn of civilization. The causes of these conflicts have not been limited to
an absence of information or an insufficient ability to share it.'' To the
contrary, the immediacy of everything is a test. Every incident is flashed round
the world, everything becomes part of domestic politics, political careers are
molded in public. Boldness, leadership and stealth are all more difficult.

How do America's current leaders shape up? Here the book is both irritatingly
coy and implicitly devastating. There is no direct criticism of the Obama
administration and even a slightly comic paragraph expressing Kissinger's deep
personal admiration for George W. Bush -- in the midst of a section on the
cluelessness of his foreign policy. But under the equivocation and the
courtiership, the message is clear, even angry: The world is drifting,
unattended, and America, an indispensable part of any new order, has yet to
answer even basic questions, like ''What do we seek to prevent?'' and ''What do
we seek to achieve?'' Its politicians and people are unprepared for the century
ahead. Reading this book would be a useful first step forward.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/14/books/review/henry-kissingers-world-order.html

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry Kissinger (PHOTOGRAPH BY JÜRGEN FRANK) (BR20) DRAWING
(DRAWING BY IKER AYESTARAN)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     September 18, 2014 Thursday 00:00 EST

Work, Love and Therapy, in So Many Bytes;
Movie Review

BYLINE: A. O. SCOTT

SECTION: MOVIES

LENGTH: 640 words



HIGHLIGHT: Christoph Waltz plays a hapless laborer in Terry Gilliam's latest
fanciful foray into a dystopian future, which revisits some of the themes in the
director's "Brazil."


The opening images of "The Zero Theorem" could hardly be more arresting: a man,
naked and hairless, sits in front of an oversize computer screen in surroundings
that are at once archaic and futuristic. The technology is advanced, while the
décor hovers somewhere between late Victorian and mid-20th-century modern. The
man's name, which people often forget or get wrong, is Qohen Leth. He lives in
an abandoned church and commutes on foot through chaotic city streets to a
soul-crushing job doing something with data for a corporation owned by an
elusive Big Brother-like figure known only as Management.

Management eventually shows up in the person of Matt Damon. Qohen is played by
Christoph Waltz as a fast-talking, perpetually anxious holy fool who refers to
himself in the first person plural. Other significant characters include
Management's teenage son, Bob (Lucas Hedges); Bainsley (Mélanie Thierry), a
young woman who awakens Qohen's long-dormant romantic and sexual interests; and
Joby (David Thewlis), Qohen's cheerful and obnoxious supervisor at work. Qohen's
therapist is a bit of software that turns into Tilda Swinton on his computer
screen. All of them and the funky dystopia they inhabit spring from the fertile,
undisciplined imagination of Terry Gilliam.

That fact makes "The Zero Theorem," written by Pat Rushin, a lively viewing
experience, thanks to Mr. Gilliam's perpetual-motion shooting style and his
witty, allusive visual vocabulary. Every frame is dense with information, some
of it in the service of the film's allegorical intention, some of it there for
fun. Mr. Gilliam has been, since his days as an animator for "Monty Python's
Flying Circus," a tirelessly inventive filmmaker. He has also occasionally
ascended to the level of visionary, in particular with the prescient,
still-potent science-fiction satire "Brazil."

Admirers of that movie will find echoes of its themes and traces of its look
here, but they will miss its intellectual vigor and narrative momentum. The
ideas that animate "The Zero Theorem" -- about the erosion of individuality in a
technocratic, corporate-dominated society and about the collapsing boundary
between work and leisure -- are certainly no less relevant now than they were in
the 1980s. They just don't feel very fresh or fully integrated into a coherent
speculative world.

Management enlists Qohen in the top-secret, super-important project of proving
the hypothesis that gives the film its title. The theory, in a nutshell, is that
"everything adds up to nothing," and poor Qohen chases mathematical confirmation
through an endless, Lego-like virtual landscape. He takes a break for cyber
-canoodling with Bainsley, a thinly imagined erotic fantasy who nonetheless
restores some of his humanity. But even as Mr. Gilliam assails the tedium and
pointlessness of Qohen's existence, "The Zero Theorem" succumbs to those forces,
spinning its wheels and repeating its jokes in a manic frenzy that is never as
funny or as mind-blowing as it wants to be.

"The Zero Theorem" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult
guardian). Language and nudity.

The Zero Theorem

Opens on Friday

Directed by Terry Gilliam; written by Pat Rushin; director of photography,
Nicola Pecorini; edited by Mick Audsley; music by George Fenton; production
design by David Warren; costumes by Carlo Poggioli; produced by Nicholas
Chartier and Dean Zanuck; released by Amplify. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes.

WITH: Christoph Waltz (Qohen Leth), David Thewlis (Joby), Mélanie Thierry
(Bainsley), Lucas Hedges (Bob), Matt Damon (Management), Tilda Swinton (Dr.
Shrink-Rom), Sanjeev Bhaskar (Doctor 1), Peter Stormare (Doctor 2) and Ben
Whishaw (Doctor 3).

PHOTO: Qohen Leth (Christoph Waltz) resides in a church in the fantasy "The Zero
Theorem," directed by Terry Gilliam. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMPLIFY)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 19, 2014 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Work, Love and Therapy, in So Many Bytes

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 619 words


The opening images of ''The Zero Theorem'' could hardly be more arresting: a
man, naked and hairless, sits in front of an oversize computer screen in
surroundings that are at once archaic and futuristic. The technology is
advanced, while the décor hovers somewhere between late Victorian and
mid-20th-century modern. The man's name, which people often forget or get wrong,
is Qohen Leth. He lives in an abandoned church and commutes on foot through
chaotic city streets to a soul-crushing job doing something with data for a
corporation owned by an elusive Big Brother-like figure known only as
Management.

Management eventually shows up in the person of Matt Damon. Qohen is played by
Christoph Waltz as a fast-talking, perpetually anxious holy fool who refers to
himself in the first person plural. Other significant characters include
Management's teenage son, Bob (Lucas Hedges); Bainsley (Mélanie Thierry), a
young woman who awakens Qohen's long-dormant romantic and sexual interests; and
Joby (David Thewlis), Qohen's cheerful and obnoxious supervisor at work. Qohen's
therapist is a bit of software that turns into Tilda Swinton on his computer
screen. All of them and the funky dystopia they inhabit spring from the fertile,
undisciplined imagination of Terry Gilliam.

That fact makes ''The Zero Theorem,'' written by Pat Rushin, a lively viewing
experience, thanks to Mr. Gilliam's perpetual-motion shooting style and his
witty, allusive visual vocabulary. Every frame is dense with information, some
of it in the service of the film's allegorical intention, some of it there for
fun. Mr. Gilliam has been, since his days as an animator for ''Monty Python's
Flying Circus,'' a tirelessly inventive filmmaker. He has also occasionally
ascended to the level of visionary, in particular with the prescient,
still-potent science-fiction satire ''Brazil.''

Admirers of that movie will find echoes of its themes and traces of its look
here, but they will miss its intellectual vigor and narrative momentum. The
ideas that animate ''The Zero Theorem'' -- about the erosion of individuality in
a technocratic, corporate-dominated society and about the collapsing boundary
between work and leisure -- are certainly no less relevant now than they were in
the 1980s. They just don't feel very fresh or fully integrated into a coherent
speculative world.

Management enlists Qohen in the top-secret, super-important project of proving
the hypothesis that gives the film its title. The theory, in a nutshell, is that
''everything adds up to nothing,'' and poor Qohen chases mathematical
confirmation through an endless, Lego-like virtual landscape. He takes a break
for cyber-canoodling with Bainsley, a thinly imagined erotic fantasy who
nonetheless restores some of his humanity. But even as Mr. Gilliam assails the
tedium and pointlessness of Qohen's existence, ''The Zero Theorem'' succumbs to
those forces, spinning its wheels and repeating its jokes in a manic frenzy that
is never as funny or as mind-blowing as it wants to be.

''The Zero Theorem'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult
guardian). Language and nudity.

The Zero Theorem

Opens on Friday

Directed by Terry Gilliam; written by Pat Rushin; director of photography,
Nicola Pecorini; edited by Mick Audsley; music by George Fenton; production
design by David Warren; costumes by Carlo Poggioli; produced by Nicholas
Chartier and Dean Zanuck; released by Amplify. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes.

WITH: Christoph Waltz (Qohen Leth), David Thewlis (Joby), Mélanie Thierry
(Bainsley), Lucas Hedges (Bob), Matt Damon (Management), Tilda Swinton (Dr.
Shrink-Rom), Sanjeev Bhaskar (Doctor 1), Peter Stormare (Doctor 2) and Ben
Whishaw (Doctor 3).

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/19/movies/christoph-waltz-drowns-in-technocracy-i
n-the-zero-theorem.html

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Qohen Leth (Christoph Waltz) resides in a church in the fantasy
''The Zero Theorem,'' directed by Terry Gilliam. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMPLIFY)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 22, 2014 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Cyber-Geeks, High-Tech Villains Meet Their Match

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 406 words


Technology is taking over our televisions. Not technology as in DVRs and Amazon
Fire. Technology as a plot device. Tales of Silicon Valley (like ''Silicon
Valley'') and start-ups and cyber-smarties are all around, and on Monday night
CBS introduces another, ''Scorpion.''

The series is about a group of socially awkward geniuses who help battle the
high-tech horrors of our age. In the premiere, terrorists have hacked into the
West Coast's air traffic control system, and dozens of flights are going to
crash.

Elyes Gabel, who has logged time on ''Body of Proof'' and (hasn't everybody?)
''Game of Thrones,'' plays the leader of the misfits, Walter O'Brien, whose
history with Homeland Security types stretches back to long before there was a
Homeland Security. It hasn't always been a happy pairing, as we learn in Episode
1. Robert Patrick -- you'll always think of him as the T-1000 in ''Terminator
2'' -- is the agency official who recruits the brain trust, which also includes
a behaviorist (Eddie Kaye Thomas), a stats guy (Ari Stidham) and a
super-mechanic (Jadyn Wong). Before the first episode is over, serendipity has
introduced them to Paige (Katharine McPhee), who agrees to be their interface
with the nongenius world and who -- what a coincidence -- also has a savant of a
son.

The series is supposedly inspired by the real-life Walter O'Brien, but the
opening case quickly spirals into improbability, or at least what seems so to an
ordinary viewer. That's one problem with a lot of these high-tech shows: Most
viewers have no way of knowing whether what they're seeing is technologically
possible or just made up. The other problem is that old-fashioned acting is too
often replaced by the never-exciting sight of someone poking urgently at a
computer.

''Scorpion'' tries to compensate for this with a high-adrenaline pace, but that
can lead to its own kind of weariness. The most interesting parts of the
premiere are the ones involving Paige and her son and actual human interaction.

Scorpion

CBS, Monday nights at 9, Eastern and Pacific times; 8, Central time.

Produced by CBS Television Studios. Alex Kurtzman, Roberto Orci, Nick Santora,
Nicholas Wootton, Justin Lin, Heather Kadin, Scooter Braun and Walter O'Brien,
executive producers.

WITH: Elyes Gabel (Walter O'Brien), Robert Patrick (Cabe Gallo), Katharine
McPhee (Paige Dineen), Eddie Kaye Thomas (Toby Curtis), Jadyn Wong (Happy Quinn)
and Ari Stidham (Sylvester Dodd).

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/22/arts/television/awkward-geniuses-battle-online
-terrorism-in-scorpion.html

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Times Insider)

                           September 22, 2014 Monday

How a Times Cyber-Security Reporter Protects Her Data. And What You Can Do to
Protect Yours.

BYLINE: Susan Lehman

LENGTH: 797 words



HIGHLIGHT: Times technology reporter Nicole Perloth shares her thoughts on
cybersecurity, on how she protects her online identity, and how you should
protect yours.


 Nicole Perlroth covers cyber security and privacy. Last week she wrote on Home
Depot's confirmation that hackers had broken into its in-store payments systems
in what could be the largest-known breach of a retail company's computer
network. She shares her thoughts on security and personal data with Times
Insiders.

Q.

You've written about Russian hackers, financial malware, attacks on J.P.
Morgan's bank-server security and on Middle East petrochemical plants. Does your
reporting make you paranoid about your own data?

A.

Of course. I wrote about a cyberattack at the Chamber of Commerce a few years
back. Six months after security teams and the FBI cleaned up the Chamber's
systems, a printer in their Washington offices was still communicating with an
I.P. address in China. So was the thermometer in one of the Chamber's corporate
apartments. There is a lot to be paranoid about.

I try to do as much as I can to protect my data, but so much depends on the
security practices of the companies to which we have willingly handed our data
and to those that took it without our knowledge.

At some point, I just sort of threw my hands up. If Chinese or Russian hackers
want to read my texts with my fiance, they're going to do so. I'm just irritated
that it's slowing my Internet connection.

Q.

Before throwing up your hands, what do you do to safeguard your personal data?

A.

I don't hand my email address or birth date to retailers. I use my credit card
to make purchases and try to abstain from using my debit card unless I'm at a
bank. I do not use self-checkout systems at merchants, because those are often
the first place hackers will scan.

For my own personal data, I use long, complex passwords. I also use two
different web browsers - one for browsing to my email and bank account, the
other for e-commerce and general web browsing.

I switch on two-factor authentication wherever I can. I try not to say anything
in an email or text message that I wouldn't mind a stranger reading. I am very
careful about the ways in which I communicate with my sources. I use Wickr, a
mobile app that encrypts and self-destructs messages. I also use Silent Circle,
which allows me to place encrypted phone calls. There are some sources I will
only meet in person, which is inconvenient to say the least, but that is the
world we now live in.

Q.

Have you changed your computer security much since you started writing about
hackers and computer security breaches?

A.

I get a lot of strange looks because I put masking tape over the webcam on my
computer, but the last thing I need is a hacker watching me while I work.

Q.

What's the biggest threat hackers pose to ordinary people and their personal
data?

A.

If somebody steals your credit card number, your bank will reimburse any
fraudulent charges. To me, the bigger threat is that someone will use my stolen
data for identity theft and tank my credit score. Hackers are actively selling
medical records on the black market. My worst fear is that someone would use my
medical identity and pollute my lifetime medical records.

Q.

What can readers/all of us do to protect ourselves?

Be vigilant. Don't give your personal data away willy-nilly. Use strong
passwords. And by strong, I mean long and not a word from the dictionary. Don't
use the same password across multiple accounts. If one gets compromised, they
all get compromised. Turn on two-factor authentication. Treat your email and
text messages as if these are public conversations. Use your credit card when
you can instead of your debit card. Ask companies why they need your data when
they ask for it.

Q.

And what is the worst case hacking scenario?

A.

A cyber attack with physical consequences, such as an attack on a water shed or
petrochemical company that would poison our water systems or cause an explosion.
The United States and Israel proved that kind of attack is possible when they
took out the uranium supply at an Iranian facility with a computer virus. The
good news is that those who have the abilities to pull off such an attack are
sufficiently deterred from doing so.

Q.

Yikes. How imminent or likely is that?

A.

I don't want to speculate because there are plenty of fear mongers out there and
I don't want to do their bidding. But the reality is that cyber attacks will
play a very prominent role in any real world conflict going forward.

Q.

What's the next likely development on the cyber security beat - what are you
watching for?

A.

Retail breaches will dominant my beat for some time. The Secret Service
estimates that 1,000 United States companies have been hit with the same attack
that compromised Target and Home Depot. Many of them don't even know they've
been breached. But many are hushing it up. Let's just say I have my work cut out
for me.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                       (United Nations General Assembly)

                          September 27, 2014 Saturday

Narendra Modi, in U.N. Speech, Inserts India Into Terrorism Fight

BYLINE: SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 847 words



HIGHLIGHT: Indian&#8217;s prime minister made his first speech at the United
Nations General Assembly.


Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India reminded the world on Saturday of his
country's abiding battle against extremist groups, and took a swipe at countries
that give them shelter before capping his speech with a call for an
International Yoga Day.

In his maiden speech to the United Nations General Assembly, Mr. Modi, without
naming names, hinted at India's longstanding contention that its rival,
Pakistan, backs groups that have carried out terrorist attacks on Indian soil.
Twenty years ago, world leaders used to call it a "law and order problem," he
said, suggesting that only now had they had come around to understanding India's
concerns. "Some countries are giving refuge to international terrorists," he
said. "They consider terrorism to be a tool of their policy."

Mr. Modi signaled his support for the United States' renewed focus on fighting
terrorism, and showed that he clearly understands the value of political
symbolism. Even before he arrived at the United Nations, he paid a visit to the
National September 11 Memorial and Museum in lower Manhattan. In his meetings at
the White House scheduled for Monday and Tuesday, security and counterterrorism
cooperation between the two countries is certain to be on the agenda, including
a discussion of the American-led airstrikes in Iraq and Syria, administration
officials said.

Mr. Modi arrived early Saturday for his meeting with the secretary general, Ban
Ki-moon. He toured a section of the second floor corridor of the United Nations
complex to see several works of art, including an 11th century stone sculpture
that  former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of India presented to the world body
in 1982.

As expected, he said not a word about a decade-long visa ban by the United
States government that had prevented him from coming to the United States since
the deadly religious violence in 2002 in the state of Gujarat, which he then
led.

Defying Expectations in India, Modi Begins Key Trip to U.S.

On climate change, India is under scrutiny for how it will commit to cutting its
future emissions. On this issue, Mr. Modi did not show his hand. He spoke about
"shouldering our responsibilities," and reminded rich countries that they have
promised to help pay.

Earlier this week, his environment minister, Prakash Javdekar, flatly
saidIndia's emissions would necessarily grow through new coal-powered
electricity and transportation in the coming years as the country seeks to
alleviate poverty and create industry.

Mr. Modi offered yoga as one of India's contributions to global efforts. It is
not just exercise, he said.  "By changing our lifestyle and creating
consciousness, it can help us deal with climate change," he said. "Let us work
towards adopting an International Yoga Day."

In his speech, Mr. Modi rebuked India's neighbor and rival Pakistan, a day after
its prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, raised the issue of a referendum for disputed
Kashmir province - long a sore spot for India. Mr. Modi said talks with Pakistan
were possible in a "peaceful atmosphere without the shadow of terrorism."

"However, Pakistan must also take its responsibility seriously to create an
appropriate environment," he said. "Raising issues in thisforum is not the way
to make progress towards resolving issues between our two countries."

Nawaz Sharif on Stability in Pakistan

He began his remarks in an unusually understated way, speaking from prepared
notes, which is rare for him, before picking up rhetorical steam and force. He
repeatedly invoked India's Vedic traditions. Mr. Modi spoke in Hindi, as
expected, with a generous sprinkling of English words like "prosperity," "cyber,
" and "blue helmets." India is among the largest contributors of soldiers to
United Nations peacekeeping efforts, and Mr. Modi sharply nudged the Security
Council to include nations like his when making decisions about what
peacekeepers are expected to do.  His comments hinted at the tensions that arise
between countries that contribute troops and the world powers on the Security
Council that fund them, and set their mandates.

Mr. Modi renewed India's call for a permanent seat on the Security Council,
pointedly reminding the audience that the Council's permanent members - Britain,
China, France, Russia, and the United States - represent a bygone era.
"Institutions that reflect the imperatives of 20th century won't be effective in
the 21st," he said.

The day before his arrival in New York, a federal court issued a summons for Mr.
Modito respond to a lawsuit that accuses him of human rights abuses in
connection with religious riots in 2002 that tore through Gujarat. Mr. Modi, who
was the chief minister of the state at the time of the riots, has been accused
of acting too slowly to stop the violence.

Mr. Modi did not refer to the summons, and it is likely to have no effect. As an
administration official pointed out Friday, "as a general legal principle,
sitting heads of government enjoy immunity from suits in American courts." The
protection applies to sitting heads of national delegations to the General
Assembly, the official added.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 28, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

At U.N., Premier Inserts India Into Terrorism Fight

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; UNITED NATIONS GENERAL ASSEMBLY; Pg.
4

LENGTH: 865 words


Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India reminded the world on Saturday of his
country's abiding battle against extremist groups, and took a swipe at countries
that give them shelter before capping his speech with a call for an
International Yoga Day.

In his maiden speech to the United Nations General Assembly, Mr. Modi, without
naming names, hinted at India's longstanding contention that its rival,
Pakistan, backs groups that have carried out terrorist attacks on Indian soil.
Twenty years ago, world leaders used to call it a ''law and order problem,'' he
said, suggesting that only now had they had come around to understanding India's
concerns. ''Some countries are giving refuge to international terrorists,'' he
said. ''They consider terrorism to be a tool of their policy.''

Mr. Modi signaled his support for the United States' renewed focus on fighting
terrorism, and showed that he clearly understands the value of political
symbolism. Even before he arrived at the United Nations, he paid a visit to the
National September 11 Memorial and Museum in lower Manhattan. In his meetings at
the White House scheduled for Monday and Tuesday, security and counterterrorism
cooperation between the two countries is certain to be on the agenda, including
a discussion of the American-led airstrikes in Iraq and Syria, administration
officials said.

Mr. Modi arrived early Saturday for his meeting with the secretary general, Ban
Ki-moon. He toured a section of the second floor corridor of the United Nations
complex to see several works of art, including an 11th century stone sculpture
that former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of India presented to the world body in
1982.

As expected, he said not a word about a decade-long visa ban by the United
States government that had prevented him from coming to the United States since
the deadly religious violence in 2002 in the state of Gujarat, which he then
led.

Defying Expectations in India, Modi Begins Key Trip to U.S.

On climate change, India is under scrutiny for how it will commit to cutting its
future emissions. On this issue, Mr. Modi did not show his hand. He spoke about
''shouldering our responsibilities,'' and reminded rich countries that they have
promised to help pay.

Earlier this week, his environment minister, Prakash Javdekar, flatly said
India's emissions would necessarily grow through new coal-powered electricity
and transportation in the coming years as the country seeks to alleviate poverty
and create industry.

Mr. Modi offered yoga as one of India's contributions to global efforts. It is
not just exercise, he said. ''By changing our lifestyle and creating
consciousness, it can help us deal with climate change,'' he said. ''Let us work
towards adopting an International Yoga Day.''

In his speech, Mr. Modi rebuked India's neighbor and rival Pakistan, a day after
its prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, raised the issue of a referendum for disputed
Kashmir province -- long a sore spot for India. Mr. Modi said talks with
Pakistan were possible in a ''peaceful atmosphere without the shadow of
terrorism.''

''However, Pakistan must also take its responsibility seriously to create an
appropriate environment,'' he said. ''Raising issues in thisforum is not the way
to make progress towards resolving issues between our two countries.''

Nawaz Sharif on Stability in Pakistan

He began his remarks in an unusually understated way, speaking from prepared
notes, which is rare for him, before picking up rhetorical steam and force. He
repeatedly invoked India's Vedic traditions. Mr. Modi spoke in Hindi, as
expected, with a generous sprinkling of English words like ''prosperity,'' ''
cyber,'' and ''blue helmets.'' India is among the largest contributors of
soldiers to United Nations peacekeeping efforts, and Mr. Modi sharply nudged the
Security Council to include nations like his when making decisions about what
peacekeepers are expected to do. His comments hinted at the tensions that arise
between countries that contribute troops and the world powers on the Security
Council that fund them, and set their mandates.

Mr. Modi renewed India's call for a permanent seat on the Security Council,
pointedly reminding the audience that the Council's permanent members --
Britain, China, France, Russia, and the United States -- represent a bygone era.
''Institutions that reflect the imperatives of 20th century won't be effective
in the 21st,'' he said.

The day before his arrival in New York, a federal court issued a summons for Mr.
Modi to respond to a lawsuit that accuses him of human rights abuses in
connection with religious riots in 2002 that tore through Gujarat. Mr. Modi, who
was the chief minister of the state at the time of the riots, has been accused
of acting too slowly to stop the violence.

Mr. Modi did not refer to the summons, and it is likely to have no effect. As an
administration official pointed out Friday, ''as a general legal principle,
sitting heads of government enjoy immunity from suits in American courts.'' The
protection applies to sitting heads of national delegations to the General
Assembly, the official added.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/news/un-general-assembly/2014/09/27/narendra-modi-in-u-n-
speech-inserts-india-into-terrorism-fight/

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India at the United Nations
General Assembly on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 29, 2014 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fruitless Repression

BYLINE: By JAMES A. MILLWARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1030 words


Last week, a court in China's far western Xinjiang region sentenced Ilham Tohti,
a member of the Uighur minority, to life in prison for the crime of ''inciting
separatism.'' The conviction of this moderate scholar elicited international
condemnation; the sentence was an order of magnitude longer than those given to
other Chinese dissidents. But, far from being a show of strength, the sentence
is a sign of the confusion and desperation behind the government's policies
toward Uighurs.

That Mr. Tohti, an economics professor and a blogger, should become a celebrated
political prisoner is a paradox, for he is in many ways a poster child for what
the Communist Party hopes more Uighurs will become. Educated, and eloquent in
Mandarin, he was a party member from a family closely engaged with the state
(his male relatives include members of China's military and state security
organs). He is professional, entrepreneurial and middle class (his family assets
amounted to around $130,000 before state confiscation). He is not outwardly
religious (most Uighurs are Muslims, but vary in the degree and nature of their
observance). He is distinctive mainly in his outspokenness.

Though the Chinese often think of Xinjiang as a remote frontier of deserts and
mountains, populated with quaint folkloric natives, it is closely linked to the
rest of China and to Central Asia by an expanding transportation infrastructure;
the skyscrapers, neon glow, booming commerce and air pollution of Xinjiang's
cities resemble those elsewhere in China; and although, like rural areas
throughout the country, Xinjiang's villages remain poor, the emerging middle
class in the cities is scarcely different from its counterparts in other urban
centers. Rapid economic development has benefited Uighurs as well as Han Chinese
(each group makes up just over 40 percent of the region's population of 21
million).

Yet the authorities seem puzzled and frustrated that, despite these economic
gains, Uighurs remain adamantly Uighur. Sporadic local disturbances are endemic
throughout China, but in Xinjiang they are colored by ethno-national and
religious sentiments. After a relatively quiet decade, from 1998 to 2007,
stability has eroded alarmingly since 2008, with a big, bloody race riot in
2009, sporadic attacks on police stations and representatives of the state and,
over the past year, violence perpetrated by Uighurs against random civilians in
Urumqi, the regional capital, and in faraway Yunnan Province and Beijing.
Xinjiang authorities have responded to violence with an intense crackdown,
including house-to-house searches, and a campaign against traditional symbols of
identity: veils, head scarves, beards, traditional hats, Ramadan fasting,
prayer.

Combined with the recent razing of Uighur architecture in the ancient city of
Kashgar and elimination of the Uighur-language educational track from Xinjiang's
schools and universities, these measures seem aimed at repressing Uighur
culture. Moreover, the authorities have now doubled down on their post-9/11
tendency to interpret Uighur unrest through a single lens -- foreign-inspired
Islamic ''terrorism'' -- even when the real causes are local and political.

It is unclear if China's leaders entirely believe their own propaganda -- that
all Uighur troubles derive from external sources and are unrelated to government
policies -- but local and regional authorities certainly benefit from it:
Whereas common people elsewhere in China enjoy some de facto freedom to protest
official and business malfeasance, Uighurs enjoy no such latitude. In the
absence of a free press, Beijing has few sources of on-the-ground information in
Xinjiang other than its own self-interested and self-protecting local officials,
who can readily justify their mistakes and abuses in the name of fighting
''separatism, extremism and terrorism.'' No surprise, then, that it was the
authorities in Xinjiang, not Beijing, who were most eager to prosecute Mr.
Tohti, for he has been arguing that Chinese policies themselves, not simply
cyber-radicalization, have been engendering Uighur resentment and violence.

Yet by condemning Mr. Tohti, Beijing has not only subjected itself yet again to
international opprobrium, but has denied itself a critical Uighur viewpoint and
an alternative approach to the deteriorating situation in Xinjiang. Before it
was shut down, Mr. Tohti's Uighurbiz website was a forum for Han and Uighur
contributors to discuss Xinjiang issues, bridging the two communities; the need
for more interethnic communication was a theme when the Communist Party issued
revised Xinjiang policy guidelines last May.

Most important, Mr. Tohti pointed out that China's own existing laws could
protect minority cultures -- if only they were observed. He did not call for a
radical American-style democratization, but rather for the protection of
indigenous institutions -- support for non-Han cultural expression, job
opportunities and truly ''autonomous'' government administration -- that is
enshrined in the Chinese Constitution and a 1984 law.

This system of ''ethnic autonomy'' was indirectly derived from the pluralist
(though not democratic) ideology of the Qing empire (1644-1911), which first
brought Xinjiang, Tibet, Mongolia and Taiwan under Beijing's rule as a ''great
family under Heaven.'' Though superficially resembling the system of national
republics undergirding the Soviet Union, the system developed by the People's
Republic of China differed in substantial ways and was adapted to Chinese
conditions and outlooks. It functioned successfully in the 1950s, when Xinjiang
was designated the ''Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region,'' and again in the early
1980s, and it remains popular with minority groups even though they have never
been afforded real autonomy. Far from ''inciting separatism,'' Mr. Tohti was
advocating a return to foundational promises dating to Mao's era.

Management of diversity and pluralism is a pressing world issue, from Scotland
to Ukraine to Ferguson, Mo. China has an opportunity to contribute its own fixes
to the bugs in the nation-state model, but cannot do so by locking up its most
creative and courageous thinkers.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/29/opinion/chinas-fruitless-repression-of-the-uig
hurs.html

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                           September 29, 2014 Monday

Protecting Your Business From a Data Breach

BYLINE: EILENE ZIMMERMAN

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 892 words



HIGHLIGHT: Small businesses generally are even more vulnerable than large
companies.


This year, Home Depot's in-store payment system was hacked in what may have been
the largest data breach of a retail company's computer network. It is unlikely
to be the last.

Many other well-known companies have been attacked, including Target, UPS,
Michaels, P.F. Chang's China Bistro and Neiman Marcus. And many small businesses
are even more vulnerable than large companies, because they can't afford the
kind of data security a larger company can - and because they don't follow best
practices.

Andrew Bagrin, founder and chief executive of My Digital Shield, a data security
firm in Wilmington, Del., that serves small businesses, says business owners
often feel that because they are small, they really aren't at risk. "So I'll ask
them," he said, "How many credit cards do you take in a month? A thousand? Then
you're vulnerable."

Hackers are looking for information they can use regardless of where it comes
from, and Mr. Bagrin said there had been a spike in point-of-sale breaches.
There are, however, some basic things small businesses can do to lower risk. The
following suggestions come from Mr. Bagrin; from Armando D'Accordo, owner of
CMIT Solutions in South Nassau, N.Y.; from Andrew Hoog, chief executive of
viaForensics, a company in Oak Park, Ill., that provides security for mobile
devices; and from Alan Brill, senior managing director of the cyber security
unit at Kroll, which is based in New York.

Use your point-of-sale system for customer transactions only.

"Most POS systems are computer systems, like an iPad, that have a POS system on
them. Don't browse the Internet from it, shop on it, look at Facebook or Twitter
with it," Mr. Bagrin said. When you browse the Internet, you make it easy for
someone to introduce something malicious into your system.

Dedicate one computer for the company's purchasing, banking and confidential
financial business.

Similarly, Mr. D'Accordo said the computer used for a company's bookkeeping,
banking and purchasing should not be used to search the Internet or view social
media sites. "That machine should be dedicated to financial transactions only,"
he said, "and should auto-lock in two minutes if it's not being used."

Keep your hardware, operating system, software and apps up to date.

One way that malicious software, or malware, is able to gain access to a
computer system and exploit it is through out-of-date hardware and software. All
updates include security fixes, so having the latest versions keeps your system
the most secure, Mr. Bagrin said.

Be careful about buying from unknown online vendors.

It's best not to make purchases from vendors you aren't familiar with, Mr.
D'Accordo said. And be wary of those that are based in other countries or whose
websites don't feature an https in their address or display the symbol for a
padlock.

Use and update antiviral and antispyware software on all computers, including
laptops and tablets.

If you can afford it, use a security service that updates those programs and
scans your system in real time - as it's active - to ensure nothing malicious
has been installed. My Digital Shield, for example, protects small businesses by
scanning all the traffic on their network. "Basically we take your traffic, plug
your Internet into our system and we make it a clean Internet, filtering out all
the harmful garbage," Mr. Bagrin said. The monthly subscription fee for this
service ranges from $69 to $89. The cost for CMIT's security and maintenance
services ranges from $200 a month for small businesses to $3,000 a month for
larger ones, depending on the level of protection.

Plug leaky apps.

Mr. Hoog said his company had found that about 60 percent of the mobile apps it
evaluated leaked information and had "other security problems." He said
developers are under such tight deadlines that they move quickly and sometimes
code improperly, leaving an app vulnerable. "One thing small businesses don't
realize is that even though Apple and Google do a bit of vetting, you can't
trust you're going to get a safe and secure app from their stores. An app will
leak out your address, customer list, suppliers, a password or a user name and
send it out over the Internet without encryption. Hackers just harvest that
data," Mr. Hoog said.

ViaForensics offers a cloud-based product for small businesses - viaProtect- an
app that assesses a mobile device, looking for leaky apps. It is free for
individual private use and for up to eight corporate users. After that, it's $8
a  device. ViaProtect sends out security alerts that tell the phone's user which
app has vulnerability and whether it is safe to use or should be upgraded.

Scan it, shred it or lock it up.

Data can be breached the old-fashioned way too, so Mr. D'Accordo tells clients
to keep paper files to a minimum. If they must keep paperwork, it should be kept
in locked file cabinets and scanned so there is always a digital backup. If the
paper doesn't have to be kept, it should be shredded.

Clean house frequently.

Chances are you store information in your database that you no longer need. Mr.
Brill suggested doing a yearly audit of your data. "I call it going on a data
diet," Mr. Brill said. "But do it in conjunction with your legal counsel, and
make sure whatever it is you're getting rid of won't get you into trouble."

You can follow Eilene Zimmerman on  Twitter .

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            October 2, 2014 Thursday

JPMorgan Discovers Further Cyber Security Issues

BYLINE: JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 322 words



HIGHLIGHT: The nation&#8217;s largest bank recently found that hackers, with
links to Italy, had gained entry to some of its servers, say several people with
knowledge of the investigation.


Updated, 1:15 p.m. | For the second time in roughly three months, JPMorgan Chase
is scrambling to contain the fallout from a security breach of its vast computer
network, according to several people with knowledge of the investigation.

JPMorgan, the nation's largest bank, recently found that hackers, with links to
Italy or southern Europe, had gained entry to some of the bank's servers, these
people said. The discovery follows an attack that was uncovered in late July and
suggests that it was more extensive than first thought. In that attack, hackers
obtained entry to dozens of the bank's servers and reviewed information on more
than one million customer accounts. Security experts briefed on the matter had
said that the full extent of the July attack was not known and that it could
take the bank months to discover all of the fallout.

It is unclear whether the latest discovery constitutes a second breach or is
part of broader fallout from the first incident. The revelation illustrates the
challenges for JPMorgan as the bank tries to secure all its systems against
another threat.

The original hack sent ripples through the financial system and prompted an
investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, even as Wall Street, which
has been a frequent target for hackers in recent years, worked to guard against
the threats.

The bank was also forced to update its regulators, including the Federal
Reserve, on the extent of the breach. The bank said at the time that there was
no indication that any customer money was taken and that it believed it had
secured all its systems.

On Thursday, the bank's top executives, including Gordon A. Smith, who heads
JPMorgan's community and consumer banking, were working to assess the extent of
the latest attack, according to two bank executives.

A spokesman for JPMorgan was not immediately available for comment.

After Breach, JPMorgan Still Seeks to Determine Extent of Attack

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 3, 2014 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hackers' Attack on a Giant Bank Affects Millions

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG, MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN and NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1067 words


Updated, 9:03 p.m. | A cyberattack this summer on JPMorgan Chase compromised the
accounts of 76 million households and seven million small businesses, a tally
that dwarfs previous estimates by the bank and puts the intrusion among the
largest ever.

The details of the breach -- disclosed in a securities filing on Thursday --
emerge at a time when consumer confidence in the digital operations of corporate
America has already been shaken. Target, Home Depot and a number of other
retailers have sustained major data breaches. Last year, the information of 40
million cardholders and 70 million others were compromised at Target, while an
attack at Home Depot in September affected 56 million cards.

But unlike retailers, JPMorgan, as the largest bank in the nation, has financial
information in its computer systems that goes beyond customers' credit card
details and potentially includes more sensitive data.

''We've migrated so much of our economy to computer networks because they are
faster and more efficient, but there are side effects,'' said Dan Kaminsky, a
researcher who works as chief scientist at White Ops, a security company.

Until just a few weeks ago, executives at JPMorgan said they believed that only
one million accounts were affected, according to several people with knowledge
of the attacks.

As the severity of the intrusion -- which began in June but was not discovered
until July -- became more clear in recent days, bank executives scrambled for
the second time in three months to contain the fallout and to reassure skittish
customers that no money had been taken and that their financial information
remained secure.

The hackers appeared to have obtained a list of the applications and programs
that run on JPMorgan's computers -- a road map of sorts -- which they could
crosscheck with known vulnerabilities in each program and web application, in
search of an entry point back into the bank's systems, according to several
people with knowledge of the results of the bank's forensics investigation, all
of whom spoke on the condition of anonymity.

Operating overseas, the hackers gained access to the names, addresses, phone
numbers and emails of JPMorgan account holders. In its regulatory filing on
Thursday, JPMorgan said that there was no evidence that account information,
including passwords or Social Security numbers, had been taken. The bank also
noted that there was no evidence of fraud involving the use of customer
information.

Still, until the JPMorgan breach surfaced in July, banks were viewed as
relatively safe from online assaults because of their investment in defenses and
trained security staff. Most previous breaches at banks have involved stealing
personal identification numbers for A.T.M. accounts, not burrowing deep into the
internal workings of a bank's computer systems.

Even if no customer financial information was taken, the apparent breadth and
depth of the JPMorgan attack shows how vulnerable Wall Street institutions are
to cybercrime. In 2011, hackers broke into the systems of the Nasdaq stock
market, but did not penetrate the part of the system that handles trades.

Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan's chairman and chief executive, has acknowledged the
growing digital threat. In his annual letter to shareholders, Mr. Dimon said,
''We're making good progress on these and other efforts, but cyberattacks are
growing every day in strength and velocity across the globe.''

Even though the bank has fortified its defenses against the attacks, Mr. Dimon
wrote, the battle is ''continual and likely never-ending.''

On Thursday, some lawmakers weighed in. Edward J. Markey, Democrat of
Massachusetts and a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, said ''the data
breach at JPMorgan Chase is yet another example of how Americans' most sensitive
personal information is in danger.''

Hackers drilled deep into the bank's vast computer systems, reaching more than
90 servers, the people with knowledge of the investigation said. As they analyze
the contours of the breach, investigators in law enforcement remain puzzled,
partly because there is no evidence that the attackers looted any money from
customer accounts.

That lack of any apparent profit motive has generated speculation among the law
enforcement officials and security experts that the hackers, which some thought
to be from Southern Europe, may have been sponsored by elements of the Russian
government, the people with knowledge of the investigation said.

By the time the bank's security team discovered the breach in late July, hackers
had already obtained the highest level of administrative privilege to dozens of
the bank's computer servers, according to the people with knowledge of the
investigation. It is still unclear how hackers managed to gain such deep access.

The people with knowledge of the investigation said it would take months for the
bank to swap out its programs and applications and renegotiate licensing deals
with its technology suppliers, possibly giving the hackers time to mine the
bank's systems for unpatched, or undiscovered, vulnerabilities that would allow
them re-entry into JPMorgan's systems.

Beyond its disclosures, JPMorgan did not comment on what its investigation had
found. Kristin Lemkau, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, said that describing the bank's
breach as among the largest was ''comparing apples and oranges.''

Preparing for the disclosure on Thursday, JPMorgan retained the law firm
WilmerHale to help with its regulatory filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, people with knowledge of the matter said. Earlier on Thursday, some
executives -- Barry Sommers, the chief executive of Chase's consumer bank --
flew back to New York from Naples, Fla., where they had convened for a
leadership conference, these people said.

The initial discovery of the hack sent chills down Wall Street and prompted an
investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The bank was also forced
to update its regulators, including the Federal Reserve, on the extent of the
breach.

Faced with the rising threat of online crime, JPMorgan has said it plans to
spend $250 million on digital security annually, but had been losing many of its
security staff to other banks over the last year, with others expected to leave
soon.

After Breach, JPMorgan Still Seeks to Determine Extent of Attack

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/02/jpmorgan-discovers-further-cyber
-security-issues/

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Manhattan headquarters of JPMorgan Chase, which securities
filings revealed was attacked by hackers over the summer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW
BURTON/GETTY IMAGES)
 Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, says that the digital threat is
on the rise. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 9, 2014 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Credit Checks for Jobs

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 234 words


To the Editor:

''Bad Credit? Big Problem'' (editorial, Oct. 6), supporting a New York City ban
on credit checks for all job applicants, doesn't mention the growing threats of
identity theft and cyber-fraud that make background checks for certain highly
sensitive positions more necessary than ever.

You cite precedents for such a ban in other states but do not mention that they
all include common-sense exemptions for jobs that could expose consumers and
employers to particular risks.

We recognize that the City Council is seeking to eliminate prejudice that can
disadvantage certain job seekers, but the use of credit checks is highly
targeted and regulated at the federal level. Standard employer practice is to
conduct checks only for sensitive positions, late in the application process
(after a job interview and often not until a job is offered), and with the
applicant's knowledge and permission.

To safeguard consumers and employers, the bill in New York City should align
with the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's guidance on the
issue, which says that credit checks should be avoided but that ''exceptions
exist if the employer can show that such information is essential to the
particular job in question.'' Indeed, the commission itself runs credit checks
for 84 of its 97 positions.

KATHRYN WYLDE President and Chief Executive Partnership for New York City New
York, Oct. 7, 2014

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/09/opinion/credit-checks-for-jobs.html

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            October 14, 2014 Tuesday

'Human Error' at Website Led to Early Look at JPMorgan Earnings

BYLINE: MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 391 words



HIGHLIGHT: A mistake at a website run by the Nasdaq stock market was to blame
for the release of JPMorgan Chase&#8217;s third-quarter earnings about three and
a half hours early on Tuesday.


An employee's error at a website run by the Nasdaq stock market was to blame for
the early preview that Wall Street and investors got of JPMorgan Chase's
third-quarter earnings on Tuesday morning.

A Nasdaq spokesman blamed "human error" for the early posting of portion of
JPMorgan's earnings release on the Shareholder.com website. The earnings release
went up on the Nasdaq-run website at 3:36 a.m. Eastern time, about three and
half hours before the nation's largest bank was scheduled to officially release
its earnings.

"The root cause was a human error internally at Shareholder.com," said Ryan
Wells, a Nasdaq spokesman. "The issue was contained only to JPMorgan Chase and
did not impact any other Shareholder.com clients."

The mistaken posting occurred when a Shareholder.com employee pushed the wrong
button, said a person briefed on the matter but not authorized to talk. The
earnings release was eventually removed from the Shareholder.com website but not
before it was noticed by reporters working for several news organizations.

On Wall Street, errors in typing in information, known as fat finger mistakes,
are most often associated with brokerage employees typing in the wrong ticker
for a stock or authorizing the wrong number of shares to be traded. The
inadvertent posting of the bank's earnings release had initially prompted
speculation of another potential data hack involving a Wall Street firm.

Earlier this month, JPMorgan disclosed that a summer intrusion of its computer
system compromised the names, addresses and emails of 76 million households and
seven million small businesses. The bank has said that the hackers did not get
access to any Social Security numbers and that there's no evidence the breach
has resulted in any monetary loss to customers.

But the summer cyber assault on JPMorgan has raised concerns on Wall Street and
Main Street about the security of customer information maintained at banks,
brokers and asset management firms. Federal authorities have identified at least
a dozen other financials firms that were either probed or infiltrated by the
unknown hackers who are believed to operating overseas, possibly in Russia.

Nasdaq in the past has had its own issues with hackers. In 2011, hackers broke
into the systems of the Nasdaq, but did not penetrate the part of the stock
market that handles trades.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                           October 16, 2014 Thursday

Today in Small Business: Forget Résumés. Try Videos

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 407 words



HIGHLIGHT: What does Wall Street know that the rest of us don&#8217;t? Are most
Airbnb listings illegal? Why are sandwich makers signing noncompete agreements?



What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.

The Economy


     ·    Business confidence is at a new high, according to a report from Sage.
     ·    Does Wall Street know something the rest of us don't?
     ·    Retail sales declined in September.
     ·    An "alignment of forces" could drive the largest decline in
          second-hand vehicle prices in American history.
     ·    Business activity is slowing for New York manufacturers.
     ·    Walmart cuts its sales growth forecast.
     ·    Gap plans to add 63,000 jobs for the holiday season.
     ·    Mortgage rates dip below 4 percent.


Employees


     ·    One company tries a different approach to hiring: Forget résumés, turn
          to videos.
     ·    Sandwich makers at Jimmy John's are signing noncompete agreements.


Retail


     ·    This chart shows what American retailers fear most.
     ·    Amazon is planning two California "pop-up" stores for the holidays.
     ·    Target takes trick-or-treating to Instagram.
     ·    Halloween shoppers are projected to spend $7.4 billion this year.
     ·    Macy's says that Black Friday will begin at 6 p.m. on Thanksgiving.
     ·    Google Express takes aim at Amazon and expands its same-day delivery
          reach.


Finance


     ·    A special kind of bank will pay you for making a special kind of
          deposit.


The Law


     ·    New York State contends most Airbnb listings are illegal.


Around the Country


     ·    Would-be entrepreneurs flock to a marijuana business conference in
          Manhattan.
     ·    A Connecticut business owner hopes the Foo Fighters can save a local
          youth music venue.
     ·    An all mac-n-cheese restaurant debuts in Southern California.


Around the World


     ·    Markets in Greece nosedive amid the country's political uncertainty.
     ·    A Nigerian-born entrepreneur has some big hurdles to overcome in order
          to bring online shopping to Africa.


Online


     ·    The F.B.I. is accusing China of being behind a string of cyber
          attacks.
     ·    HBO will begin its own streaming service in 2015.


Social Media


     ·    Pizza Hut surpasses one million Twitter followers.


Entrepreneurship


     ·    Here are some tips on getting a freelancing gig from someone who hires
          freelancers.


Opportunities


     ·    Recent research indicates that young people today are walking, biking,
          and riding transit more while driving less than previous generations.


Technology


     ·    A printer spits out messages that actually ignite and self-destruct.
     ·    Google unveils new products.
     ·    Tablet sales are cooling.
     ·    Lockheed may have made a breakthrough in fusion energy.


Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps
clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 19, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

When Uber and Airbnb Meet the Real World

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER.

Claire Cain Miller is a reporter for The Upshot, a New York Times politics and
policy venture.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; SUNDAY REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1131 words


THE regulatory woes seem to be never ending for the newest wave of tech
start-ups -- the on-demand apps that connect people who need something (a
driver, a house cleaner, a grocery shopper) with people who want to do the job.

On Thursday, the New York State attorney general said most Airbnb listings in
the city violated zoning and other laws. Officials in California and
Pennsylvania recently warned car services like Uber and Lyft that they might be
unlawful. And workers' rights advocates have questioned whether the people who
provide these services should receive benefits, spurred by recent reports that
some Homejoy house cleaners are homeless.

Why have these companies run into so many problems? Part of the reason is that
they think of themselves as online companies -- yet they mostly operate in the
offline world.

They subscribe to three core business principles that have become a religion in
Silicon Valley: Serve as a middleman, employ as few people as possible and
automate everything. Those tenets have worked wonders on the web at companies
like Google and Twitter. But as the new, on-demand companies are learning, they
are not necessarily compatible with the real world.

The first principle is to be a middleman -- or in tech lingo, a platform --
connecting the people who post on YouTube with those who watch their videos, or
the people who need a ride with people who will drive them. As platforms, the
thinking goes, they are just connectors, with no responsibility for what happens
there.

For websites, this is codified in law -- they are not legally responsible for
what their users publish, according to the Communications Decency Act, perhaps
the most influential law in the development of the web. That is why Yelp avoids
liability when people post inaccurate or abusive restaurant reviews, and why
YouTube does not have to remove videos that some find offensive.

The law protects online speech, not actions people take in the offline world.
Yet its ethos has permeated Silicon Valley so deeply that people invoke it even
for things that happen offline.

''These folks grew up in a world where platforms are not responsible, and then
when they go do stuff in the real world, they expect that to be the case,'' said
Ryan Calo, an assistant professor at the University of Washington law school who
studies cyber law.

Take Airbnb's terms of service. ''Airbnb provides an online platform that
connects hosts who have accommodations to rent with guests seeking to rent such
accommodations,'' it says. ''Airbnb has no control over the conduct'' of hosts
or guests, the terms continue, and ''disclaims all liability in this regard.''

Yet it is one thing to say a company has no control over the conduct of online
commenters, and another when its users are in people's homes or cars. Airbnb,
like others, has been forced to learn the limits of its status as a platform. In
response to reports of renters' damaging and ransacking homes, it added a
round-the-clock hotline for people in unsafe situations and a policy covering $1
million in loss or damages.

The second web business principle is to minimize the number of paid on-staff
employees. Tech companies have long shunned the idea of hiring lots of sales
staffers or call-center workers. Instead they automate ad sales with auction
algorithms or offer help forums where other customers offer advice on their
sites. When Instagram was acquired by Facebook, it employed 13 people; Kodak, in
its heyday, employed more than 140,000.

That mentality may be why new on-demand companies are running into trouble with
workers. Most of these companies avoid having employees by using contract
workers. But some are wondering whether the companies are pushing the definition
of contract worker too far. Uber drivers have filed class-action lawsuits in
Massachusetts and California, and advocates are pushing for things like benefits
and disability compensation for workers at many start-ups.

The third related principle is to automate everything -- whether selling ads,
flagging inappropriate content or assessing employee performance. That notion
also meets its limits in the real world. When Brian Chesky, the co-founder and
chief executive of Airbnb, responded to complaints about vandalism, he
emphasized that Airbnb had ''algorithms that identify suspicious behavior.''
That's nice, yet algorithms, when people's safety and well-being are involved,
are not enough. Airbnb said it combined automation and human involvement with
100 people who reviewed suspicious activity.

The belief that problems can be solved without involving people is probably why
many of these companies did not meet with regulators and officials before
starting services in new cities. And it has come back to haunt them. Luther
Lowe, director of public policy at Yelp, had some basic advice for Uber that
could apply to Airbnb, Lyft and others: Hire a lobbyist and meet with the mayor
and the city council before setting up shop.

Uber seemed to put that lesson into practice in August when it hired David
Plouffe, an expert in grass-roots campaigning and the manager of President
Obama's winning run in 2008, as a senior policy and strategy executive. ''Our
roots are technology, not politics,'' Travis Kalanick, Uber's co-founder and
chief executive, wrote about the hire. ''The result is that not enough people
here in America and around the world know our story, our mission and the
positive impact we're having.''

DESPITE these three major differences between web companies and the ones that
bridge the digital and physical worlds, they all share another guiding Silicon
Valley principle: the belief that if enough people want to use a product, the
company will succeed.

Web companies like Google and Twitter grew as quickly as they could, trusting
that they would figure out how to make money later. Business software companies
hope that if employees start using a new software tool at work, the I.T.
department will give in. On-demand start-ups are betting that if they get enough
consumers on their side, regulators will eventually come around.

''This libertarian, independent streak that runs through Silicon Valley
compounds the issue,'' said Julie Samuels, executive director of Engine, which
advises start-ups on policy. ''The good side is, it created this environment
where people came together and made crazy amazing stuff that changed the world.
The flip side is, sometimes it makes it difficult for those companies to
engage.''

That leads to yet another principle shared by both older and newer tech
companies: Regulators are little more than roadblocks standing in the way of
innovation.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/19/upshot/when-uber-lyft-and-airbnb-meet-the-real
-world.html

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EIKO OJALA)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                            October 21, 2014 Tuesday

Today in Small Business: Is Apple Pay the Future of Money?

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 452 words



HIGHLIGHT: How one start-up made its first hires. Why a travel ban is not going
to happen. Should you have to pay to make a restaurant reservation?


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.

The Economy


     ·    A report finds that five years into a recovery, 65 percent of
          Americans think the United States is on the "wrong track."
     ·    Here is why deflation is scary.
     ·    McDonald's profit falls 30 percent (and here are its five problems in
          the United States).
     ·    The Federal Housing Finance Agency is loosening rules on mortgages.


Employees


     ·    Here's what one start-up looked for in its first hires.
     ·    Wage increases grow scarcer even as hiring remains strong, according
          to a survey.
     ·    Here are seven low-cost steps to help employees who suffer from
          depression.
     ·    This portable cardboard desk will keep you standing while you type.


Technology


     ·    In its fourth quarter, Apple "kills it."
     ·    This is a step-by-step guide for setting up Apple Pay. And here are
          all of the places where you can use it. But is it the future of money
     ·    In the 1960s, women made up about 50 percent of all computer
          programmers.


Health Insurance


     ·    Small-business health exchanges are seeing major changes.


Small-Business Law


     ·    Disability lawsuits against small businesses are soaring.


Around the Country


     ·    In North Carolina, it's like Fashion Week for the furniture world.
     ·    Fall foliage is worth billions to New England's economy.
     ·    Executives in a recent survey say Texas has the best business climate
          in the country.


Around the World


     ·    The World Trade Organization rejected country-of-origin rules for
          meat.
     ·    China is sending mixed economic signals.


Start-Up


     ·    A start-up that manages customer subscriptions lands $12 million in
          new financing.
     ·    Here are 30 compelling reasons to start a business.


Management


     ·    Here is how one business owner is grooming her children to take over.
     ·    This explains how Reebok lost its game.


Online


     ·    Here are five ways small businesses can compete with the giants in
          search engine optimization.


Retail


     ·    Here are three tips to reduce Cyber Monday returns.
     ·    Half of holiday shoppers say they'll avoid stores that got hacked.


Entrepreneurship


     ·    Warren Buffett teaches children how to become business owners.


Business Travel


     ·    A travel ban would be politically popular, but this is why it's not
          happening.
     ·    Here is how to survive as a bicoastal entrepreneur.


Marketing


     ·    Here are 13 brilliant and outlandish marketing stunts used by Richard
          Branson.


Pricing


     ·    Should you have to pay to make a restaurant reservation


Finance


     ·    Could venture capitalists be humanity's last hope


Social Media


     ·    Twitter is offering new tools for developers.
     ·    Tinder will add a premium service.
     ·    Monica Lewinskyjoins Twitter.
     ·    Here is how to give your Facebook page a holiday makeover.


Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps
clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            October 21, 2014 Tuesday

After JPMorgan Cyberattack, a Push to Fortify Wall Street Banks

BYLINE: JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1435 words



HIGHLIGHT: Federal and state regulators are said to be discussing fortification
of a critical area of cybersecurity: outside vendors, including law firms,
accounting and marketing firms and even janitorial companies.


This summer's huge cyberattack on JPMorgan Chase and a dozen other financial
institutions is accelerating efforts by federal and state authorities to push
banks and brokerage firms to close some gaping holes in their defenses.

Top officials at the Treasury Department are discussing the need to bolster
fortifications around a critical area of cybersecurity: outside vendors, which
include law firms, accounting and marketing firms and even janitorial companies,
according to several people briefed on the matter.

The sweeping effort began before the hack on JPMorgan, which compromised some of
the personal account information of 76 million households and seven million
small businesses, the people said. Under discussion is a requirement that the
banks put in place more stringent procedures and safeguards to make sure the
outside firms have, at the least, basic defenses.

The push by government officials is a stark acknowledgment of the vulnerability
of financial institutions - even after they have spent hundreds of millions of
dollars to protect themselves - to an attack if one of their vendors is not
fully prepared. The problem is causing some security consultants to privately
consider whether the sprawling financial firms with operations across the globe
may be "too big to secure." And smaller firms, the consultants say, may simply
not have the ability to adequately defend customer information.

The attack on JPMorgan, along with earlier breaches at Target and Home Depot,
has already made Americans wary of the security of their personal information.

At a dinner in New York on Tuesday evening that is expected to include the
general counsels from JPMorgan, Bank of America and Deutsche Bank, New York
State's top financial regulator, Benjamin M. Lawsky is expected to emphasize the
gathering danger to the financial system when vendors' security is lax,
according to one of the people briefed on the matter. The remarks, at the
University Club in Midtown Manhattan, come as Mr. Lawsky is considering a new
rule that would require banks to "obtain representations and warranties" from
vendors about the adequacy of their controls to thwart hackers, the people said.

As part of that proposal, Mr. Lawsky sent a letter on Tuesday to dozens of banks
requesting that the firms provide "any policies and procedures governing
relationships with third-party service providers," according to a copy of the
letter reviewed by The New York Times. In the letter, Mr. Lawsky says that banks
must also outline "the due diligence processes used to evaluate" the security
procedures of all vendors.

"It is abundantly clear that, in many respects," Mr. Lawsky said in the letter,
"a firm's level of cybersecurity is only as good as the cybersecurity of its
vendors."

Mr. Lawsky's proposal mirrors some of the discussions underway at the Treasury
Department, the people said. In July, Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
highlighted the importance of cybersecurity to the global financial system in a
speech at an investment conference. In that address, Mr. Lew said his deputy,
Sarah Bloom Raskin, "would be working with federal and state agencies to reduce
cyber risks to the financial system," but he did not discuss the specific
measures being considered.

The increasingly urgent discussions reverberating through Washington and New
York come as the Securities and Exchange Commission is conducting an audit of 50
firms to assess their readiness for cyberattacks as well as their relationships
with vendors. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority is conducting its own
broad look at how American brokerage firms and asset management firms deal with
assaults from hackers and how they oversee their vendors. Other regulators are
examining the preparedness of 500 community banks and credit union for dealing
with an attack.

Wall Street's reliance on third-party vendors has come under fire before, most
prominently in the aftermath of the financial crisis, when banks used outside
law firms to handle mass foreclosures in what turned into a flawed process.
Those practices led to a landmark $25 billion foreclosure abuse settlement
between the government and five major banks two years ago.

The latest scrutiny of vendors signals a new recognition that cybercrime
represents one of the greatest threats to the stability of the financial system.
In attack after attack, hackers are rebuffed by financial institutions only to
slip through the cracks at vendors, including some that have virtually no
security.

The attack that roiled Target last year and exposed the information of 40
million cardholders and 70 million others came from hackers breaking into the
security system of a heating and cooling contractor that was doing work for the
retailer. The same overseas hackers that breached JPMorgan's network also
infiltrated the website for the JPMorgan Corporate Challenge, which is run by an
outside vendor for the bank on a server maintained by an Internet firm in Ann
Arbor, Mich.

JPMorgan discovered the attack on the Corporate Challenge website on Aug. 7, and
learned of the far broader breach of its own system about a week later. The
attack on the bank's network - which enabled the hackers to gain a high level of
system privileges on more than 90 servers - began sometime in June and went
undiscovered by JPMorgan for about two months, said another person briefed on
the matter but not authorized to speak publicly.

The length of the attack - a two-month period when hackers roamed freely through
JPMorgan's systems - has not been previously reported. Two months may seem a
long time for largely unfettered access to JPMorgan, but security consultants
note it is not uncommon for hackers to rummage through a big company's network
for several months before being detected.

Federal authorities believe the hackers, some of whom may be from Russia, were
not acting with the backing of a foreign government and were motivated solely by
profit. JPMorgan said no financial information was taken and it has not seen any
evidence of fraud from the information taken in the attacks on its computers and
the Corporate Challenge website, which included names, addresses, phone numbers
and email addresses.

Still, it remains unclear just how the hackers got into JPMorgan's network, and
the bank has determined that they did not gain access to JPMorgan's computer
systems through the Corporate Challenge website.

"We have no evidence to indicate that attackers compromised a third party to
gain access to our network as part of this incident," Patricia Wexler, a
JPMorgan spokeswoman said, referring broadly to vendor security.

Still, security consultants and government officials are zeroing in on vendors
as they work to choke off access to the global financial system.

"I would put vendor security as a top concern," said John Reed Stark, former
chief of the S.E.C.'s Office of Internet Enforcement and a managing director at
Stroz Friedberg, a data breach response firm. "I am certainly seeing more and
more entities being very rigorous when it comes to their relationships with
third parties and cybersecurity."

"In some contracts, companies even contractually secure the right to require, in
the event of a breach or compromise, that the vendor conduct an independent risk
and security audit at the vendor's own expense," Mr. Stark said.

The notion of requiring financial institutions to get "reps and warranties" from
vendors about their security might make it difficult for smaller firms to sell
their wares and services to banks and brokers and harder for smaller financial
firms to pay for them. But at the same time, beefing up vendor security could
prove an important way to quarantine an attack.

Susan F. Axelrod, executive vice president of regulatory operations at the
financial industry's regulating agency, said financial firms not only needed to
improve their criteria in hiring vendors but also continue to monitor the
providers for security during the course of a contract and then pay particular
attention to what happens when a vendor's work is done. "The process of
terminating a relationship is key," Ms. Axelrod said. "You have to immediately
terminate vendor access and passwords."

She suggested that contracts with vendors "deal upfront" with the process of
ending a relationship and safeguarding access to a firm's computer network. By
the end of the year, the agency expects to publish what it considers best
practices for dealing with vendors and cybersecurity, a product of its review of
18 large to midsize brokerage firms.

Ways to Protect Yourself After the JPMorgan Hacking

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 22, 2014 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Breach, Push to Close Security Gaps

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1438 words


This summer's huge cyberattack on JPMorgan Chase and a dozen other financial
institutions is accelerating efforts by federal and state authorities to push
banks and brokerage firms to close some gaping holes in their defenses.

Top officials at the Treasury Department are discussing the need to bolster
fortifications around a critical area of cybersecurity: outside vendors, which
include law firms, accounting and marketing firms and even janitorial companies,
according to several people briefed on the matter.

The sweeping effort began before the hacking of JPMorgan, which compromised some
of the personal account information of 76 million households and seven million
small businesses, the people said. Under discussion is a requirement that the
banks put in place more stringent procedures and safeguards to make sure the
outside firms have, at the least, basic defenses.

The push by government officials is a stark acknowledgment of the vulnerability
of financial institutions to an attack -- even after they have spent hundreds of
millions of dollars to protect themselves -- if one of their vendors is not
fully prepared.

The problem is causing some security consultants to privately consider whether
the sprawling financial firms with operations across the globe may be ''too big
to secure.'' And smaller firms, the consultants say, may simply not have the
ability to adequately defend customer information.

The attack on JPMorgan, along with earlier breaches at Target and Home Depot,
has made Americans even more wary about security of their personal information.
JPMorgan said that the hackers did not infiltrate the bank's systems through a
third party vendor.

Still, in the aftermath of the attack, the issue of data security has gained
momentum. At a dinner in New York on Tuesday evening that included the general
counsels from JPMorgan, Bank of America and Deutsche Bank on the guest list, New
York State's top financial regulator, Benjamin M. Lawsky, emphasized the
gathering danger to the financial system when vendors' security is lax,
according to one of the people briefed on the matter. Mr. Lawsky, who delivered
his remarks at the University Club in Midtown Manhattan, is considering a new
rule that would require banks to ''obtain representations and warranties'' from
vendors about the adequacy of their controls to thwart hackers, the people said.

As part of that proposal, Mr. Lawsky sent a letter on Tuesday to dozens of banks
requesting that the firms provide ''any policies and procedures governing
relationships with third-party service providers,'' according to a copy of the
letter reviewed by The New York Times. In the letter, Mr. Lawsky says that banks
must also outline ''the due diligence processes used to evaluate'' the security
procedures of all vendors.

''It is abundantly clear that, in many respects,'' Mr. Lawsky said in the
letter, ''a firm's level of cybersecurity is only as good as the cybersecurity
of its vendors.''

Mr. Lawsky's proposal mirrors some of the discussions underway at the Treasury
Department, the people said. In July, Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
highlighted the importance of online security to the global financial system in
a speech at an investment conference. In that address, Mr. Lew said his deputy,
Sarah Bloom Raskin, ''would be working with federal and state agencies to reduce
cyber-risks to the financial system,'' but he did not discuss the specific
measures being considered.

The Securities and Exchange Commission is conducting an audit of 50 firms to
assess their readiness for attacks as well as their relationships with vendors.
The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority is conducting its own broad look at
how American brokerage firms and asset management firms deal with assaults from
hackers and how they oversee their vendors. Other regulators are examining the
preparedness of 500 community banks and credit unions for dealing with an
attack.

Wall Street's reliance on third-party vendors has come under fire before, most
prominently after the financial crisis, when banks used outside law firms to
handle mass foreclosures in what turned out to be a flawed process. Those
practices led to a landmark $25 billion foreclosure abuse settlement between the
government and five major banks two years ago.

The latest scrutiny of vendors signals a new recognition that cybercrime
represents one of the greatest threats to the stability of the financial system.
In attack after attack, hackers are rebuffed by financial institutions, only to
slip through the cracks at vendors, including some that have virtually no
security.

The attack that roiled Target last year and exposed the information of 40
million cardholders and 70 million others came from hackers breaking into the
security system of a heating and cooling contractor that was doing work for the
retailer. The same overseas hackers who breached JPMorgan's network also
infiltrated the website for the JPMorgan Corporate Challenge, which is run by an
outside vendor for the bank on a server maintained by an Internet firm in Ann
Arbor, Mich.

JPMorgan discovered the attack on the Corporate Challenge website on Aug. 7, and
learned of the far broader breach of its own system about a week later. The
attack on the bank's network -- which enabled the hackers to gain a high level
of system privileges on more than 90 servers -- began sometime in June and went
undiscovered by JPMorgan for about two months, said another person briefed on
the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity.

Two months may seem a long time for largely unfettered access, but security
consultants note it is not uncommon for hackers to rummage through a big
company's network for several months before being detected.

Federal authorities say they believe the hackers, some of whom may be from
Russia, were not acting with the backing of a foreign government and were
motivated solely by profit. JPMorgan said no financial information was taken and
it had not seen any evidence of fraud from the information taken in the attacks
on its computers and the Corporate Challenge website, which included names,
addresses, phone numbers and email addresses.

Still, it remains unclear just how the hackers got into JPMorgan's network, and
the bank has determined that they did not gain access to JPMorgan's computer
systems through the Corporate Challenge website.

''We have no evidence to indicate that attackers compromised a third party to
gain access to our network as part of this incident,'' Patricia Wexler, a
JPMorgan spokeswoman said, referring broadly to vendor security.

Still, security consultants and government officials are zeroing in on vendors
as they work to choke off access to the global financial system.

''I would put vendor security as a top concern,'' said John Reed Stark, former
chief of the S.E.C.'s Office of Internet Enforcement and a managing director at
Stroz Friedberg, a data breach response firm. ''I am certainly seeing more and
more entities being very rigorous when it comes to their relationships with
third parties and cybersecurity.''

''In some contracts, companies even contractually secure the right to require,
in the event of a breach or compromise, that the vendor conduct an independent
risk and security audit at the vendor's own expense,'' Mr. Stark said.

The notion of requiring financial institutions to get ''reps and warranties''
from vendors about their security might make it difficult for smaller firms to
sell their wares and services to banks and brokers and harder for smaller
financial firms to pay for them. But at the same time, beefing up vendor
security could prove an important way to quarantine an attack.

Susan F. Axelrod, executive vice president of regulatory operations at the
financial industry's regulating agency, said financial firms needed to improve
their criteria in hiring vendors, continue to monitor the providers for security
during the course of a contract and then pay particular attention to what
happens when a vendor's work is done. ''The process of terminating a
relationship is key,'' Ms. Axelrod said. ''You have to immediately terminate
vendor access and passwords.''

She suggested that contracts with vendors ''deal upfront'' with the process of
ending a relationship and safeguarding access to a firm's computer network. By
the end of the year, the agency expects to publish what it considers best
practices for dealing with vendors and cybersecurity, a product of its review of
18 large to midsize brokerage firms.

Ways to Protect Yourself After the JPMorgan Hacking

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/21/after-jpmorgan-cyberattack-a-push-to-fort
ify-wall-street-banks/

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In a speech in July, Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew highlighted
the importance of online security to the global financial system. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 24, 2014 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Wheelies: The Captain America Edition

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN PRESTON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 594 words


A roundup of motoring news from the web:

â-  The motorcycle that Peter Fonda supposedly rode in the 1969 film ''Easy
Rider'' sold for $1.35 million Saturday at an auction in California. Mr. Fonda
had expressed doubt before the sale that the American flag-decorated bike, which
was owned by Michael Eisenberg, a collector in Los Angeles, was in the movie.
Regardless of its authenticity, it ranks among the most expensive motorcycles
sold at public auction. (CNBC)

â-  After throwing a fund-raising party featuring a steak dinner and a Beach
Boys concert, the Petersen Automotive Museum in Los Angeles closed for
renovations. Peter Mullin, the museum's chairman, said it would open again in
about a year after the interior had been redone and the exterior replaced with
an avant-garde facade. (The Los Angeles Times)

â-  Amid falling fuel prices and weak alternative-fuel vehicle sales, Ford is
cutting the price of its Focus electric car for the second time this year.
Starting Oct. 13, the automaker reduced the price by $6,000 to $29,995,
including shipping and delivery fees. Autodata, an industry analyst, said that
Focus E.V. sales through September were down 6.6 percent over last year, at
176,156 units. (The Detroit News)

â-  Although production of the Dodge Viper was halted in April, a $15,000 price
cut in September seems to have caused a spike in sales. Last September, the
automaker sold 45 Vipers, but after the price cut it sold 108 of the $87,000
cars, for a year-to-date total of 546 units. According to a report from
Automotive News, production is scheduled to restart next month. (Automobile
Magazine)

â-  David Strickland, the former head of the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration, who is now a lawyer for a consulting firm, said this week at a
conference in Detroit that the agency and the auto industry were working
together to prevent hackers and terrorists from stealing information from
technologically advanced new vehicles. He said that over the next year or two,
the industry and the government would assemble the Information Sharing Advisory
Center to keep various parties abreast of the latest cyber threats. (The Detroit
Free Press)

â-  Michigan has become the latest state to ban Tesla Motors, the electric-car
maker, from using its direct-sales model there Gov. Rick Snyder signed the bill
into law Tuesday, forcing Tesla to sell its vehicles through third-party
dealerships or go elsewhere. (Forbes)

â-  The 1971 Dodge Challenger pace car that injured 30 photographers at the
start of the 1971 Indianapolis 500 will be on display with a group of Indy 500
pace cars at the Muscle Car and Corvette Nationals in Rosemont, Ill., Nov.
22-23. Eldon Palmer, the car dealer driving the car, had inadvertently locked up
the brakes at more than 100 miles per hour, causing the car to skid into the
grandstand with John Glenn, the astronaut; Tony Hulman, the owner of the
Indianapolis Speedway; and an ABC correspondent riding in the car. (Racer)

â-  The last of a collection of automotive line cuts -- engraved stamps used by
newspapers and other publications to print generic renderings of popular cars
and trucks -- are gradually being sold off at swap meets. Jim Graney, a photo
engraver who started in the trade in 1946 when he was 15, had collected many of
them over his 50-year career, and they were often used by publishers for
classified ads when no photos were available. Mr. Graney said his children had
been selling them a few at a time since 1982, and that, within five to eight
years, they will all be gone. (Hemmings Daily)

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/24/automobiles/wheelies-the-captain-america-editi
on.html

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 28, 2014 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Albums From Jerry Lee Lewis and Daniel Lanois

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF, JON CARAMANICA and NATE CHINEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; NEW MUSIC; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1162 words


JERRY LEE LEWIS

''Rock & Roll Time''

(Vanguard)

Jerry Lee Lewis's ''Rock & Roll Time'' sounds like an after-hours session with
famous friends, vintage guitars and a half-planned set list. Why not? Jerry Lee
Lewis is a rebel, an authentic person; let him make an authentic record. Free
him from restrictions!

It isn't that simple anymore, if it ever was. A lot of great Southern singers
from the 1950s and '60s have made late-career records like this over the last 20
years, and gradually, authenticity has become artifice like anything else, a
direct route to a Grammy Award. This one -- timed for simultaneous release with
''Jerry Lee Lewis: His Own Story,'' an authorized biography by Rick Bragg -- is
roughly in the same line as Mr. Lewis's last two studio albums, ''Last Man
Standing'' (2006) and ''Mean Old Man'' (2010), and some of it comes from the
same sessions, with Jim Keltner as the authentic-sounding drummer (and also one
of its producers).

Those earlier records set up Mr. Lewis in duets with famous people. A few of
those same people, including Keith Richards and Neil Young, are here again, but
in secondary roles, rougher and more anonymous. You could hear this album's
version of Jimmy Reed's ''Bright Lights, Big City'' and not know that Mr. Young
played the guitar solo and sang harmony on it -- or, for that matter, that Ivan
Neville played organ on it. That's an anti-contrivance and almost a concept,
though it isn't seen through; the lineup changes for each track, and sometimes
the famous guests (Derek Trucks, Shelby Lynne) are easily recognizable.

The repertory? A couple of Kris Kristofferson songs, one rebellious and one
sentimental; a blues written by Bob Dylan (''Stepchild'') ; and several
three-chord blues and rock standards, including Chuck Berry's ''Little Queenie''
and ''Promised Land.''

On all of them, Mr. Lewis sounds peaceful, steady-rolling; this is as easy for
him as falling off a log. What's missing is the thing he's great at: creating a
feeling of surprise or danger. That comes through on a different record, ''The
Knox Phillips Sessions,'' taken from unreleased demo tapes recorded in the late
'70s and released last month by Time-Life Music; on it, Mr. Lewis is
hoarse-voiced, inventive, powerful. It also comes through when he performs, and
you should see him while you can. He will play at B. B. King Blues Club & Grill
this Thursday. BEN RATLIFF

RUN THE JEWELS

''Run the Jewels 2''

(Mass Appeal)

Like-minded dissenters with opposite back stories, El-P and Killer Mike are each
on, at minimum, their third act in the duo Run the Jewels. In the late '90s,
El-P was the clarion voice charting independent hip-hop's anticapitalist turf
and helping keep alive dissonance in a genre largely given over to melody.
Killer Mike parlayed proximity to Outkast to become a roughneck firebrand.

No wonder each had a burnout period, and what good fortune that they found each
other. ''Run the Jewels 2'' is their second collaborative album (third, if you
count Killer Mike's ''R.A.P. Music'' album, which El-P produced), and it's a
reconciliation of ideas that might not have been allowed in the same room a
decade or so ago. But even though these two spent their spotlight years in
different places, they both trace their aesthetic arcs back to Public Enemy's
chaotic bombast, and it's that urgency that they bring to this album.

These are pummeling cyber-howls, these songs. They're skeptical of the
government, of complacency, of the opiated masses. On ''Lie, Cheat, Steal,''
Killer Mike tries to unpack the reality of power relations:

You really made it or just became a prisoner of privilege?

You willing to share that information that you've been given?

Like who really run this?

Like who really run that man that say he run this?

Throughout the album, it's Killer Mike who hits the hardest, with the scathing,
wounded indictment of police brutality ''Early,'' and the self-lacerating
''Crown,'' on which he details the guilt associated with selling drugs. Deep
down, and now on the outside, Killer Mike is a righteous humanist. One of the
starkest contrasts on this album is how that holds up against El-P's natural
fatalism. Also, how Killer Mike's rhyme patterns are round like a barrel, while
El-P raps in shards (though he does a convincing Southern cadence on ''Lie,
Cheat, Steal'').

Musically, this album -- full of industrial-strength groans and vibrations,
rat-tat-tat snares, and failing-spaceship noise -- is a baronial assault, with
production largely handled by El-P, who describes himself as ''A dirty boy who
come down on the side of dissonance/I can't even relax without sirens off in the
distances.'' It's a middle ground between the dustier but still anarchic work he
did for Company Flow and his often paranoiac solo work.

In word and in sound, he's given to imagistic extremism, but now he has a true
partner in rhyme. Run the Jewels is two seen-it-all rappers who trust each other
not to drop their shared vision. Note the frequency with which the two weave
references to the group's name and gun-and-fist logo into their verses, wanting
to etch them in lyrics so as to make sure that they don't go anywhere. JON
CARAMANICA

DANIEL LANOIS

''Flesh and Machine'' (Anti-)

There's a reason for the word order of ''Flesh and Machine,'' which Daniel
Lanois chose as the title of his atmospheric, process-driven new album. A
collection of sonic assemblages, from clangorous abstraction to catchy, wordless
pop, it evokes an oldfangled form of technological mediation: not a D.J. running
programs on a laptop, so much as the wizard behind the curtain, twisting knobs.

Mr. Lanois has, of course, logged many hours behind that curtain, as a trusted
producer for the likes of Bob Dylan, U2 and Neil Young. He has also pursued a
looser ideal of live performance -- in his band, Black Dub, and in his solo
guises, drawing from multiple strains of folk music. ''Flesh and Machine'' is an
attempt to merge those areas of expertise.

Most of these tracks began with electric or steel guitar, drums and piano,
morphing in shape by way of electronic sampling and processing. This is hardly a
new concept, but Mr. Lanois knows how to put an accessible stamp on his more
experimental protocols.

''Opera,'' with its low thrum and clattering drum programming, hints at 1990s
drum and bass; ''Iceland,'' with its reflective, slow-moving melody, suggests
the brooding side of indie-rock. On ''My First Love,'' a confectionary bite of
vintage pop, Mr. Lanois uses the same Suzuki Omnichord that he played with Brian
Eno more than 30 years ago.

The album's most bracing moment arrives early, with ''The End,'' featuring a
heated free improvisation by the drummer Brian Blade, against crashing waves of
distorted guitar. It's one of the handful of moments when you feel the presence
of human variability on the album -- and a good advertisement for the tour on
which Mr. Lanois is about to embark. It reaches the Brooklyn Masonic Temple on
Nov. 10. NATE CHINEN

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/28/arts/music/albums-from-jerry-lee-lewis-and-dan
iel-lanois.html

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Daniel Lanois at Landmark's Sunshine Cinema in the East
Village. Mr. Lanois's variety will be on display at the Brooklyn Masonic Temple
on Nov. 10. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRAD BARKET/GETTY IMAGES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 29, 2014 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Protesters in Hong Kong on Edge as Police Track Their Online Footprints

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FORSYTHE and ALAN WONG

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1303 words


HONG KONG -- At 6:49 a.m. on Oct. 17, not long after the police completed a
predawn operation to clear a volatile protest camp in Hong Kong's densely
populated Mong Kok neighborhood, someone posted a ''call to action'' on a
popular online forum, urging residents to retake the streets.

''Tonight, if you're a man, let's revive Mong Kok,'' a user calling himself Li
Siu-ming wrote on the HKGolden website. ''If there are no other options, we will
have to blockade the railway station, paralyze the MTR,'' he added, referring to
the city's subway system.

There was little to distinguish his posts from others online about the
pro-democracy demonstrations that have disrupted Hong Kong for more than a
month. But the next day, the police demanded user data related to his messages,
according to HKGolden's manager.

Several hours later, officers arrested a 23-year-old man at his home, saying he
had ''incited others on an online forum to join the unlawful assembly in Mong
Kok, to charge at police and to paralyze the railways.'' In announcing the
arrest, a police spokesman, Hui Chun-tak, made a sweeping assertion: It is a
crime in Hong Kong to post messages calling on people to attend the protests.

''I stress, inciting others to commit criminal acts on the Internet is
illegal,'' he said.

The warning, along with a refusal to disclose more information about the case,
has heightened fear that the authorities in this former British colony have
begun to police the Internet using methods more often associated with the
security forces in mainland China, where web censorship is routine and a
crackdown on online dissent has been underway for more than a year.

Hong Kong has enjoyed a high degree of autonomy since its return to Chinese rule
in 1997, retaining a Western-style legal system and protections for freedom of
speech. But concern about China's growing influence and anxiety that the
territory is becoming more like the rest of China have helped fuel protests
demanding open elections for the city's next leader.

''The protests are about protecting these Hong Kong values and freedoms from
mainland encroachment,'' said Maya Wang, a Hong Kong-based researcher for Human
Rights Watch, adding that the arrest ''raises suspicions and questions precisely
about these values' being eroded.''

Given the protests, she said, it is ''even more urgent for the government to
clarify why this act of law enforcement is not encroaching on these freedoms.''

The police have declined to provide the exact language that prompted the arrest
or to confirm any link to the messages posted on the HKGolden forum. But Joe
Lam, the site's chief executive, said officers had demanded that he provide them
with the Internet Protocol addresses and messages associated with the Li
Siu-ming account.

In addition to the call to paralyze the subway system if necessary, the user
urged protesters to ''force the police to use force'' when retaking the Mong Kok
site. After protesters succeeded in re-establishing the camp, he got back online
and suggested at 1:57 a.m. on Oct. 18 that they ''charge Lung Wo,'' referring to
a street outside the Hong Kong government's office secured by the police.

But the next day, he reported that officers had come to his home and arrested
him for messages supporting the protesters.

''I just got home after giving a statement,'' he wrote. ''So gloomy. Technology
Crime Division. Be careful.''

The police have identified the suspect only by his surname, Tam, and said he had
been released on bail pending an investigation. Mr. Tam initially sought the
help of a group of lawyers and volunteers associated with the protest
organizers; they said his full name was Tam Hiu-fung.

In a private message on the HKGolden site, the person using the account declined
to comment but confirmed his name was Tam Hiu-fung. ''I don't want to go into
details about my background. It's not important,'' he said when reached by
telephone. ''I'm an ordinary Hong Kong youngster. I just want to do something
for Hong Kong.''

In Hong Kong's legal system, the government can use an arrest as an early step
in a criminal inquiry, allowing the police to gather evidence before deciding
with prosecutors whether to file charges. But even if the police drop the case,
Mr. Tam's arrest may already have served a purpose.

''It scares people away. The chilling effect is already there,'' said Charles
Mok, who represents the information technology sector in the Legislative Council
and supports the protest movement. People ''are worried that the police are
watching closely and they would get in trouble posting messages,'' he said.

Mr. Mok said the police were abusing a broadly written statute that prohibits
using a computer ''with criminal or dishonest intent.'' The statute was intended
to prosecute fraud, hacking and other online crimes, he said, not political
speech.

The law, known as Section 161, has been used at least once before to prosecute
online speech related to the protests in Hong Kong. In June, the police arrested
a 15-year-old boy for posting a guide online on how to storm the Legislative
Council building. Prosecutors decided to file charges against him in late
September, the local news media reported.

It is unclear what drew the police to Mr. Tam. The pro-democracy movement has
relied heavily on social media and messaging apps to organize and mobilize
protesters, and statements urging people to turn out for the demonstrations or
even to confront the police are rife on local websites, as well as on Facebook
and Twitter.

Messages advocating violence are less common but can be found among both
protesters and those who support the government, raising the question of
selective prosecution.

''Open fire and kill those animals. Watching it makes my blood boil,'' one
Facebook user opposed to the protests wrote on Oct. 16, commenting on a video of
a clash between demonstrators and the police.

The police did not answer written questions about the Technology Crime Division.
In July, the territory's security chief, Lai Tung-kwok, told the legislature
that the police conducted ''cyber patrols'' but said he had no statistics on how
many prosecutions had resulted from information gathered on the Internet. He
also did not answer a lawmaker's question on how many officers were assigned to
such patrols.

But Mr. Lam, the chief executive of the HKGolden forum, which has more than
300,000 registered users, said he received requests for information from the
police about once a month. He said he was obliged to comply and cited a Hong
Kong ordinance that says an individual's right to data privacy does not apply
when a crime is being prevented or investigated.

If the authorities prosecute Mr. Tam, the case could pose a remarkable test for
the Hong Kong legal system. In courthouses that fly the Chinese flag,
prosecutors and defense lawyers would almost certainly cite case law from
Britain and the United States, despite China's charges of ''foreign
interference'' in Hong Kong affairs.

Hong Kong has no specific law on incitement, so how courts elsewhere have
decided similar cases takes on added importance, said Simon Young, an associate
dean and law professor at the University of Hong Kong.

Prosecutors could cite a 1976 case in Britain in which a company was
successfully prosecuted for incitement when it advertised a radar detector used
to avoid police speed traps. But judges are also likely to consider the United
States Supreme Court's 1969 Brandenburg decision, which held that advocacy of
violence cannot be punished unless it was both intended to incite ''imminent
lawless action'' and ''likely to incite or produce such action.''

Because there is no indication that Mr. Tam is a protest leader, it may be
difficult for prosecutors to establish the latter. ''It's not an easy offense to
prove,'' Mr. Young said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/29/world/asia/in-hong-kong-fears-of-a-police-crac
kdown-online.html

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pro-democracy activists on Tuesday. It is a crime in Hong Kong
to post messages calling for people to attend the demonstrations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
CHRIS MCGRATH/GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 31, 2014 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Russian Boldness Revives a Cold War Tradition: Testing the Other Side

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and NICOLE PERLROTH; David E. Sanger reported from
Washington, and Nicole Perlroth from San Francisco.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1163 words


WASHINGTON -- When the White House discovered in recent weeks that its
unclassified computer systems had been breached, intelligence officials examined
the digital evidence and focused on a prime suspect: Russia, which they believe
is using its highly sophisticated cyber capabilities to test American defenses.
But its tracks were well covered, and officials say they may never know for
sure.

They have no doubt, however, about what happened this week on the edges of NATO
territory in Europe. More than two dozen Russian aircraft, including four Tu-95
strategic bombers, flew through the Baltic and Black Seas, along the coast of
Norway and all the way to Portugal, staying over international waters but
prompting NATO forces to send up intercepting aircraft.

Taken together, they represent the old and the updated techniques of Cold War
signal-sending. In the Soviet era, both sides probed each other's defenses,
hoping to learn something from the reaction those tests of will created. In
2014, cyber is the new weapon, one that can be used with less restraint, and
because its creators believe they cannot be traced and can create a bit of havoc
without prompting a response.

In this case, the response was that the White House shut down use of some of its
networks for lengthy periods -- more an inconvenience than anything else, but a
sign of the fragility of the system to sophisticated attacks.

But in both, divining the motive of the probes and the advantage, if any, they
created is far from easy.

The Russian aircraft exercises were part of a broader escalation: NATO has
conducted more than 100 intercepts of Russian aircraft this year, its officials
report, far more than last year, before Russia annexed Crimea and began its
operations in Ukraine.

''This is message-sending by Putin, and it's dangerous,'' one senior defense
official said Wednesday, noting that in many cases, the Russian aircraft had
turned off their transponders and did not reply to radio calls to identify
themselves. In response, Germany, Portugal, Turkey and Denmark sent aircraft
aloft, along with two non-NATO nations, Finland and Sweden. They were
particularly struck by the use of the Tu-95 bombers, which Russia usually keeps
clear of Europe.

But what's new is the sophistication of Russia's cyberespionage campaigns, which
differ somewhat from China's. The Chinese attacks -- like those led by Unit
61398 of the People's Liberation Army, whose members were indicted earlier this
year by the Justice Department -- are aimed chiefly at intellectual property
theft. The Russians do a bit of that, too, but the attacks also suggest more
disruptive motives.

Last year, security researchers at several American cybersecurity companies
uncovered a Russian cyberespionage campaign, in which Russian hackers were
systematically hacking more than one thousand Western oil and gas computers, and
energy investment firms. The first motive, given Moscow's dependence on its oil
and gas industry, was likely industrial espionage. But the manner in which
hackers were choosing their targets also seemed intended to seize control of
industrial control systems remotely, in much the same way the United States and
Israel were able to take control of the Iranian nuclear facility at Natanz when
it attacked its computer systems with malware through the summer of 2010,
disabling a fifth of Iran's centrifuges at the time.

In the case of the attack on the White House's unclassified computer system,
officials say no data was destroyed. ''The activity of concern is not being used
to enable a destructive attack,'' Bernadette Meehan, the spokeswoman for the
National Security Council, said Thursday. She would not say which country or
hacking group was suspected of being behind the attack.

But there is evidence that the internal alarms at the White House were not set
off -- a sign of the sophistication of the attack. Instead, the United States
was alerted by a ''friendly ally,'' one official said. That suggests the ally
saw the results of the attack on a foreign network, perhaps picking up evidence
of what data had been lifted.

Armond Caglar, a cybersecurity expert for TSC Advantage, a consultancy in
Washington that focuses on these kinds of attacks, said the motive could be ''to
test what the security culture is, or to get valuable information about the
security posture at the White House.''

But that posture is quite different for classified systems. He also said it
could be to ''prepare for more graduated attacks'' against better protected
networks, including SIPRnet, the classified system Chelsea Manning, formerly
known as Bradley Manning, entered to turn over hundreds of thousands of
documents to WikiLeaks in 2010.

Russian hackers -- those working for the government and those engaged in
''patriotic hacking'' -- are considered particularly stealthy. In several cases,
security researchers have found evidence that hackers were probing the very core
of victims' machines, the part of the computer known as the BIOS, or basic input
output system. Unlike software, which can be patched or updated, once the BIOS
of a machine is infected with malware, it often renders the machine unusable.

Researchers have also found that the hackers were remarkably adept at covering
their tracks, using encryption to cover their tools, but their digital crumbs
left no doubt that they were Russian. Their tools were built and maintained
during Moscow working hours, and snippets of Russian were found in the code.
Though researchers were unable to tie the attacks directly to the state, they
concluded that Russian government backing was likely, given their sophistication
and resources.

Since researchers uncovered the campaign last year, they say the attacks have
become more aggressive and sophisticated.

Early last month, security researchers uncovered a separate Russian
cyberespionage campaign that used a zero-day vulnerability -- a software bug
that had never been reported in Microsoft's Windows operating system -- to
launch cyberattacks on a long list of Russian adversaries. Among them: the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization, European governments, the government of Ukraine,
academics who focused on Ukraine, and visitors of the GlobSec conference, an
annual national security gathering that took place last May in Slovakia and was
largely dominated by the situation in Ukraine.

Then this week, researchers at FireEye, a Silicon Valley firm, released their
work detailing a similar campaign by Russian hackers that also targeted NATO,
and a long list of victims that included the governments of Georgia, Poland,
Hungary, Mexico, Eastern European governments and militaries, and journalists
writing on issues of importance to the Russian government.

''This is no smash-and-grab, financially motivated Russian cybercriminal,'' said
Laura Galante, the threat intelligence manager who oversaw the research at
FireEye. ''This is Russia using their network operations to achieve their key
political goals.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/31/world/europe/new-russian-boldness-revives-a-co
ld-war-tradition-testing-the-other-side-.html

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            October 31, 2014 Friday

Luck Played Role in Discovery of Data Breach at JPMorgan Affecting Millions

BYLINE: MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN and NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1395 words



HIGHLIGHT: The bank was able to identify intruders on its network by looking for
digital fingerprints seen on a trove of stolen data uncovered elsewhere.


 When it comes to defending a large company against an online attack, sometimes
luck and timing can mean as much as spending hundreds of millions of dollars a
year on computer security.

The broad attack this summer on JPMorgan Chase, which compromised information
for 76 million households and seven million small businesses, took the bank's
security team more than two months to detect before it was stopped.

But the intrusion at the nation's largest bank could have gone on for longer if
not for a critical discovery by a Milwaukee security consulting firm that helped
JPMorgan uncover the full extent of its breach. That firm, Hold Security,
uncovered a repository of a billion stolen passwords and usernames that it said
had been pilfered by a loose-knit gang of Russian hackers. The hackers,
according to the consulting firm, had infiltrated more than 420,000 websites.

Hold Security's discovery was first reported by The New York Times on Aug. 5,
but in the days leading up to that report, some American companies, including
JPMorgan, received a preview of its findings, said people briefed on the matter.

In late July, as Hold Security began sharing its findings with its clients, some
of the security specialists at JPMorgan began to suspect that hackers were
inside the bank's systems because of some unusual activity there, said other
people briefed on the matter who spoke on the condition of anonymity. The hope
was that the Hold Security data might provide some clues about a possible breach
at the bank.

It did, but in a roundabout way.

The data pointed to a big problem at the website for the JPMorgan Chase
Corporate Challenge, these people said.

It contained some of the combinations of passwords and email addresses used by
race participants who had registered on the Corporate Challenge website, an
online platform for a series of annual charitable races that JPMorgan sponsors
in major cities and that is run by an outside vendor. The races are open to bank
employees and employees of other corporations.

The criminal database also included the certificate for the website of the
Corporate Challenge site's vendor, Simmco Data Systems, indicating a serious
breach that allowed hackers to pose as the race website operator and intercept
traffic, such as race participants' login credentials, said a person briefed on
the data the security firm collected.

Certificates guarantee the identity of a website to a visitor's web browser.
Using a stolen certificate, hackers can intercept any communications between a
visitor and a website, including passwords.

More disturbing, the stolen Simmco Data certificate was first compromised in
April, suggesting that the hackers could have begun their attack on the bank at
least four months before the bank noticed any unusual activity within its own
network.

It was not until early August, around the time Hold Security was approaching
companies with its findings, that JPMorgan contacted Simmco Data. Employees at
Simmco Data soon found evidence that hackers using suspicious Internet addresses
had probed and infiltrated the server that ran the Corporate Challenge website,
these same people said. Two employees from JPMorgan's data security team in
Columbus, Ohio, traveled to Simmco Data's office to make copies of the files
that had been compromised, said one of the people briefed on the matter.

On Aug. 7, Simmco Data and JPMorgan began to disable the Corporate Challenge
website to contain the breach. JPMorgan also briefed the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, as well as bank regulators.

Looking for the suspicious Internet addresses found on the Corporate Challenge
website, the bank examined traffic on its own vast network, the people briefed
on the matter said. It was not until then that the bank learned that JPMorgan's
systems had been breached by the same hackers who broke into the Corporate
Challenge website.

This unusual series of events that led to the detection of the breach at
JPMorgan shows just how difficult it is for companies to stay one step ahead of
cybercriminals.

The bank spends $250 million annually on security defense. But after the attack,
Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan's chief executive, said he was considering doubling that
amount - an indication of the increasing threat from the attacks. In all,
federal authorities say they believe the hackers that breached JPMorgan's
systems tried to probe or infiltrate a dozen other financial institutions.

Hold Security's founder, Alex Holden, said that he was surprised to learn from a
reporter that the information his company had gathered about stolen passwords at
the Corporate Challenge website played a critical role in helping JPMorgan solve
its own even bigger and more significant data breach.

"If this is indeed is the case, we are very glad that we could positively
contribute to the security of JPMorgan Chase infrastructure and customers," Mr.
Holden said.

He confirmed that the certificate for Simmco Data Systems remains vulnerable
even today.

David O. Simms, chief executive of Simmco, which has been managing the Corporate
Challenge website for about a decade, said he did not know exactly when the
attack on the racing website began. "Our own research led us to believe that the
attackers were fairly persistent, but made no conclusions as to their country of
origin," he said.

Ultimately JPMorgan's attackers made their way through 90 of the bank's servers,
though the bank maintains that the damage to customers was limited. It said that
the hackers did not get access to more sensitive personal information, like
Social Security numbers or account balances, and that it had not seen any
evidence of fraud involving the information that was taken, mostly names,
addresses, phone numbers and email addresses.

The bank also rejects characterizations that the hackers were roaming freely
through its systems during the two months they went undetected. "The criminals
were only successful in accessing a select set of information - the overwhelming
majority of doors and windows they tried to open remained securely locked," said
Patricia Wexler, a JPMorgan spokeswoman.

Three months after the attack was discovered and stopped, much remains unknown,
including who, exactly, was behind the breach.

The F.B.I. recently rejected an early theory that the hackers were backed by the
Russian government, though a consensus has emerged that a loose gang of Russian
criminals were responsible. Some Eastern European Internet addresses were used
in the attack, and the fact that attackers used information from a Russian
criminal database points to Russian cybercriminal involvement, security experts
say.

Even though the same hackers were apparently responsible for the breach at the
bank and the race vendor, Ms. Wexler said the hackers were unable to go directly
from the Corporate Challenge website into the bank's network. The Corporate
Challenge website is run on a separate server that is housed at Online Tech, an
Internet hosting firm in Ann Arbor, Mich.

JPMorgan has determined that the hackers did not gain access to its systems
through any of its outside vendors, Ms. Wexler said.

Evidence suggests hackers tested stolen usernames and passwords from the Hold
Security trove on an older system handling bank employee benefits. When those
worked, they tested the credentials on other bank systems, two of the people
briefed on the matter said, until they found a way in.

The bank declined to comment on how the breach was carried out.

Federal and state regulators are pushing banks to bulk up their own security and
that of outside vendors, ranging from law firms to janitorial services. On Oct.
21, the Senate Banking Committee asked federal banking regulators and Treasury
Department officials to outline steps to protect the financial system from
online threats.

"The most notable thing about these recent cyberbreaches is not that they
happened, but that they went on so long without being detected," said Scott
Borg, the director and chief economist with the United States Cyber Consequences
Unit. "Companies are being blindsided, because they are not watching for the
specific kinds of cyberattacks that are really going to hurt them."

Jessica Silver-Greenberg contributed reporting.

Cyberattack at JPMorgan Chase Also Hit Website of Bank's Corporate Race

After JPMorgan Chase Breach, Push to Close Wall St. Security Gaps

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 1, 2014 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Luck Helped in Discovery of Breach at JPMorgan

BYLINE: By MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN and NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1406 words


When it comes to defending a large company against an online attack, sometimes
luck and timing can mean as much as spending hundreds of millions of dollars a
year on computer security.

The broad attack this summer on JPMorgan Chase, which compromised information
for 76 million households and seven million small businesses, took the bank's
security team more than two months to detect before it was stopped.

But the intrusion at the nation's largest bank could have gone on for longer if
not for a critical discovery by a Milwaukee security consulting firm that helped
JPMorgan uncover the full extent of its breach. That firm, Hold Security,
uncovered a repository of a billion stolen passwords and usernames that it said
had been pilfered by a loose-knit gang of Russian hackers. The hackers,
according to the consulting firm, had infiltrated more than 420,000 websites.

Hold Security's discovery was first reported by The New York Times on Aug. 5,
but in the days leading up to that report, some American companies, including
JPMorgan, received a preview of its findings, said people briefed on the matter.

In late July, as Hold Security began sharing its findings with its clients, some
of the security specialists at JPMorgan began to suspect that hackers were
inside the bank's systems because of some unusual activity there, said other
people briefed on the matter who spoke on the condition of anonymity. The hope
was that the Hold Security data might provide some clues about a possible breach
at the bank.

It did, but in a roundabout way.

The data pointed to a big problem at the website for the JPMorgan Chase
Corporate Challenge, these people said.

It contained some of the combinations of passwords and email addresses used by
race participants who had registered on the Corporate Challenge website, an
online platform for a series of annual charitable races that JPMorgan sponsors
in major cities and that is run by an outside vendor. The races are open to bank
employees and employees of other corporations.

The criminal database also included the certificate for the website of the
Corporate Challenge site's vendor, Simmco Data Systems, indicating a serious
breach that allowed hackers to pose as the race website operator and intercept
traffic, such as race participants' login credentials, said a person briefed on
the data the security firm collected.

Certificates guarantee the identity of a website to a visitor's web browser.
Using a stolen certificate, hackers can intercept any communications between a
visitor and a website, including passwords.

More disturbing, the stolen Simmco Data certificate was first compromised in
April, suggesting that the hackers could have begun their attack on the bank at
least four months before the bank noticed any unusual activity within its own
network.

It was not until early August, around the time Hold Security was approaching
companies with its findings, that JPMorgan contacted Simmco Data. Employees at
Simmco Data soon found evidence that hackers using suspicious Internet addresses
had probed and infiltrated the server that ran the Corporate Challenge website,
these same people said. Two employees from JPMorgan's data security team in
Columbus, Ohio, traveled to Simmco Data's office to make copies of the files
that had been compromised, said one of the people briefed on the matter.

On Aug. 7, Simmco Data and JPMorgan began to disable the Corporate Challenge
website to contain the breach. JPMorgan also briefed the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, as well as bank regulators.

Looking for the suspicious Internet addresses found on the Corporate Challenge
website, the bank examined traffic on its own vast network, the people briefed
on the matter said. It was not until then that the bank learned that JPMorgan's
systems had been breached by the same hackers who broke into the Corporate
Challenge website.

This unusual series of events that led to the detection of the breach at
JPMorgan shows just how difficult it is for companies to stay one step ahead of
cybercriminals.

The bank spends $250 million annually on security defense. But after the attack,
Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan's chief executive, said he was considering doubling that
amount -- an indication of the increasing threat from the attacks. In all,
federal authorities say they believe the hackers that breached JPMorgan's
systems tried to probe or infiltrate a dozen other financial institutions.

Hold Security's founder, Alex Holden, said that he was surprised to learn from a
reporter that the information his company had gathered about stolen passwords at
the Corporate Challenge website played a critical role in helping JPMorgan solve
its own even bigger and more significant data breach.

''If this is indeed is the case, we are very glad that we could positively
contribute to the security of JPMorgan Chase infrastructure and customers,'' Mr.
Holden said.

He confirmed that the certificate for Simmco Data Systems remains vulnerable
even today.

David O. Simms, chief executive of Simmco, which has been managing the Corporate
Challenge website for about a decade, said he did not know exactly when the
attack on the racing website began. ''Our own research led us to believe that
the attackers were fairly persistent, but made no conclusions as to their
country of origin,'' he said.

Ultimately JPMorgan's attackers made their way through 90 of the bank's servers,
though the bank maintains that the damage to customers was limited. It said that
the hackers did not get access to more sensitive personal information, like
Social Security numbers or account balances, and that it had not seen any
evidence of fraud involving the information that was taken, mostly names,
addresses, phone numbers and email addresses.

The bank also rejects characterizations that the hackers were roaming freely
through its systems during the two months they went undetected. ''The criminals
were only successful in accessing a select set of information -- the
overwhelming majority of doors and windows they tried to open remained securely
locked,'' said Patricia Wexler, a JPMorgan spokeswoman.

Three months after the attack was discovered and stopped, much remains unknown,
including who, exactly, was behind the breach.

The F.B.I. recently rejected an early theory that the hackers were backed by the
Russian government, though a consensus has emerged that a loose gang of Russian
criminals were responsible. Some Eastern European Internet addresses were used
in the attack, and the fact that attackers used information from a Russian
criminal database points to Russian cybercriminal involvement, security experts
say.

Even though the same hackers were apparently responsible for the breach at the
bank and the race vendor, Ms. Wexler said the hackers were unable to go directly
from the Corporate Challenge website into the bank's network. The Corporate
Challenge website is run on a separate server that is housed at Online Tech, an
Internet hosting firm in Ann Arbor, Mich.

JPMorgan has determined that the hackers did not gain access to its systems
through any of its outside vendors, Ms. Wexler said.

Evidence suggests hackers tested stolen usernames and passwords from the Hold
Security trove on an older system handling bank employee benefits. When those
worked, they tested the credentials on other bank systems, two of the people
briefed on the matter said, until they found a way in.

The bank declined to comment on how the breach was carried out.

Federal and state regulators are pushing banks to bulk up their own security and
that of outside vendors, ranging from law firms to janitorial services. On Oct.
21, the Senate Banking Committee asked federal banking regulators and Treasury
Department officials to outline steps to protect the financial system from
online threats.

''The most notable thing about these recent cyberbreaches is not that they
happened, but that they went on so long without being detected,'' said Scott
Borg, the director and chief economist with the United States Cyber Consequences
Unit. ''Companies are being blindsided, because they are not watching for the
specific kinds of cyberattacks that are really going to hurt them.''

Jessica Silver-Greenberg contributed reporting.

Cyberattack at JPMorgan Chase Also Hit Website of Bank's Corporate Race

After JPMorgan Chase Breach, Push to Close Wall St. Security Gaps

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/31/discovery-of-jpmorgan-cyberattack-aided-b
y-company-that-runs-race-website-for-bank/

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Singapore's running in April of the JPMorgan Chase Corporate
Challenge. The race series' website was hacked around that time. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
EDGAR SU/REUTERS)
 Alex Holden of Hold Security,  which found a trove of data  stolen by Russian
hackers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID BECKER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 2, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sit Down, Relax and Enjoy the Snow

BYLINE: By ANITA GATES

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 8199 words


All dates subject to change.

November

WEDNESDAY

INTERSTELLAR One minute Matthew McConaughey is driving through the cornfields,
worrying about dust storms and famine. The next he's in outer space with fellow
astronauts (Anne Hathaway among them), searching for a new planet where humans
can relocate. The trick is that a new wormhole has been discovered, and they can
travel a lot farther a lot faster. The cast also includes Michael Caine, Jessica
Chastain, Ellen Burstyn, John Lithgow, Bill Irwin, Casey Affleck, Wes Bentley
and Topher Grace. From Christopher Nolan, whose last directorial project was
''The Dark Knight Rises.''

NATIONAL GALLERY Over the last half-century or so, Frederick Wiseman has made
documentaries about schools, sports arenas, social problems, ballet and Central
Park. Now he turns his attention to the National Gallery in London; its
masterworks, among them Rembrandts, Vermeers and Caravaggios; and the people who
know the art best.

FRIDAY

ACTRESS When a woman pushing 40 decides to return to her acting career,
relationships suffer and drama ensues; Brandy Burre, the woman going through all
of this in real life, plays herself. A documentary directed by Robert Greene.

THE BETTER ANGELS Two years after Steven Spielberg's ''Lincoln'' comes this
drama about Abraham Lincoln's hardship-driven boyhood in Indiana in 1817. Jason
Clarke and Diane Kruger play the father and the stepmother, Wes Bentley is an
influential tutor, and Braydon Denney is young, quiet Abe. The film, shot in
black-and-white to emphasize the austerity of the time and place, is the
directorial debut of A. J. Edwards, a Terrence Malick protégé.

BHOPAL: A PRAYER FOR RAIN In December 1984, a pesticide plant exploded in
Bhopal, India, creating a chemical spill that killed as many as 25,000 people
and sickened many thousands of others. Ravi Kumar's documentary, which features
Martin Sheen, Kal Penn and Mischa Barton, looks at the aftermath, the blame and
life in Bhopal 30 years later.

BIG HERO 6 From Marvel Comics, via Disney animation, with characters named
Wasabi, Honey Lemon and Baymax (a robot whose parents could have been the
Pillsbury Doughboy and an Al Capp shmoo). Hiro, a little-boy robotics prodigy,
and his crime-fighting team set out to save the world -- or at least their home
city, San Fransokyo. Don Hall and Chris Williams directed.

ELSA & FRED Shirley MacLaine and Christopher Plummer, team for an
it's-never-too-late romantic comedy (based on a hit 2005 Argentine film). He's a
crabby widower who moves into a new apartment; she's his ridiculously outgoing
new neighbor, who has a longtime Fellini fantasy about the Trevi Fountain. With
Marcia Gay Harden, James Brolin, George Segal and Chris Noth. Directed by
Michael Radford (''Il Postino'').

FUGLY! John Leguizamo stars as a Latino ghetto nerd from the Bronx who finds
himself, becomes a comedy and film star and is forced to reflect on the big
questions after a near-death experience. With Ally Sheedy (as the agent who
discovers him), Rosie Perez, Radha Mitchell and Griffin Dunne. Alfredo De Villa
directed.

GETTING TO THE NUTCRACKER When you're a kid, the annual Christmas production of
''The Nutcracker'' is the hottest role in ballet. Serene Meshel-Dillman's
documentary follows a group of young dancers at a Los Angeles ballet school
preparing for the big show.

HANGAR 10 Some call it the Rendlesham Forest Hoax: In 1980, American servicemen
in England reported seeing mysterious lights. But in Daniel Simpson's sci-fi
thriller, 30 years have passed and some people with metal detectors come upon
U.F.O. fragments and, heaven help them, an alien presence.

THE INVISIBLE FRONT In 1944, when Soviet forces occupied Lithuania for the
second time, young men and women formed a guerrilla movement and fought back.
This documentary, directed by Vincas Sruoginis and Jonas Ohman, focuses on one
of the group's leaders, an architecture student named Juozas Luksa, and the
resistance movement that challenged Moscow for decades.

JESSABELLE Ever feel that some strange force is pulling you back to your
hometown? In this horror film directed by Kevin Greutert, Jessabelle (Sarah
Snook) isn't imagining it. When she returns to her Louisiana childhood home to
recuperate from a car accident, a tormented spirit there decides she ought to
stay -- forever.

THE LOOKALIKE John Corbett and Steven Bauer play crooks who have to keep their
drug-lord boss happy. When the woman the boss is obsessed with dies, they set
out to find someone who can pass for her. A crime thriller directed by Richard
Gray. With Gillian Jacobs, Gina Gershon and Jerry O'Connell.

A MERRY FRIGGIN' CHRISTMAS Robin Williams in what turned out to be his
penultimate on-screen role. Williams and Joel McHale (of ''Community'' and
''Talk Soup'') play father and son in this holiday comedy about a young dad who
travels to Wisconsin to visit the house of his misfit relatives but cleverly
forgets to bring his son's gifts. Road trip! Candice Bergen and Lauren Graham
play the wives. Directed by Tristram Shapeero.

ON ANY SUNDAY, THE NEXT CHAPTER Dana Brown's follow-up to the 1971 documentary
about motorcycle racing directed by his father, Bruce Brown.

OPEN WINDOWS A regular guy secretly watches a famous actress on her webcam in
this cyber-stalker's-eye drama directed by Nacho Vigalondo. Elijah Wood and
Sasha Grey star.

PELICAN DREAMS Pelicans are off the endangered list, were considered sacred in
Egyptian and Christian mythology and sometimes wear cute-and-goofy hairdos. This
documentary, from the people who gave us ''The Wild Parrots of Telegraph Hill,''
includes the story of Gigi, a wayward California brown pelican (named for the
Golden Gate Bridge, where she once created a major traffic jam), and her stint
in wildlife rehab. Written and directed by Judy Irving.

SEASONS OF LOVE Taraji P. Henson and Method Man star in a holiday romance set in
New York. Directed by Princess Monique, who was born in Cleveland.

SEX ED A romantic comedy about a virgin (Haley Joel Osment) who finds himself
teaching middle school kids about the birds and the bees. On his first teaching
job, he realizes his students know nothing -- and aren't going to learn anything
reliable from parents or peers. Chris Williams plays the minister who
disapproves of sex education in general. Lorenza Izzo is the appealing older
sister of one of the students. Written by Bill Kennedy (''House of Cards'') and
directed by Isaac Feder.

THE THEORY OF EVERYTHING Eddie Redmayne as Stephen Hawking. Mr. Redmayne, known
to moviegoers as young Marius the student revolutionary in ''Les Misérables''
and to theatergoers for his Tony Award-winning role in ''Red,'' portrays Dr.
Hawking (probably the only theoretical physicist and cosmologist in the world
who needs no introduction) in his graduate-student days at Cambridge. There he
received a devastating diagnosis of ALS and met Jane Wilde (Felicity Jones), who
became his first wife and the mother of his three children. At 72, Dr. Hawking
has now outlived his doctors' original prognosis by half a century. James Marsh
directed.

THE TOWER The last days of Communist East Germany, from Uwe Tellkamp's
prizewinning novel ''The Tower: Tales From a Vanished Land.'' The 1980s are seen
through the eyes of one privileged family in suburban Dresden, giving dinner
parties with live classical music and cheerful banter in the shadow of a police
state. With Jan Josef Liefers, Claudia Michelsen and Sebastian Urzendowsky.
Directed by Christian Schwochow.

21 YEARS: RICHARD LINKLATER It's actually been 23 years between ''Slacker''
(1991), which made Mr. Linklater an indie-film darling, and ''Boyhood'' (2014),
which broke new ground in shooting schedules. Michael Dunaway and Tara Wood
directed this documentary-retrospective, including chats with Ethan Hawke, Julie
Delpy, Matthew McConaughey, Billy Bob Thornton, Jack Black, Parker Posey and Zac
Efron.

VIRUNGA A documentary about the struggle to protect a national park and
endangered mountain gorillas in the Democratic Republic of Congo. The park's
rangers, risking their lives to fight off poachers and armed militia, include a
Belgian conservationist and a former child soldier. Orlando von Einsiedel
directed.

VIVA LA LIBERTÀ What happens to Italian politicians when they give up hope? In
this comic thriller from Italy, directed by Roberto Andò, one such man (Toni
Servillo) has a nervous breakdown and runs away to Paris to live in hiding.
Happily for his supporters back home, he has a twin brother in a mental
institution who can be called on to save the day. With Valeria Bruni Tedeschi
and Valerio Mastandrea.

WARSAW UPRISING Some documentaries use old newsreel footage; Jan Komasa's is
nothing but, chronicling the largest resistance-movement military action of
World War II. Colorizing, restoration and added voices (thanks to contemporary
lip readers) help tell the story of two months in 1944 when the people of Poland
tried to bring down the Nazis on their own.

THE WAY HE LOOKS From Brazil, a romantic coming-of-age drama about a blind
teenage boy who wants to get away from his overprotective mom -- until he meets
the new kid in school, a really adorable guy. Never mind. Fabio Audio, Ghilherme
Lobo and Tess Amorim star. Daniel Ribeiro wrote and directed.

WEST From Germany, a drama set in the late 1970s, a decade before the Berlin
Wall came down. An East German woman fakes a marriage to a West German in order
to escape but begins to worry that her ex-boyfriend isn't really dead. Jördis
Triebel, Alexander Scheer and Tristan Göbel star. From a mother-and-son team,
Christian Schwochow, who directed, and Heide Schwochow, who wrote the
screenplay.

WHY DON'T YOU PLAY IN HELL? From Japan, two feuding yakuza gangs fighting to the
death while some young, would-be moviemakers film them. During the Venice Film
Festival, The Telegraph of London described the picture as ''a film in thrall to
the gleeful disposability of Far Eastern junk cinema'' and suggested that the
director, Shion Son, had turned ''its lack of substance into a virtue.'' Fumi
Nikaido and Jun Kunimura star.

NOV. 14

ALWAYS WOODSTOCK An aspiring young singer is fed up: Her record-label job is a
dead end, her music-star client is a monster, and she finds her fiancé in bed
with another woman. So she leaves the city and moves back to her family home in
Woodstock, N.Y., which is, of course, like moving back to any other small town.
Not. Allison Miller, Jason Ritter, Katey Sagal, Brittany Snow and Rumer Willis
star. James Wolk (the strange Bob Benson on ''Mad Men'') plays the handsome
local doctor just waiting for her on Tinker Street. Rita Merson wrote and
directed.

BAD TURN WORSE Three Texas teenagers find their old cotton-mill town boring (the
film was originally called ''We Gotta Get Out of This Place''), steal for
thrills and party money but get into trouble with a crazy criminal (Mark
Pellegrino, who was Jacob on ''Lost'') and his money-laundering boss (William
Devane). Jeremy Allen White, Mackenzie Davis and Logan Huffman are the young
thieves. A crime thriller, directed by the brothers Simon Hawkins and Zeke
Hawkins.

BESIDE STILL WATERS The Austin Film Festival gave this rom-com-dram, Chris
Lowell's directing debut, both the jury prize and the audience award. A young
man (Ryan Eggold) comforts himself after his parents' deaths by forcing his old
friends to relive their glory days. With Beck Bennett (of ''Saturday Night
Live''), Brett Dalton and Will Brill.

BEYOND THE LIGHTS Gugu Mbatha-Raw (the British beauty who starred in ''Belle'')
plays a young singer who feels trapped by stardom and tries to escape by jumping
off a balcony. Nate Parker is the police officer who saves her and falls in love
with her. Minnie Driver is her hard-driving mother; Danny Glover is his
disapproving father. Written and directed by Gina Prince-Bythewood, whose past
film dramas include ''Love & Basketball'' and ''The Secret Life of Bees.''

BRAHMIN BULLS A bummed-out Los Angeles man (Sendhil Ramamurthy) going through a
divorce is surprised to find his estranged father (Roshan Seth) at his door, but
a family reunion may not be in the cards. Dad is really in town to look up an
old love (Mary Steenburgen). A family drama directed by the Minnesota-born,
Maine-raised Mahesh Pailoor.

BUTTER ON THE LATCH Maybe young women with unstable psyches shouldn't go to
Balkan folk festivals. Or sing songs about women with dragons in their hair.
Sarah (Sarah Small) stars as a visitor who gets carried away with her fantasies
in this Josephine Decker film set in the forests of Mendocino, Calif.

DRUG LORD: THE LEGEND OF SHORTY When they caught Joaquín Guzmán Loera, the
Mexican cartel leader, in his Mazatlán condo earlier this year, sleeping with an
AK-47 beside his bed, he had been on the run from law enforcement for 13 years.
Angus MacQueen's documentary considers how Guzmán, known as El Chapo (Shorty),
became Public Enemy No. 1 in Chicago but a folk hero to his own people.

DUMB AND DUMBER TO No, you haven't already seen this; ''Dumb and Dumberer''
(2003) was a prequel. Everybody's back for this sequel: Jim Carrey as Lloyd (who
has not had his chipped tooth fixed), Jeff Daniels as Harry and the Farrelly
brothers, who created the intellectually challenged characters. Lloyd and Harry
are off on another road trip, 20 years later, this time to find Harry's
illegitimate daughter, because he needs a kidney transplant. Kathleen Turner
joins the group as Fraida Felcher, the ''babe who worked for the tractor
company,'' often discussed but never seen in the first film.

FOXCATCHER In noncomic mode, Steve Carell plays a vastly wealthy man -- a du
Pont, no less -- who amuses himself by taking on an Olympic-hopeful wrestler
(Channing Tatum) as his personal project. The wrestler loves living on the
estate, but time and his more self-confident brother (Mark Ruffalo) prove that
in a friendship with a rich person, the poor person always loses. Vanessa
Redgrave, as the du Pont matriarch, disapproves of all of it. A drama from
Bennett Miller, who directed ''Capote.''

THE HOMESMAN Tommy Lee Jones directs Hilary Swank, Grace Gummer, Miranda Otto,
John Lithgow and himself in this western drama based on a novel by Glendon
Swarthout (who wrote, strangely, both ''The Shootist'' and ''Where the Boys
Are''). Ms. Swank's character is transporting three women driven insane by men,
death and pioneer life in general from the Nebraska Territories to Iowa. Mr.
Jones is her rough-hewed covered-wagon driver. Ms. Gummer's mother, Meryl
Streep, appears briefly as a prim Methodist.

KILL DIL From India, an action romance about two killers, their mentor-in-crime
and a woman who complicates everything. Ranveer Singh, Ali Zafar, Parineeti
Chopra and Govinda star. Shaad Ali directed.

KIRK CAMERON'S SAVING CHRISTMAS Not saving Christmas like foiling the Grinch.
Not saving Christmas like Edmund Gwenn's 1947 Santa, who worried that the
holiday had become too commercial, in ''Miracle on 34th Street.'' Saving
Christmas as in having the hero (Mr. Cameron) grab a Scrooge type ''by his
seasonal sweater and show him Christ where Christ has always been,'' in the
words of the film's publicity materials. And who ever thought we'd see Mr.
Cameron, who didn't even direct or write, with his name in the title? Darren
Doane is the actual director.

LEVITATED MASS Michael Heizer's ''Levitated Mass,'' a two-story granite boulder,
came from the desert and is now at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. Doug
Pray's documentary follows the big rock's journey and public reaction (a mix of
awe and outrage) to this example of ''land art.''

LOVE HUNTER You seriously never know who your taxi driver might be. Take Milan
Mumin, the frontman of the '90s Serbian rock band Love Hunters, who moved to New
York in 2003 to start a solo career and ended up spending a lot of time in the
front seats of Yellow Cabs. Mr. Mumin plays himself in this musical drama,
filmed in New York and directed by the brothers Branislav Bala and Nemanja Bala.

MISS MEADOWS She wears flowery dresses and little white gloves and carries a
ladylike purse. Katie Holmes plays the title role in this satire about a sweet
schoolteacher who moves from town to town and job to job and, in her off hours,
shoots people dead. But only bad people. James Badge Dale plays the sheriff who
falls in love with her. Karen Leigh Hopkins wrote and directed.

OCCUPY THE FARM Protesters have chained themselves to gates, lain down in the
street, refused to move from lunch-counter seats, even set themselves on fire.
In 2012 the urban farmers in Todd Darling's documentary just showed up with
rototillers and planted some vegetables. It worked: The University of
California, Berkeley, changed its mind about building a shopping mall and condo
complex on 10 acres of East Bay farmland.

RED ARMY Gabe Polsky's documentary is about the Soviet Union's remarkable hockey
teams during the Cold War years. When the film was screened at Cannes, Manohla
Dargis of The Times called it ''one of the festival's most pleasurable
surprises.''

ROSEWATER This is why Jon Stewart took the summer off last year from ''The Daily
Show.'' He makes his directing and screenwriting debut in this story (based on
Maziar Bahari's book ''Then They Came for Me'') of a journalist who was held by
Iranian authorities for more than 100 days, based partly on a ''Daily Show''
comedy sketch involving Mr. Bahari that they took at face value. Gael García
Bernal plays Mr. Bahari. Shohreh Aghdashloo co-stars.

THOU WAST MILD AND LOVELY Josephine Decker's second film opening on the same day
as her ''Butter on the Latch'' is set on a verdant Kentucky farm. A father and
daughter are joined for the summer by a hired hand, and a romance begins. But
oops, the man has a wife, and the story turns very ugly. Joe Swanberg, Sophie
Traub, Robert Longstreet and Kristin Slaysman star.

WOLVES Feuding werewolves with a cute teenage boy caught in the middle. Lucas
Till (Havok in the X-Men movies) stars as a young man on the run because he's
suspected of having murdered his parents. John Pyper-Ferguson plays the crazy
guy he meets along the way, who leads him to the werewolves' town. Jason Momoa
(Drogo on ''Game of Thrones'') gets hairy. Written and directed by David Hayter,
who was a writer on ''Watchmen'' and some ''X-Men'' movies.

NOV. 19

BAD HAIR From Venezuela, the story of a 9-year-old boy whose family goes into
homophobic panic because he wants to straighten his curly hair for his school
photo. Samuel Lange Zambrano stars. Mariana Rondón wrote and directed.

HAPPY VALLEY The child sex abuse scandal at Penn State in 2011 reached far and
wide. Joe Paterno, the revered football coach, was fired and was dead two months
later. Jerry Sandusky was sentenced to 30-60 years in prison. And then there
were the 40,000 residents of State College, Pa., where it all happened. This
documentary, directed by Amir Bar-Lev, questions whether the town's longtime
nickname, Happy Valley, still applies.

PULP: A FILM ABOUT LIFE, DEATH AND SUPERMARKETS As the Beatles are to Liverpool,
the Britpop group Pulp is to Sheffield, England. In this documentary, directed
by Florian Habicht, the band, led by Jarvis Cocker, does a hometown farewell
concert, and the townspeople pay tribute.

NOV. 20

STORY OF MY DEATH Finally, moviegoers have a chance to see Dracula and Casanova
having a serious chat -- in Catalan. Albert Serra wrote and directed this drama,
which was part of the New Directors/New Films series.

NOV. 21

ALL RELATIVE Life as a young New York couple is beautiful for Harry and Grace
(Jonathan Sadowski and Sara Paxton) until Grace's parents come to visit. Her
sexy mother (Connie Nielsen) is the problem. A romantic comedy directed by J. C.
Khoury.

THE CIRCLE From Switzerland, a drama about gay life in the 1950s, told through
the story of a mild-mannered teacher and a celebrity cross-dresser in love. Der
Kreis (the Circle) is the pioneering gay rights organization they belong to.
Directed by Stefan Haupt, the film won two documentary awards at the Berlin
International Film Festival.

DEATH METAL ANGOLA A documentary about the healing power of heavy metal music in
a multicultural southwest African nation. Directed by Jeremy Xido.

EXTRATERRESTRIAL Attractive young people in a cabin in the woods. A fireball
falls from the sky and explodes. It's a spaceship, and the aliens appear to have
survived the crash. Clearly the Vicious Brothers (as Colin Minihan, the
director, and his co-writer, Stuart Ortiz, call themselves) have seen a few
midcentury sci-fi thrillers. Brittany Allen stars as the requisite pretty
college girl in distress, with Gil Bellows and Freddie Stroma.

FLAMENCO FLAMENCO Carlos Saura's tribute to the Spanish dance and folk music
completely dispenses with dialogue and presents 21 musical numbers with only
light and art (as in paintings by the likes of Goya and Klimt).

FOOD CHAINS The C.I.W. (Coalition of Immokalee Workers) message: If large
grocery chains paid 2 cents more per bushel of tomatoes, it would mean fair
wages and decent living conditions for farm workers. Eva Longoria and Eric
Schlosser (the author of ''Fast Food Nation'') appear in this documentary,
narrated by Forest Whitaker and directed by Sanjay Rawal.

A GIRL WALKS HOME ALONE AT NIGHT An Iranian vampire romance-western. The vampire
is a young woman in a hijab who has some surprises in store for the pimps and
druggies who dominate a small town called Bad City. But Ana Lily Amirpour's
debut feature is also a feminist fable about vulnerability and revenge. Arash
Marandi plays the one nice guy in town, and Sheila Vand (who was in ''Argo'') is
the monster. Filmed in Farsi in California, this was the opening-night
attraction at the 2014 New Directors/New Films series.

THE HUNGER GAMES: MOCKINGJAY -- PART 1 Katniss is back in District 13 and just
needs to save the country (is a major revolution ahead?). The cast from the
first two films returns, led by Jennifer Lawrence and including Liam Hemsworth,
Josh Hutcherson, Donald Sutherland, Julianne Moore, Woody Harrelson, Elizabeth
Banks, Jeffrey Wright and Stanley Tucci. Philip Seymour Hoffman is back, too, as
Plutarch Heavensbee, having filmed most of his role before he died in February.
Francis Lawrence returns as director. Part 2 is scheduled for release in fall
2015.

THE KING AND THE MOCKINGBIRD Paul Grimault's 1947 French hand-drawn animated
feature, ''Le Roi et l'Oiseau,'' based on Hans Christian Andersen's ''The
Shepherdess and the Chimney Sweep,'' finally has a real American release, after
decades of legal and creative battles. (It was shown at the New York Film
Festival last month.) Grimault's co-screenwriter was the poet Jacques Prévert.

LATE PHASES A thriller set in a retirement community where sinister creatures
are coming out of the surrounding forest and doing very bad things. Nobody likes
Crescent Bay's abrasive new resident (Nick Damici), a grizzled war veteran, but
maybe he's just the guy to deal with this. The cast also includes Ethan Embry,
Tina Louise, Lance Guest and Tom Noonan. Adrián García Bogliano directed.

MONK WITH A CAMERA: THE LIFE AND JOURNEY OF NICHOLAS VREELAND What on earth
would the Vogue grande dame Diane Vreeland make of this? Mr. Vreeland, her
grandson, trained to be a photographer but gave up his glamorous New York life
in 1972 to move to India and become a Buddhist monk. Richard Gered the Dalai
Lama make appearances in this documentary by Guido Santi and Tina Mascara.

THE MULE Angus Sampson stars in this darkly comic Australian thriller about a
first-time drug mule who is detained by the police and determined to withhold
the evidence. Hugo Weaving (with an impressive 1980s mustache) co-stars. Tony
Mahony and Mr. Sampson directed.

REACH ME The latest hot self-help book is about six basic fears. And in this
drama, its once-reclusive author (Tom Berenger) is suddenly pursued by humanity
en masse. The large cast includes Sylvester Stallone (as an editor in a hipster
hat), Danny Aiello, Cary Elwes, Kyra Sedgwick, Kelsey Grammer, Thomas Jane and
Lauren Cohan. John Herzfeld wrote and directed.

THE SLEEPWALKER Happy, happy Kaia and Andrew (Gitte Witt and Christopher Abbott)
are blissfully restoring her family's country house when Kaia's disturbed sister
(Stephanie Ellis) turns up out of nowhere, followed by her boyfriend (Brady
Corbet). At which point Mona Fastvold's horror-tinged psychosexual drama, which
was the subject of lots of buzz at Sundance, turns its attention to repressed
memories, childhood trauma and the dark side of somnambulism.

STONES IN THE SUN Patricia Benoit's political drama about Haitians in New York
is made up of interlocking stories, including that of an antigovernment radio
show host reunited with his estranged father. The cast includes Edwidge
Danticat, Michele Marcelin and Thierry Saintine.

VALLEY OF SAINTS Love on an abandoned Dal Lake houseboat amid violence and
unrest in Kashmir, on the India-Pakistan border. Written and directed by Musa
Syeed, the film won two 2012 awards at Sundance. Starring Mohammed Afzal, Gulzar
Ahmed Bhat and Neelofar Hamid.

V/H/S: VIRAL This, the second sequel to a 2012 horror anthology film, has
multiple directors, even more writers and various segments, including ''Gorgeous
Vortex,'' ''Dante the Great'' and ''Parallel Monsters.''

NOV. 26

HORRIBLE BOSSES 2 Three homicidal disgruntled employees (Jason Bateman, Jason
Sudeikis and Charlie Day) decide to start their own business, but when their big
investor (Christoph Waltz) betrays them, their solution is to kidnap his son
(Chris Pine). Jennifer Aniston, Kevin Spacey and Jamie Foxx do reprise their
roles from the first movie. A crime comedy, directed by Sean Anders.

PENGUINS OF MADAGASCAR They're aquatic, they're flightless, they're animated,
and now they're spies. New voices include those of Benedict Cumberbatch as the
head of an international espionage organization and John Malkovich as the
octopus villain. Directed by Eric Darnell, who also directed the first three
''Madagascar'' pictures, and Simon J. Smith.

NOV. 28

ANTARCTICA: A YEAR ON ICE Oh, big deal, Richard Linklater -- filming ''Boyhood''
over a 12-year period. Anthony Powell says he spent 15 years shooting this
documentary about what it's like living at a research station on the planet's
southernmost continent (98 percent of it covered with mile-thick ice).

THE BABADOOK In this Australian horror drama, a young widow (Essie Davis) is
told by experts that ''all children see monsters.'' But the fears of her
7-year-old (Noah Wiseman) seem extreme, and they all seem to lead back to a
certain scary storybook. Is the house really haunted? Or is this a
mother-and-son folie à deux? Jennifer Kent wrote and directed.

BEFORE I DISAPPEAR Right in the middle of his suicide attempt, a depressed New
Yorker gets a call from his estranged sister, who desperately needs him to look
after her 11-year-old daughter. Things gets worse from there. Shawn Christensen
wrote, directed and stars in this drama, alongside Emmy Rossum, Ron Perlman,
Paul Wesley and Fatima Ptacek.

THE IMITATION GAME Maybe you've heard L.G.B.T. leaders say, ''A gay man won
World War II.'' This is the guy. Benedict Cumberbatch plays Alan Turing, the
British mathematician and overall genius who led the team that broke the Nazis'
Enigma Code. After the war, a grateful nation prosecuted him for homosexual
acts, and he died, apparently by suicide, in 1954. With Keira Knightley, Charles
Dance and Matthew Goode. Morten Tyldum directed.

THE IMMORTALISTS The American scientist is a health-conscious runner; the
British one swills beer. Both are devoted to finding a way for us all to live
forever, and this documentary, from David Alvarado and Jason Sussberg, examines
their theories.

REMOTE AREA MEDICAL Just how desperate many Americans are for medical attention
is the subject of this documentary by Jeff Reichert and Farihah Zaman. The proof
is a three-day free mobile clinic set up at a speedway in Tennessee, at which
2,000 patients, some of whom have not been to a doctor or a dentist for decades,
are treated.

TOUCH THE WALL Two Olympic swimmers, Missy Franklin and Kara Lynn Joyce, support
each other -- until they part -- in Christo Brock and Grant Barbeito's
documentary.

December

DEC. 3

ZERO MOTIVATION From Israel, a comedy about women in the Israeli Army (its human
resources department, actually) bored to death on a remote desert military base.
They play video games, make coffee and settle their differences with staple-gun
violence. Talya Lavie wrote, directed and took home a narrative-feature award
from the Tribeca Film Festival.

DEC. 5

THE BAREFOOT ARTIST Born in China and living in Philadelphia, Lily Yeh is an
artist known for her public installations. This documentary, which shows her
working with victims of war and other trauma to help them express their emotions
through murals and sculpture, is directed by Daniel Traub (Ms. Yeh's son) and
Glenn Holsten.

ESCOBAR: PARADISE LOST Benicio Del Toro plays Pablo Escobar, the Colombian drug
lord (1949-93), in this family drama directed by Andrea Di Stefano. Josh
Hutcherson (Peeta in ''The Hunger Games'') is a young surfer who meets the love
of his life (Claudia Traisac), then learns that her uncle is Escobar and that
the family business (cocaine) always has room for one more.

THE FOXY MERKINS A comic buddy film about a lesbian who hopes to make a living
as a hooker and the self-confident straight woman she meets who is better at
picking up women than she is. Madeleine Olnek wrote and directed.

INSIDE THE MIND OF LEONARDO IN 3-D You thought Leonardo da Vinci kept just
journals and notebooks with his astounding 16th-century artistic and scientific
ideas? No. He also made shopping lists and wrote down dirty jokes. Peter Capaldi
(known to television viewers as the newest Dr. Who), playing Leonardo, uses all
manner of sources to tell the man's story in his own words in this directed by
Julian Jones. Many of Leonardo's works are shown in 3-D.

LIFE PARTNERS Can a straight girl and a lesbian be best friends? Sasha and Paige
have been. But they're 29 now and it had to happen: Paige gets serious with a
man, and Sasha panics at the prospect of being abandoned. Starring Leighton
Meester (as the panicked one), Gillian Jacobs and Adam Brody, with Gabourey
Sidibe, Mark Feuerstein and a couple of ''Saturday Night Live'' regulars (Kate
McKinnon and Abby Elliott) in the supporting cast. Susanna Fogel directed.

MURDER OF A CAT Greg Kinnear, Blythe Danner, Nikki Reed and J. K. Simmons star
in this suburban comedy about a creepy guy (Fran Kranz) whose pet is killed.
Setting out to find the murderer, the first thing he learns is that the cat was
leading a double life. Gillian Greene directed.

NIGHT WILL FALL Nobody was expecting a new Hitchcock film this year. Andre
Singer is listed as the director of this documentary, but most of the footage
was shot by Alfred Hitchcock and Sidney Bernstein in 1945. The idea was to show
the full extent of the atrocities that Allied forces had found when they
liberated the Nazi camps, but someone decided the film might not be conducive to
Anglo-German reconciliation. Four decades later, a film can marked ''F3080'' was
found in a London museum. This is the first time the full film inside (newly
restored) has been released.

PIONEER A conspiracy thriller set during the Norwegian oil boom of the 1980s.
Aksel Hennie plays a diver sent on a dangerous mission. Wes Bentley, Stephen
Lang and Max Manus also star. Erik Skjoldbjaerg directed.

POKER NIGHT A thriller that proves it pays to listen to your elders. When a
young Indiana police detective (Beau Mirchoff) is kidnapped and tortured by a
serial killer, he makes a plan to survive by using the wisdom he's picked up
from the more experienced cops around the card table. With Ron Perlman,
Giancarlo Esposito and Titus Welliver. Greg Francis wrote and directed.

POVERTY INC. ''Fighting poverty is big business'' is the advertising tag line
for Michael Matheson Miller's documentary, which looks at who is really
benefiting by Americans' longtime efforts to help the needy, locally and around
the world.

THE PYRAMID American archaeologists learn there's a previously unknown pyramid
hidden beneath the Egyptian desert, the biggest structure of its kind ever. In
this action thriller directed by Grégory Levasseur, they go to explore it but
get lost in the catacombs and soon realize someone is hunting them. Ashley
Hinshaw, James Buckley and Denis O'Hare star.

SHE'S BEAUTIFUL WHEN SHE'S ANGRY The 1960s-into-'70s wave of the feminist
movement, nicknamed women's lib, wasn't led by Gloria Steinem alone. This
documentary by Mary Dore reflects on some remarkable women, including the
members of Witch (Women's International Terrorist Conspiracy From Hell), and
looks at the ''war on women'' raging today.

SKATING TO NEW YORK Everybody comes of age in his or her own way. In this
adventure, five teenage boys in a small Canadian town decide to ice-skate across
Lake Ontario right into the Empire State. And then what -- a glamorous weekend
in Oswego? The young cast includes Connor Jessup, Wesley Morgan and Gage Munroe.
Charles Minsky directed.

STILL ALICE Julianne Moore stars in this drama as a linguistics professor who
begins to forget words. Her family's worst fears are realized (it's early-onset
Alzheimer's disease), and what's ahead isn't easy for anybody. Alec Baldwin
plays the husband; Kristen Stewart, Kate Bosworth and Hunter Parrish are the
kids. Directed by Richard Glatzer and Wash Westmoreland.

TOP FIVE An all-Chris Rock extravaganza. He wrote, directed and stars in this
comedy about a stand-up comic whose fiancée, a reality-TV personality, persuades
him to televise their forthcoming wedding.

WILD Heroin and cheap sex weren't really working for Cheryl Strayed as comfort
after her mother's death and the breakup of her marriage, so she set out on an
1,100-mile solo hike near the Pacific Coast to find herself. The novelist and
screenwriter Nick Hornby has adapted her best-selling memoir about the
experience. Reese Witherspoon stars as Ms. Strayed. Jean-Marc Vallée, who
directed ''Dallas Buyers Club,'' is in the director's seat.

DEC. 12

AFTER THE FALL You lose your job, you don't want to give up everything you hold
dear, so you turn to crime. Wes Bentley stars as a family man who makes that
choice. Saar Klein directed this thriller, formerly called ''Things People Do,''
which also stars Vinessa Shaw (as Mr. Bentley's wife) and Jason Isaacs.

THE CAPTIVE From Atom Egoyan, a kidnapping drama with Ryan Reynolds (beard,
baseball cap, pickup truck) as a guilty dad who has just left his little
daughter alone for a minute while he ran into the diner to get ice cream. With
Scott Speedman and Rosario Dawson.

THE COLOR OF TIME A poet's life as told through his poems. James Franco stars as
C. K. Williams, the New Jersey-born Pulitzer Prize and National Book Award
winner, now in his late 70s. Mila Kunis plays his wife, and Jessica Chastain, in
midcentury flashbacks, is his mother. The film's 11 directors include Brooke
Goldfinch and Bruce Thierry Cheung.

DO YOU KNOW WHAT MY NAME IS? A ''senior care network'' in Cleveland has
impressive results with learning therapy -- reading aloud and doing simple math
problems -- developed in Japan to help dementia patients. Naomi Kazama and
Shigeru Ota directed this documentary.

EXODUS: GODS AND KINGS Back to ancient Egypt with the men who directed ''Blade
Runner,'' wrote ''Schindler's List'' and starred in ''American Psycho.'' At 40,
Christian Bale plays Moses in the biblical story of one adopted kid's battle to
free his people from slavery. With Joel Edgerton (as Rameses), Sigourney Weaver,
Ben Kingsley, Aaron Paul and John Turturro. Ridley Scott directed, Steven
Zaillian did the screenplay, and it's safe to say that the special effects will
be more spectacular than when Charlton Heston parted the Red Sea in the '50s.

INHERENT VICE Paul Thomas Anderson follows ''The Master'' and ''There Will Be
Blood'' with a visit to Southern California in the 1970s, via Thomas Pynchon's
novel. Joaquin Phoenix stars as Doc Sportello, a marijuana-dependent detective
on the case of an ex-girlfriend who has disappeared. The almost-all-star cast
includes Reese Witherspoon, Josh Brolin, Benicio Del Toro, Owen Wilson, Jena
Malone, Katherine Waterston (daughter of Sam) and Sasha Pieterse. This was the
centerpiece of the New York Film Festival.

ISN'T IT DELICIOUS The revered stage actress Kathleen Chalfant stars as a New
England matriarch with lung cancer who sets out to fix all her messed-up
relationships before she dies. It's a better use of her time than chemotherapy,
she decides. With Keir Dullea, Alice Ripley, Mia Dillon, Malachy McCourt and
Robert LuPone. Michael Patrick Kelly directed.

JAMES WAN PRESENTS DEMONIC A group of college students play ghost hunter in an
abandoned house that's rumored to be haunted, and five end up dying horrible
deaths. Maria Bello and Frank Grillo star as the psychologist and the detective
who investigate. James Wan, who wrote the story, is a Malaysian filmmaker who
directed ''Saw'' and ''The Conjuring.'' Will Canon directed.

A LITTLE GAME A 10-year-old girl whose grandmother has died learns all kinds of
life lessons from a grumpy old chess player in Washington Square Park. F. Murray
Abraham and Makenna Ballard star, supported by Olympia Dukakis, Janeane
Garofalo, Rachel Dratch and Ralph Macchio. Written and directed by Evan
Oppenheimer.

MAGICIAN: THE ASTONISHING LIFE AND WORK OF ORSON WELLES He was 25 when he made
''Citizen Kane,'' and his fall from grace is the stuff of Hollywood mythology.
Chuck Workman's documentary includes interviews with Steven Spielberg, Martin
Scorsese and Richard Linklater; Welles's own observations; and clips from his
films, including unfinished works like the avant-garde ''The Other Side of the
Wind.'' Welles died in 1985.

THE SALT OF THE EARTH Wim Wenders honors the work of the Brazilian-born Paris
photographer Sebastião Salgado. This documentary, directed by Mr. Wenders and
Juliano Ribeiro Salgado (the subject's son), won the Un Certain Regard special
jury prize at Cannes.

SIX DANCE LESSONS IN SIX WEEKS If you're going to be a retired lady living alone
in Florida and you're going to hire a private dance instructor, he might as well
look like Cheyenne Jackson. Gena Rowlands and Mr. Jackson star in this love-hate
comedy based on Richard Alfieri's play (Polly Bergen and Mark Hamill played the
lead roles on Broadway). Arthur Allan Seidelman directed.

THEO'S HOUSE Two Finnish architects argue about whether they were right to build
concrete towers in the 1980s, and one decides to build his dream home.

DEC. 17

THE HOBBIT: THE BATTLE OF THE FIVE ARMIES Our last visit to Middle Earth, they
say. We come to the end of Peter Jackson's second Tolkien trilogy, with Bilbo,
Gandalf and an army of dwarves setting out to regain the lost dwarf kingdom of
Erebor -- in 3-D and Imax, should you so choose. Familiar faces include Ian
McKellen, Cate Blanchett, Richard Armitage, Martin Freeman, Orlando Bloom and
Christopher Lee. With Benedict Cumberbatch as the dragon.

IF YOU DON'T, I WILL Cinquante (50) ways to leave your lover. Pomme (Emmanuelle
Devos) and Pierre (Mathieu Amalric) have been together forever, and the magic is
long gone. One day on a hike, Pomme just announces that she's not going home
with Pierre afterward; she's going to stay in the woods and think and decide
what to do next with her life. A French comic drama written and directed by
Sophie Fillières.

DEC. 19

ANNIE America's most musical comic-strip orphan is back, and this time she's
Quvenzhané Wallis, the adorable little girl who won an Oscar nomination for
''Beasts of the Southern Wild.'' Jamie Foxx plays Benjamin Stacks (you know,
like Daddy Warbucks), a New York billionaire who's running for mayor and takes
in Annie as a foster child to bolster his campaign. With Cameron Diaz (as the
sadistic orphanage director Miss Hannigan), Bobby Cannavale and Rose Byrne.
Everybody sings and dances about the things they love and hate and want, and
most of all tomorrow. Will Gluck (whose last feature was the more adult-oriented
''Friends With Benefits'') directed.

THE GAMBLER A painfully thin Mark Wahlberg stars as an English lit professor
with a colossal gambling problem. A remake (but with a brand-new script) of the
1974 film, which starred James Caan. Rupert Wyatt (whose last was ''Rise of the
Planet of the Apes'') directed the new one, with a supporting cast that includes
Jessica Lange as the professor's mother, John Goodman as a loan shark and Brie
Larson.

LIFE OF AN ACTRESS: THE MUSICAL Three of them, struggling in New York, all
connected with the same greasy-spoon diner. And even the diner has financial
problems. The cast includes Orfeh, Taylor Louderman and Allison Case. Paul Chau
directed, presenting musical numbers like ''He Wants to Be an Accountant,''
''Talent & Determination'' and ''I Wish I Was SAG.''

MR. TURNER Mike Leigh, the auteur-king of improv-realism, returns to Victorian
England for the first time since ''Topsy-Turvy'' (1999), with a tale of J. M. W.
Turner, the eccentric British landscape painter and snuff addict. In the last
two decades of his life, Turner (Timothy Spall, who won the best actor award
this year at Cannes for this) tries to numb his grief over his father's death
with travel, brothel visits, country weekends with aristocrats and the
occasional tumble in the hay with his long-suffering housekeeper (Dorothy
Atkinson), who worships him. With Leigh favorites including Marion Bailey (as
the widow who becomes Turner's mistress in his twilight years), Ruth Sheen and
Lesley Manville.

NIGHT AT THE MUSEUM: SECRET OF THE TOMB In this third ''Night at the Museum''
film, directed by Shawn Levy, Larry (Ben Stiller) has to go to London to save
the magic that makes museum exhibits come to life at night. Some old friends,
including Teddy Roosevelt (Robin Williams in what may be his last big-screen
appearance), come along. Ben Kingsley turns up at the British Museum as an
Egyptian pharaoh and Dan Stevens (that ''Downton Abbey'' heartthrob again) is
Sir Lancelot. Rebel Wilson, from ''Bridesmaids,'' is a British security guard
with some prejudices against Americans. With Owen Wilson, Ricky Gervais and
Mickey Rooney, who died in April.

SAGRADA In 1882, the Roman Catholics of Barcelona, Spain, decided to build a
grand basilica. In 1883, they hired an architect, Antoni Gaudí. Gaudí died 88
years ago, and the church -- part Gothic, part Art Nouveau, part wedding cake --
is the city's most popular unfinished tourist attraction. Stefan Haupt's
documentary looks at the church's history and talks to the people still working
on it.

A SMALL SECTION OF THE WORLD When the husbands and the sons leave their Costa
Rican village to look for work in hard times, the women left behind brainstorm
and start a coffee-growing collective. Lesley Chilcott's documentary tells their
story.

SONG OF THE SEA The selkies, in Irish and Scottish folklore, are humans on land
but turn into seals in the sea. This international animated fantasy is a tale of
the last of the seal-children, a girl on a mission. With the voices of Fionnula
Flanagan and Brendan Gleeson, and directed by Tomm Moore (''The Secret of
Kells'').

WINTER SLEEP Winner of this year's Palme d'Or at Cannes, the highest honor on
the international film festival circuit. In this Turkish drama, a retired actor
turned hotelier (Haluk Bilginer) ponders his marriage (Melisa Sozen plays his
much younger wife, politically active but emotionally distant), his sister's
divorce, life, death and wealth disparity. When Manohla Dargis of The Times saw
the film at Cannes, she mentioned ''Chekhovian talkathons'' and an ''eerily
beautiful'' setting (snow-covered mountains in Central Anatolia). Nuri Bilge
Ceylan directed.

DEC. 24

BELOVED SISTERS One is unhappily married, the other is single and shy, and in
late-18th-century Germany they both love Friedrich Schiller. Schiller -- the
poet, philosopher, playwright (''The Robbers'') and general hothead -- marries
one and lives complicatedly ever after with both in a picturesque period ménage
à trois but gets enough work done to publish ''William Tell.'' Florian Stetter,
Hannah Herzsprung and Henriette Confurius star in this German-Austrian romantic
drama, written and directed by Dominik Graf.

DEC. 25

AMERICAN SNIPER Clint Eastwood directs and Bradley Cooper stars in the story of
Chris Kyle, a Texas-born sniper for the Navy SEALs whose extraordinary skills
during four tours of duty in Iraq earned him the nickname the Devil of Ramadi.
Based largely on Mr. Kyle's autobiography of the same title, the film also
features Sienna Miller as his wife and Vincent Selhorst-Jones as a disturbed
young war veteran Mr. Kyle tried to help.

BIG EYES Tim Burton's latest is about the midcentury artist who drew those waifs
with gigantic doe eyes. Christoph Waltz, the two-time Oscar winner, stars as
Walter Keane, who took the credit for the kitschy paintings, which were
reproduced seemingly everywhere. Amy Adams is his wife, Margaret, who actually
did the work and challenged him to a paint-off in court to prove it. The Keanes
divorced. With Danny Huston, Jason Schwartzman and Terence Stamp.

THE INTERVIEW If there is no such thing as bad publicity, Seth Rogen and James
Franco must be ecstatic that in June the North Korean government declared the
coming release of this comedy a ''blatant act of terrorism'' and promised to
''mercilessly destroy'' anyone who attacked the country's supreme leader. In the
film, Mr. Rogen and Mr. Franco play two goofballs who do a cheesy
tabloid-celebrity TV show but land an interview with the North Korean leader Kim
Jong-un (Randall Park), because the guy's a big fan. But then the C.I.A. decides
the guys should assassinate Mr. Kim while they're there, since they're so stupid
no one will ever suspect them. Mr. Rogen and Evan Goldberg (who got his start as
a writer on ''Da Ali G Show'') directed.

INTO THE WOODS Stephen Sondheim's beautifully bleak 1987 Broadway musical, about
fairy tale characters from various stories coming together and suffering and not
always being satisfied with their happy endings, is finally a movie, with a
screenplay by its book writer, James Lapine. Meryl Streep is the bitter,
salad-loving witch destined for a makeover. Anna Kendrick is Cinderella. Chris
Pine is her prince. And Johnny Depp is the wolf who lives near Red Riding Hood's
grandmother. Rob Marshall directed. Disney is releasing, and the report is that
some of the doom and gloom (and sex) may have been cleaned up a bit.

SELMA It was March 1965, 50 years ago this spring, when civil rights protesters
started out from Selma, Ala., to walk to the state's capital, Montgomery, in
support of voting rights for African-Americans. Blood was spilled. It took three
attempts. But the march finally succeeded and led to President Lyndon B.
Johnson's signing of the 1965 Voting Rights Act. David Oyelowo (from ''The
Butler'') stars as the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., with Tom Wilkinson as
L.B.J., Carmen Ejogo as Coretta Scott King, Tim Roth as Gov. George Wallace,
Andre Holland as Andrew Young and Colman Domingo as Ralph Abernathy. Ava
DuVernay directed.

TWO DAYS ONE NIGHT Your co-workers may like you, but how much? Marion
Cotillard's character finds out in this French drama from the brothers
Jean-Pierre Dardenne and Luc Dardenne, two-time Palme d'Or winners (for ''The
Child'' and ''Rosetta''). Poor Sandra (Ms. Cotillard) returns from sick leave to
be told that she's going to be fired, and the only way to avoid that is to talk
her colleagues (over the weekend) into giving up their bonuses.

UNBROKEN Angelina Jolie directs this World War II story of Louis Zamperini (Jack
O'Connell), a track star at the 1936 Berlin Olympics who survived a near-fatal
plane crash, 47 days on a raft in enemy waters and two years in a Japanese
prisoner-of-war camp. With Garrett Hedlund, Finn Wittrock and Domhnall Gleeson.
Mr. Zamperini died in July in Los Angeles at the age of 97.

TALES OF THE GRIM SLEEPER Nick Broomfield (''Kurt & Courtney,'' ''Biggie and
Tupac'') chose a prolific serial killer as his newest documentary subject.
Lonnie Franklin Jr., arrested in 2010, may have been able to get away with a
25-year murder spree because the Los Angeles police didn't pay major attention
to the deaths of his victims, many of them prostitutes and drug addicts.

DEC. 31

LEVIATHAN This Russian drama won the best screenplay award at Cannes. Written by
Andrey Zvyagintsev (who also directed) and Oleg Negin, it follows the battle
between a happy family-man auto repair shop owner and the corrupt mayor who
wants to take away his business and his land. Starring Aleksey Serebryakov,
Roman Madyanov and Vladimir Vdovichenkov.

A MOST VIOLENT YEAR The year is 1981, the setting is New York, and this crime
drama is about an immigrant family trying to get ahead in the middle of urban
turmoil. Starring Oscar Isaac of ''Inside Llewyn Davis'' and Jessica Chastain of
everything. Directed by J. C. Chandor, whose résumé so far includes ''All Is
Lost'' and ''Margin Call.''

Compiled with the assistance of Suzanne O'Connor.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/02/movies/sit-down-relax-and-enjoy-the-snow.html

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From top, the title characters wig out in ''Penguins of
Madagascar''
Matthew McConaughey in Christopher Nolan's ''Interstellar.'' Above from left,
Gael García Bernal in Jon Stewart's ''Rosewater''
Hilary Swank in Tommy Lee Jones's ''The Homesman.'' Below, Jennifer Lawrence in
''The Hunger Games: Mockingjay -- Part 1.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY 20TH CENTURY FOX
MELINDA SUE GORDON/PARAMOUNT PICTURES
NASSER KALAJI/OPEN ROAD FILMS
DAWN JONES/ROADSIDE ATTRACTIONS
MURRAY CLOSE/LIONSGATE) (AR38)
Gugu Mbatha-Raw (of ''Belle'') in ''Beyond the Lights,'' directed by Gina
Prince-Bythewood (''The Secret Life of Bees''). (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE
TENNER/RELATIVITY MEDIA) (AR40)
Left, Ian McKellen returns as Gandalf the Grey in ''The Hobbit: The Battle of
the Five Armies.'' Left below, Fabrizio Rongione and Marion Cotillard in
Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne's drama ''Two Days, One Night.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
MARK POKORNY/WARNER BROS. PICTURES AND METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER PICTURES
CHRISTINE PLENUS/SUNDANCE SELECTS) (AR41)
From top, Jamie Foxx and Quvenzhané Wallis as the title character in ''Annie''
from left, Finn Wittrock, Domhnall Gleeson and Jack O'Connell in Angelina
Jolie's ''Unbroken''
and Mark Wahlberg and Brie Larson in ''The Gambler.'' Below, James Corden and
Meryl Streep in ''Into the Woods,'' adapted from Stephen Sondheim and James
Lapine's musical. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARRY WETCHER/COLUMBIA PICTURES
UNIVERSAL PICTURES
CLAIRE FOLGER/PARAMOUNT PICTURES
 PETER MOUNTAIN/WALT DISNEY PICTURES) (AR42)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                           November 6, 2014 Thursday

Another Security Fix Is Made to JPMorgan Chase's Race Website

BYLINE: MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 458 words



HIGHLIGHT: The website for the JPMorgan Chase Corporate Challenge, which had
been largely inoperable since hackers broke into the bank&#8217;s network this
summer, is slowly returning after the outside firm that runs the website made
another security fix.


The website for the JPMorgan Chase Corporate Challenge, which was hit by the
same hackers that broke into the bank's own network this summer, is slowly
crawling back to health.

Earlier this week, the small Michigan firm that manages the Corporate Challenge
website repaired what it believed was the last potential security flaw with the
website, said an executive with the vendor, Simmco Data Systems.

David Simms, Simmco's president, said that the firm replaced a potentially
compromised certificate for the website after confirming a report inThe New York
Times last week that the Corporate Challenge website might still have an
outstanding security flaw.

Certificates guarantee the identity of a website to a visitor's web browser.
Using a stolen certificate, hackers can intercept any communications between a
visitor and a website, including passwords.

The website for the Corporate Challenge, a series of races that JPMorgan
sponsors in cities around the globe to raise money for charity, has been largely
inoperable since Aug. 7. The discovery that overseas hackers had infiltrated the
website helped JPMorgan discover that the same gang of cyber criminals also had
breached the bank's vast network.

It is not clear why the potential problem with the website certificate was fixed
only in the past few days. A JPMorgan spokeswoman declined to comment.

In early August, JPMorgan learned the Corporate Challenge website may have been
breached because of information gathered by Hold Security, a Milwaukee security
consulting firm. Hold found that a gang of hackers believed to be from Russia
had obtained some passwords and email addresses used by race participants, who
had registered on the Corporate Challenge website.

JPMorgan ultimately found that the same hacker who broke into the Corporate
Challenge website had gotten into the bank's network. The bank's security team
determined that by finding the same  suspicious Internet addresses on the
Corporate Challenge's server on some of the bank's own servers as well.

The breach of JPMorgan's network, which took more than two months for the bank
to discover, compromised some non-financial information about 83 million
households and small-business customers. The bank has said the hackers did not
gain access to more sensitive personal information, like Social Security
numbers or account balances, and that it had not seen any evidence of fraud
involving the information that was taken, mostly names, addresses, phone numbers
and email addresses.

Mr. Simms, whose small company has been managing the Corporate Challenge website
for about a decade, said he and the bank hoped to soon have the race website
fully functional. He said, "it will be the most secure race website."

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 7, 2014 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Donor Generation Stimulates U.S. Giving

BYLINE: By DAVID GELLES

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Giving; SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1043 words


When the Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg gave the federal Centers for Disease
Control foundation $25 million to help combat the Ebola crisis last month, it
served as a public service announcement of sorts.

Five years after the recession reshaped the global economy, charitable giving is
back in a big way in the United States. What is more, a new generation of donors
is meeting significant challenges with transformative gifts.

Mr. Zuckerberg has emerged as one of the most generous entrepreneurs of his
generation, doling out eight- and nine-figure gifts to education, health and
community development causes. And to a surprising degree, much of the country
has followed in Mr. Zuckerberg's footsteps, even after the financial crisis.

Overall charitable giving in 2013 was up 3 percent from the previous year, the
largest year-over-year increase since the recession, according to Giving USA and
the Indiana University Lilly Family School of Philanthropy, which track
contributions. Donations from individuals, companies, foundations and bequests
topped $335 billion in 2013, approaching the peak from before the financial
crisis. It was the fourth consecutive year of gains.

And while few are as wealthy as Facebook or its founder, the American people and
the business community have largely shrugged off the financial crisis and
resumed their charitable ways.

''It's really recovered,'' said Melissa Berman, chief executive of Rockefeller
Philanthropy Advisors. ''America has a long, long tradition of generosity.''

It wasn't always clear this would be the case. In the throes of the recession,
giving plunged 15 percent, to $298 billion in 2009 from $350 billion in 2007,
according to the Giving USA data, which is figured in constant,
inflation-adjusted dollars.

Even then there was a silver lining. The country was poorer, meaning there was
less to give, yet as a proportion of wealth generated, Americans appeared to
maintain their generosity.

''Although total giving has predictably declined, we are still giving at high
levels and at nearly the same proportion of total dollars as before,'' wrote Rob
Reich and Christopher Wimer of Stanford University, in a 2012 paper examining
the recession's impact on philanthropy.

But where those dollars were going ''changed pretty significantly,'' said Eileen
R. Heisman, chief executive of the National Philanthropic Trust. Donations to
organizations that fight homelessness and food banks spiked in 2008 and 2009,
while giving to arts and education causes slumped.

''When there's a recession and high unemployment, people respond to those
immediate needs,'' said Ms. Berman.

But as the direst days of the recession have passed, giving to different causes
has returned to precrisis levels. ''As the recovery has persisted, people are
moving back to the areas where they have traditionally given,'' said Dr. Patrick
M. Rooney, associate dean of Indiana University Lilly Family School of
Philanthropy.

Giving to the arts and education has outpaced charity to hunger and homelessness
causes in recent years. And when disasters strike, be it an earthquake in Haiti
or a tsunami in Japan, Americans can generally be relied on to open their
wallets.

Perhaps most surprising about giving since the recession is who has proved most
generous. It turns out that poorer individuals give a greater percentage of
their income, even during tough times. Though low-income Americans cut back on
charitable giving the most during the recession, they tend to give a higher
proportion of their wealth away than those in the middle and upper classes.

''It's remarkable how generous low-income Americans are,'' said Ms. Berman.
''Their giving dropped the most in the recession because they don't have as much
expendable income, but they tend to give a higher proportion of their money away
to charity.

''Folks that see so clearly how their lives can be upended by one thing -- a
child that gets sick or a family member having a hard time -- have a sense of,
'There but for the grace of God go I.' ''

The richest individuals have also resumed their charitable ways. ''More
high-net-worth households are giving, and they're giving more,'' said Mr.
Rooney.

In recent months, a number of large gifts from billionaires have made headlines.
In addition to Mr. Zuckerberg's donation to fight Ebola, last month Charles T.
Munger, the vice chairman of Berkshire Hathaway, gave $65 million to the Kavli
Institute for Theoretical Physics at the University of California, Santa
Barbara. And last year, the billionaire real estate developer Stephen Ross gave
$200 million to the University of Michigan.

Today's youth, enabled by online giving and best exemplified by Mr. Zuckerberg,
are also participating. ''The millennials are really committed to giving,'' said
Ms. Heisman. ''This isn't just a baby boomer phenomenon.''

And companies, too, are gradually resuming their philanthropic initiatives,
though progress is slow. Just 64 percent of companies increased total
contributions from 2010 to 2013, according to a report by the CECP, in
association with the Conference Board. And corporate giving, while up 10.8
percent since 2011, dropped 3.2 percent from 2012 to 2013, Giving USA says.

Yet despite this broad-based recovery in giving, the recession did set back
philanthropy in America. The $335 billion in gifts last year remains below the
precrisis high of $350 billion. ''It's been a pretty slow build-back,'' said Ms.
Heisman.

The biggest drag is individual giving, which is down $21 billion from before the
recession began, according to Mr. Rooney. Efforts like Giving Tuesday, a
charitable take on the likes of Black Friday and Cyber Monday, and new online
sites like Donors Choose and Kickstarter, have failed to meaningfully bolster
giving levels.

As a result, Americans still give away roughly 2 percent of the country's gross
domestic product per year. That is higher than other countries and has largely
recovered since the recession. But the proportion is not growing substantially.

''The 'glass half empty' view is that we're back to where we were about a decade
ago,'' said Mr. Rooney. ''The 'glass half full' is that giving dropped during
the Great Recession, but it didn't fall off the charts. There's a reason they
call it the Great Recession.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/07/giving/new-donor-generation-stimulates-us-givi
ng.html

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: Charity's Rebound: By source, 2012-13. (Corporate giving
dipped, but is up 10.8 percent since 2011.) (Source: Giving USA)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Motherlode)

                            November 7, 2014 Friday

When Library Time Means Screen Time

BYLINE: LUISA COLON

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 1160 words



HIGHLIGHT: I was hoping my 4-year-old would see the library as I once did, as a
hushed building full of endless promise. Instead, it&#8217;s become an arcade.


Lately, my 4-year-old and I have been having a conflict about the library. One
of us wants to go. This is not a debate that is playing out according to plan.

If you guessed that I am the one pushing to visit our local branch of the
Brooklyn Public Library, you're mistaken. I wish I were. I've always loved going
to the library. I've been a bona fide bookworm for most of my life. As a little
girl, I loved the hush of the library, the promise it held. Although the Dewey
Decimal System was daunting, I could usually find what I was looking for: books
by Judy Blume and John Bellairs when I was young; biographies of old-timey stars
like Natalie Wood and Joan Crawford when I hit my teens. And now, as a mother,
it's about the pleasure of loading up on books with my children to take home;
rediscovering old classics like "The Snowy Day" and newer ones like
"Traction-Man Is Here."

Or rather, it should be about that. Recently, I'm very surprised to hear myself
muttering to my partner, sotto voce: "I don't want go to the library." I tell my
children that we will have to go another day, when really, I'm putting it off
until  winter arrives and our choices are much more limited. Right now we have
the park, the playground and the ball field, areas that are decidedly
computer-free. Because, thanks to an influx of computers at our local library,
library time has come to mean screen time.

At a recent participatory budget meeting, residents of our Brooklyn neighborhood
voted to spend $75,000 on new technology for the local branch. Now we have six
computers in the children's section (known colloquially as the "toddler
computers," they are actually AWE Early Literacy Stations meant for children
ages 2 to 8). Parallel - and within a stone's throw - to those are a row of four
computers for older children that become mobbed after school lets out at 3.

With regard to the Early Literacy Stations, the AWE computers claim to provide
"over 140 million hours of learning time." They don't use an Internet
connection, so there is no chance that children will stumble upon a trailer for
"Saw 8." The games include titles such as "Getting Ready for Kindergarten" and
"Know Your U.S.A." And the time spent at these stations is self-limiting, since
children sign up for 30-minute sessions.

Sounds harmless enough, right? But I can't stand those computers. Like many
parents, I obsess over how much screen time is O.K. for our family. The
revelation that Silicon Valley parents (including the late Steve Jobs) make a
practice of limiting their children's screen time confirmed the suspicions of
lots of mothers who equate video-game-playing and general Internet use with
dangers like cyber-bullying and, less specifically, brain-rotting. And the LINK
3 GamerGate scandal has confirmed something concrete that I already knew: I have
no idea what the world of gaming looks like beyond "Toca Town."

Not that there is any chance that our library's Early Literacy Stations provide
a doorway to controversial games like "Grand Theft Auto." The computers right
behind them, also in the children's section, are a different story. During the
early part of the weekdays, they sit there unused, dark. After 3 p.m. on
weekdays, it's a different story: Older children cluster around them. These
computers employ filters, yet when I glance over, I see tankers, explosions,
soldiers and busty anime characters and other images I would prefer my children
not to engage with. Yet all the children who play at the Early Literacy
Stations, including mine, are drawn to the "big kid computers."

It seems many other mothers in the community are having an experience similar to
mine. "My dreams of lazy library mornings with my kids, sitting around
discovering hidden treasures together never really happened and I do kind of
blame those irritating computers," one mother wrote  after I sent out an email
asking parents what they thought of the computers.

"I wanted it to be this quiet, sacred space, like what I had experienced as a
kid," said another, adding that her child's library visits became "about the
flashing lights and sounds on the computer." (In lieu of the library, she now
takes her son to the children's section at Barnes & Noble.)

Another mother put it very succinctly: "If I wanted my kid playing video games
I'd take him to an arcade. I don't care if they're 'educational.' It's still
time in front of a screen."

And are the "toddler computers" really educational? I have yet to see a child
poring over the game "Britannica Encyclopedia Student." The children at the
Early Literacy Stations want to play, and they apply a gaming mentality to
programs like "Giggles Kids! Nursery Rhymes," endlessly decimating and then
rebuilding London Bridge instead of learning to read the actual rhyme.

Theoretically, all we parents have to do is say no. It reminds me of a time
several years ago when a debate erupted in Park Slope over the vendors who
pushed carts of Italian ices into the playgrounds, resulting in conflict between
children who wanted a treat and parents who had to say no. A lot of people filed
this under the category of "first world problems" and grumbled that mothers and
fathers need to learn how to set limits and stick to their guns. But it's hard
to enter a space that has traditionally been peaceful and quiet and find
yourself engaged in a battle over video games. It's also one thing to say no to
playing a game. Preventing your child from being drawn to one being played
nearby seems almost impossible. "I have said no on most of our visits but at
times they have been so loud he will keep returning to the area again and again
to see what is on the screen," one mother wrote.

A coordinator at the Brooklyn Public Library reminded me that many children
don't have access to computers in their homes. Parents without smartphones or
other high-tech devices at home don't have the luxury of feeling exasperated at
the sight of yet another computer. The library computers are meant to extend
access to the Internet to all, just as the library itself extends access to
books to all. It's ironic, then, that so many parents ultimately see the
computers as blocking the way to the library they once knew.

I can ask the librarians at our branch to see if there is a way to rearrange the
computer stations so that the littler children aren't playing "Miss Humblebee's
Academy" with older ones deep in "World of Warcraft" right behind them. I can
(and will) avoid the library after 3 p.m. I can't turn the library back into the
place I once knew. Instead, we'll take our books, and go home.

Luisa Colón is a mom and a writer based in Brooklyn. Her work has appeared in
New York, Glamour and Latina, among other publications.  Her website is
PixieForever.com.

Like what you're reading? Get the best of Motherlode articles, links, comments
and conversation, along with previews of posts to come, delivered each week to
your inbox. Sign up here.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            November 9, 2014 Sunday

On the Hunt for Hackers, but Not the Spotlight

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH and MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1222 words



HIGHLIGHT: Lawrence Baldwin is one of the more well-known and valuable allies of
financial institutions in their fight against online crime, but the nature of
his work means he keeps a very low profile.


Lawrence Baldwin is a dark hero of the Internet whom you have probably never
heard of - and for good reason.

A decade ago, Mr. Baldwin made a name for himself and his Atlanta-based security
firm, myNetWatchman, by collecting and analyzing digital scourges like malware,
and alerting companies to them. He was a fixture on the security conference
circuit and was often quoted in the press about security threats.

And then he seemed to disappear. Beyond a bare-bones website and a LinkedIn
profile where his only listed interest is "chasing down cybercriminals and
smacking them upside the head," Mr. Baldwin largely vanished from the web.

"If you look for me on Google, you'd be hard pressed to find my involvement in
anything for the last seven or eight years," he said.

Yet Mr. Baldwin is well known to a number of large United States banks and
financial institutions that have turned to him for help in combating
increasingly sophisticated hacking attacks.

He declined to discuss his work for the banks, citing concerns about his
personal safety.

For the past seven years, several security consultants and former law
enforcement personnel say, Mr. Baldwin has immersed himself in the so-called
dark web, using what most describe as unorthodox methods to gather intelligence
about online financial crime. Mr. Baldwin, 49, says that he is able to closely
monitor many of the criminals who he says have made "hundreds of millions of
dollars" hacking into American banks and corporations.

It is that unusual proximity - and the reliable information that it produces -
that has made Mr. Baldwin one of the go-to consultants for financial
institutions. Those familiar with his work say he is one of the consultants used
by banks like JPMorgan Chase, which is still dealing with the fallout from an
intrusion that compromised some information for 76 million households and seven
million small businesses.

To his supporters, Mr. Baldwin, who has a degree in computer science from the
University of Hartford, is something of a secret agent. "He has eyes directly on
the perpetrator," said one security expert who did not want to be identified
because of Mr. Baldwin's preference for a low profile.

Another described his work as "very cloak and dagger." All agree that the
intelligence he provides is very effective. "I would take his intelligence over
anyone else's any day of the week," another said.

Companies often complain that when they are breached, they rarely learn anything
about their attackers from law enforcement. Security companies are also little
help. Many victims of breaches say these companies bury their analysts in heaps
of data without offering any context or attribution. By the time chief
information security officers discover that their data has left the building,
executives complain, the criminals have already moved on.

All of this has created a market for a handful of consultants like Mr. Baldwin
who go undercover and track the criminals' activity in real time."Baldwin stands
out because he provides actionable intelligence," said Avivah Litan, a security
analyst with Gartner, the research firm. "It's exact, it's original and he
barely charges for it, whereas other firms repackage intelligence from many
sources."

She added, "There's a finite number of original sources for intelligence on bad
activities."

Yet while banks and Wall Street firms rely on Mr. Baldwin's services, they do
not like to talk about it.

A spokeswoman for JPMorgan said she could not comment on whether the bank
consulted with Mr. Baldwin. JPMorgan, which spends $250 million annually on
digital security, has about 1,000 dedicated security personnel. But the bank
also works with a handful of outside-threat intelligence providers in addition
to consulting firms like Booz Allen Hamilton and Stroz Friedberg\x83\x96 to
investigate attacks, said other people briefed on the matter.

For his part, Mr. Baldwin maintains that he did not work directly with JPMorgan
to solve its recent breach.

He was slightly more open in March about his work, as he discussed the details
of a recent attack against a bank during a presentation to the Georgia Banking
Association. Mr. Baldwin asked the attendees not to discuss the talk with
reporters.

The reason for the banks' caution is that the information Mr. Baldwin provides
becomes useless as soon as it is made public - and because many of his clients
are not quite sure where Mr. Baldwin's information comes from.

Two people familiar with his methods said that Mr. Baldwin's company maintains
listening posts on Internet service provider networks and infects tools used by
criminals, like underground botnets - networks of infected computers - to see
what criminals are collecting and where they are collecting it from. He has also
developed a web of contacts across industries and knows who is stealing
information.

"He has gone underground and become privy to what they're developing," said Ms.
Litan, of Gartner. "There's no other way. It's the way."

A few years ago, law enforcement officials spoke to Mr. Baldwin to ensure he
understood what he could do without breaking the law, according to two people
briefed on the conversation. One concern is that while Mr. Baldwin has a record
of developing intelligence on hacker activity, the information cannot be used as
evidence in a criminal proceeding because of his methods, and the confidential
relationships he uses to gather it.

Still, law enforcement officials who have worked with him describe Mr. Baldwin
as a valuable partner.

Thomas Grasso, a supervisory special agent with the F.B.I., said the bureau "had
a very good working relationship with Mr. Baldwin and his company over the
years," and had worked with him and others in the private sector to stay ahead
of online threats.

Mr. Baldwin did not start out as a security guru. Early in his career he worked
at BellSouth, helping to introduce its dial-up network. Immediately, hackers
tried to break in. What began as a curiosity - figuring out who they were and
how they attacked their victims - became his life's work.

In an industry dominated by those who charge high fees for other people's
intelligence, one person said, Mr. Baldwin stands out as a "boy scout" who
simply wants to catch criminals and routinely shares information free. With
prosecutions and extraditions of hackers rare, Mr. Baldwin is motivated, say
those familiar with him, to do everything possible to disrupt their businesses.

He works closely with the National Cyber-Forensics and Training Alliance, a
nonprofit based in Pittsburgh that brings together law enforcement, private
industry members, security consultants and academic scholars to share
information to prevent and mitigate the threats. The group works closely with
many American banks and corporations and has received contributions in recent
years from Bank of America, Microsoft and Symantec.

Some have likened Mr. Baldwin's sleuthing to that of Brian Krebs, the security
blogger who earned attention investigating Russian spammers and has been pranked
by spammers as a result. But security researchers say Mr. Baldwin's
investigations take him much deeper into the netherworld of the web.

That explains Mr. Baldwin's low profile over the past few years. "I'm not a
press hound," he said. "There are serious personal safety issues to consider."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 10, 2014 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

On the Hunt for Hackers, Not Attention

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH and MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1237 words


Lawrence Baldwin is a dark hero of the Internet whom you have probably never
heard of -- and for good reason.

A decade ago, Mr. Baldwin made a name for himself and his Atlanta-based security
firm, myNetWatchman, by collecting and analyzing digital scourges like malware,
and alerting companies to them. He was a fixture on the security conference
circuit and was often quoted in the press about security threats.

And then he seemed to disappear. Beyond a bare-bones website and a LinkedIn
profile where his only listed interest is ''chasing down cybercriminals and
smacking them upside the head,'' Mr. Baldwin largely vanished from the web.

''If you look for me on Google, you'd be hard pressed to find my involvement in
anything for the last seven or eight years,'' he said.

Yet Mr. Baldwin is well known to a number of large United States banks and
financial institutions that have turned to him for help in combating
increasingly sophisticated hacking attacks.

He declined to discuss his work for the banks, citing concerns about his
personal safety.

For the past seven years, several security consultants and former law
enforcement personnel say, Mr. Baldwin has immersed himself in the so-called
dark web, using what most describe as unorthodox methods to gather intelligence
about online financial crime. Mr. Baldwin, 49, says that he is able to closely
monitor many of the criminals who he says have made ''hundreds of millions of
dollars'' hacking into American banks and corporations.

It is that unusual proximity -- and the reliable information that it produces --
that has made Mr. Baldwin one of the go-to consultants for financial
institutions. Those familiar with his work say he is one of the consultants used
by banks like JPMorgan Chase, which is still dealing with the fallout from an
intrusion that compromised some information for 76 million households and seven
million small businesses.

To his supporters, Mr. Baldwin, who has a degree in computer science from the
University of Hartford, is something of a secret agent. ''He has eyes directly
on the perpetrator,'' said one security expert who did not want to be identified
because of Mr. Baldwin's preference for a low profile.

Another described his work as ''very cloak and dagger.'' All agree that the
intelligence he provides is very effective. ''I would take his intelligence over
anyone else's any day of the week,'' another said.

Companies often complain that when they are breached, they rarely learn anything
about their attackers from law enforcement. Security companies are also little
help. Many victims of breaches say these companies bury their analysts in heaps
of data without offering any context or attribution. By the time chief
information security officers discover that their data has left the building,
executives complain, the criminals have already moved on.

All of this has created a market for a handful of consultants like Mr. Baldwin
who go undercover and track the criminals' activity in real time.''Baldwin
stands out because he provides actionable intelligence,'' said Avivah Litan, a
security analyst with Gartner, the research firm. ''It's exact, it's original
and he barely charges for it, whereas other firms repackage intelligence from
many sources.''

She added, ''There's a finite number of original sources for intelligence on bad
activities.''

Yet while banks and Wall Street firms rely on Mr. Baldwin's services, they do
not like to talk about it.

A spokeswoman for JPMorgan said she could not comment on whether the bank
consulted with Mr. Baldwin. JPMorgan, which spends $250 million annually on
digital security, has about 1,000 dedicated security personnel. But the bank
also works with a handful of outside-threat intelligence providers in addition
to consulting firms like Booz Allen Hamilton and Stroz Friedbergï[#x192]- to
investigate attacks, said other people briefed on the matter.

For his part, Mr. Baldwin maintains that he did not work directly with JPMorgan
to solve its recent breach.

He was slightly more open in March about his work, as he discussed the details
of a recent attack against a bank during a presentation to the Georgia Banking
Association. Mr. Baldwin asked the attendees not to discuss the talk with
reporters.

The reason for the banks' caution is that the information Mr. Baldwin provides
becomes useless as soon as it is made public -- and because many of his clients
are not quite sure where Mr. Baldwin's information comes from.

Two people familiar with his methods said that Mr. Baldwin's company maintains
listening posts on Internet service provider networks and infects tools used by
criminals, like underground botnets -- networks of infected computers -- to see
what criminals are collecting and where they are collecting it from. He has also
developed a web of contacts across industries and knows who is stealing
information.

''He has gone underground and become privy to what they're developing,'' said
Ms. Litan, of Gartner. ''There's no other way. It's the way.''

A few years ago, law enforcement officials spoke to Mr. Baldwin to ensure he
understood what he could do without breaking the law, according to two people
briefed on the conversation. One concern is that while Mr. Baldwin has a record
of developing intelligence on hacker activity, the information cannot be used as
evidence in a criminal proceeding because of his methods, and the confidential
relationships he uses to gather it.

Still, law enforcement officials who have worked with him describe Mr. Baldwin
as a valuable partner.

Thomas Grasso, a supervisory special agent with the F.B.I., said the bureau
''had a very good working relationship with Mr. Baldwin and his company over the
years,'' and had worked with him and others in the private sector to stay ahead
of online threats.

Mr. Baldwin did not start out as a security guru. Early in his career he worked
at BellSouth, helping to introduce its dial-up network. Immediately, hackers
tried to break in. What began as a curiosity -- figuring out who they were and
how they attacked their victims -- became his life's work.

In an industry dominated by those who charge high fees for other people's
intelligence, one person said, Mr. Baldwin stands out as a ''boy scout'' who
simply wants to catch criminals and routinely shares information free. With
prosecutions and extraditions of hackers rare, Mr. Baldwin is motivated, say
those familiar with him, to do everything possible to disrupt their businesses.

He works closely with the National Cyber-Forensics and Training Alliance, a
nonprofit based in Pittsburgh that brings together law enforcement, private
industry members, security consultants and academic scholars to share
information to prevent and mitigate the threats. The group works closely with
many American banks and corporations and has received contributions in recent
years from Bank of America, Microsoft and Symantec.

Some have likened Mr. Baldwin's sleuthing to that of Brian Krebs, the security
blogger who earned attention investigating Russian spammers and has been pranked
by spammers as a result. But security researchers say Mr. Baldwin's
investigations take him much deeper into the netherworld of the web.

That explains Mr. Baldwin's low profile over the past few years. ''I'm not a
press hound,'' he said. ''There are serious personal safety issues to
consider.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/11/09/on-the-hunt-for-hackers-but-not-the-spotl
ight/

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                           November 11, 2014 Tuesday

Today in Small Business: An S.E.O. Challenge

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 530 words



HIGHLIGHT: Military-friendly companies. Could a drop in lending be good news for
small businesses? Is Igor Pasternak on the verge of revolutionizing shipping?


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.

Marketing


     ·    A made-up holiday, Singles' Day, generates huge online sales for small
          and mid-sized retailers in China.
     ·    Alibaba is closing in on being the sixth largest company in the United
          States.
     ·    A web developer offers an S.E.O. challenge and reviews how one company
          handles search engine optimization.
     ·    Whole Foods may be hard to crack, but if a product gets in, it is
          likely to sell.
     ·    For Super Bowl 50, the NFL is courting LGBT businesses.


Employees


     ·    Here are the most military-friendly companies in America.
     ·    A small business that "harnesses the talent of military spouses" will
          deliver finance and accounting services to AOL.


Online


     ·    Visitors who use site search are eight times more likely to complete a
          purchase.
     ·    The Federal Communications Commission responds to the president's net
          neutrality plan, and here's what it means.
     ·    A burger spot in Australia is hit with a surge of negative reviews
          right after its proprietor makes fun of a vegan customer online.
     ·    Verizon's use of "supercookies" could be a boon to its advertisers and
          a security risk to its customers.
     ·    Mapquest wants to help stranded drivers with on-demand towing service.
     ·    The Post Office is a victim of a cyber attack and hackers from China
          are suspected.


Finance


     ·    Here's why a drop in lending might actually be good news for small
          businesses.


Washington


     ·    Two leading small-business advocates oppose a new Small Business
          Administration policy they believe will be devastating to small
          businesses.


Technology


     ·    With 3-D printer sales set to explode, factories, schools and families
          are all potential buyers.
     ·    Is Igor Pasternak on the verge of revolutionizing shipping


Social Media


     ·    Facebook now has 500 million users on its Messenger service.
     ·    After a successful opening episode of his web show, Jerry Seinfeld
          writes a great thank-you note to Mark Zuckerberg.


Around the Country


     ·    A new report shows that New York is home to nearly 250,000
          self-employed workers, a force that grew 31 percent between 2000 and
          2012.
     ·    Pork production is set to surpass beef for the first time since the
          1950s.


Around the World


     ·    Denmark is aiming for 100-percent renewable energy.
     ·    Citing its media laws, CNN pulls out of Russia.


Health Care


     ·    Millions fewer Americans will get private health insurance through the
          Affordable Care Act's new marketplaces in 2015 than previously
          estimated.
     ·    Another study shows the health care law is holding down premiums and
          getting more insurance companies to participate.
     ·    Republicans say they can't repeal the law and plan to chip away at it
          piece by piece, starting with redefining full-time work in a way that
          could affect health coverage for 1 million people.


Retail


     ·    Pizza Hut is making big changes to its pizzas.
     ·    McDonald's same-store sales in the United States fell 1 percent in
          October.
     ·    A retailer uses a signature scent to create a warm and inviting store
          environment.


Entrepreneurship


     ·    Garth Brooks introduces an artist-friendly music service.
     ·    Here is the difference between entrepreneurs then and now.


Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps
clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 12, 2014 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Taunting Nets? Family Makes That Its Domain

BYLINE: By ANDREW KEH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1023 words


SANTA FE, N.M. -- Mark Cuban, the owner of the Dallas Mavericks, and his
counterpart with the Knicks, James L. Dolan, were early suspects, as were any
other N.B.A. executives who had ever squabbled with Mikhail D. Prokhorov, the
Russian billionaire owner of the Nets. Or perhaps the culprit was an old rival
of Prokhorov's from back home in Russia, where oligarchs have been known to make
enemies.

Anything seemed possible over the past two years, as Nets fans looking for a
schedule or a score typed ''nets.com'' into their web browsers and were
redirected to a curious variety of distinctly non-Nets sites: an amateurishly
designed page with a photo of Cuban sticking out his tongue; the personal home
page of Jason Kidd, who had a messy split with the Nets this summer after a
single season as their coach; an All-Star team ballot for the Knicks.

The Nets do not own the Internet domain name Nets.com, and whoever does has been
playing a yearslong joke on the team's fans. The website Deadspin and others
highlighted the antics, but exactly who was posting the material has been a
mystery.

''If you come out here, I'm going to make you help us with the New York Times
crossword puzzle first,'' Jane Hill, 69, of Santa Fe, told an inquiring reporter
over the weekend. Hill, a former fine-arts photographer and a Bard College
graduate, is the person behind one of the biggest mysteries in the history of
the Nets.

In her first interview about the site, which began over a plate of scrambled
eggs and sliced tomatoes in a Santa Fe diner, Hill came clean. She wants the
Nets, or someone, to buy Nets.com. And she wants millions for it.

''We've had fun with the mystery of it all,'' she said with a smile.

The Nets' front office, however, is less amused. The team has strongly rejected
the $5 million price tag Hill put on the domain name.

''Our website is BrooklynNets.com, and our fans know this is our site,'' said
Barry Baum, a team spokesman. ''Brooklyn Nets is our brand, and we have no
interest in Nets.com, despite the shameful efforts of the registrant to attempt
to sell us this domain name for seven figures.''

What the Nets called shameful Hill calls smart business. As the owner of Cyber
Mesa Telecom, a small telephone and Internet provider that employs about two
dozen people in a low-slung office a half-mile from the city's rodeo ground, she
is a natural entrepreneur with an eclectic résumé: She operated a travel agency
and a hotel in Greece before turning to photography, specializing in capturing
the nuances of metallic sculptures.

''Bronze is very difficult to photograph,'' Hill said.

Hill said that in the late 1980s, not long after moving to Santa Fe, a
picturesque town known for its vibrant arts scene, she decided to invest in ''a
funky little computer store,'' which she and her partners called Roadrunner
Computer Solutions. In 1999, with the dot-com boom in full swing, Hill sold the
domain name Roadrunner.com to Time Warner for a seven-figure sum, a sale that
was never publicly disclosed.

That experience has apparently emboldened Hill to seek a similar sum from the
Nets. In 1996, she paid $20,000 to acquire 500 subscribers from an Internet
provider that was leaving the industry, and Nets.com happened to be the domain
associated with it. She said 50 people or so still used Nets.com email
addresses.

''It's a word in the dictionary,'' she said, touting the domain's potential
value.

When she heard the Nets were making a splashy move to Brooklyn, she thought it
would be a good time to ask her lawyer to make them an offer. When the team
declined, Hill was hardly deterred.

''We were determined not to be malicious in any way, but we did want to get a
little bit of attention,'' she said.

She got plenty of attention with the first prank website, which featured the
photo of Cuban and the banner: ''Looking for the New Jersey Nets? Looking for
the Brooklyn Nets? They're not here ... but they SHOULD be!''

At the bottom of the page was a message written in Russian that translated
roughly to ''Mikhail, are you watching? Vilena wants to know.''

The website Complex posted an article with the headline ''Did Mark Cuban Buy
Nets.com to Take Shots at the Brooklyn Nets and their Owner Mikhail Prokhorov?''
And ''Vilena,'' according to one widely promulgated theory, was the name of a
woman involved in an incident in 2007 in which Prokhorov was questioned in a
prostitution inquiry in France.

In fact, Hill said, Vilena was simply the name of a Russian woman in her
accounting department who had helped type the message.

The Nets did not budge; neither did Hill. Bouncing Nets fans to the nether
corners of the Internet became the pet project of her 37-year-old son, John, who
operates the company's voice switch.

John Hill is a sports junkie who follows the San Francisco 49ers, the Detroit
Pistons and the Mets; earlier this year, he sent the Nets faithful to Mets.com.
He said he took pride in coming up with references that were a step below the
obvious, like the switch to Kidd's website or a redirection to the Boston
Celtics home page, which he did after the Nets completed a high-profile trade to
get Paul Pierce and Kevin Garnett.

''The one compliment I take to heart is when people say, 'This is the ultimate
troll,' '' he said. ''There's some joy in that.''

Like all major sports teams, the Nets devote considerable resources to producing
original content on their website and social media accounts. They bought
BrooklynNets.com before their move to the borough in 2012 for an undisclosed
sum. The cat-and-mouse game with Hill has proved more of a nuisance than a true
threat to the team's bottom line.

Still, the Hills refuse to throw in the towel, and they remain confident that
they can cash in on Nets.com in the seven-figure range. After all, John Hill
pointed out, Whisky.com sold for $3.1 million last year.

This month, he put the domain name on eBay to test the public market for it.

''Maybe you are the proprietor of the world's pre-eminent manufacturer of tennis
court nets? Fishnets? Volleyball nets? Goalpost nets?'' his listing reads. ''Or,
maybe you just happen to have a basketball team of the same name?''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/12/sports/basketball/taunting-nets-family-makes-i
t-their-domain-.html

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jane Hill, left, who runs the New Mexico company that owns
Nets.com, and her son John use pranks like the one above to push the Nets to buy
the domain. (B12)
 Jane Hill, above, acquired the Nets.com domain in 1996 through her company,
Cyber Mesa Telecom, from an Internet provider  that had used the name. She has
asked the Nets for $5 million for the domain. Above left, an ad for the company
from long ago. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK HOLM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 12, 2014 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. and China Reach Agreement on Climate After Months of Talks

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Keith Bradsher and Chris Buckley contributed reporting
from Hong Kong, and Coral Davenport from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1396 words


BEIJING -- China and the United States made common cause on Wednesday against
the threat of climate change, staking out an ambitious joint plan to curb carbon
emissions as a way to spur nations around the world to make their own cuts in
greenhouse gases.

The landmark agreement, jointly announced here by President Obama and President
Xi Jinping, includes new targets for carbon emissions reductions by the United
States and a first-ever commitment by China to stop its emissions from growing
by 2030.

Administration officials said the agreement, which was worked out quietly
between the United States and China over nine months and included a letter from
Mr. Obama to Mr. Xi proposing a joint approach, could galvanize efforts to
negotiate a new global climate agreement by 2015.

It was the signature achievement of an unexpectedly productive two days of
meetings between the leaders. Mr. Obama and Mr. Xi also agreed to a military
accord designed to avert clashes between Chinese and American planes and
warships in the tense waters off the Chinese coast, as well as an understanding
to cut tariffs for technology products.

A climate deal between China and the United States, the world's No. 1 and No. 2
carbon polluters, is viewed as essential to concluding a new global accord.
Unless Beijing and Washington can resolve their differences, climate experts
say, few other countries will agree to mandatory cuts in emissions, and any
meaningful worldwide pact will be likely to founder.

''The United States and China have often been seen as antagonists,'' said a
senior official, speaking in advance of Mr. Obama's remarks. ''We hope that this
announcement can usher in a new day in which China and the U.S. can act much
more as partners.''

As part of the agreement, Mr. Obama announced that the United States would emit
26 percent to 28 percent less carbon in 2025 than it did in 2005. That is double
the pace of reduction it targeted for the period from 2005 to 2020.

China's pledge to reach peak carbon emissions by 2030, if not sooner, is even
more remarkable. To reach that goal, Mr. Xi pledged that so-called clean energy
sources, like solar power and windmills, would account for 20 percent of China's
total energy production by 2030.

Administration officials acknowledged that Mr. Obama could face opposition to
his plans from a Republican-controlled Congress. While the agreement with China
needs no congressional ratification, lawmakers could try to roll back Mr.
Obama's initiatives, undermining the United States' ability to meet the new
reduction targets.

Still, Mr. Obama's visit, which came days after a setback in the midterm
elections, allowed him to reclaim some of the momentum he lost at home. As the
campaign was turning against the Democrats last month, Mr. Obama quietly
dispatched John Podesta, a senior adviser who oversees climate policy, to
Beijing to try to finalize a deal.

For all the talk of collaboration, the United States and China also displayed
why they are still fierce rivals for global economic primacy, promoting
competing free-trade blocs for the Asian region even as they reached climate and
security deals.

The maneuvering came during a conference of Pacific Rim economies held in
Beijing that has showcased China's growing dominance in Asia, but also the
determination of the United States, riding a resurgent economy, to reclaim its
historical role as a Pacific power.

Adding to the historic nature of the visit, Mr. Obama and Mr. Xi were scheduled
to give a joint news conference on Wednesday that will include questions from
reporters -- a rare concession by the Chinese leader to a visiting American
president.

On Tuesday evening, Mr. Xi invited Mr. Obama to dinner at his official
residence, telling his guest he hoped they had laid the foundation for a
collaborative relationship -- or, as he more metaphorically put it, ''A pool
begins with many drops of water.''

Greeting Mr. Obama at the gate of the walled leadership compound next to the
Forbidden City, Mr. Xi squired him across a brightly lighted stone bridge and
into the residence. Mr. Obama told the Chinese president that he wanted to take
the relationship ''to a new level.''

''When the U.S. and China are able to work together effectively,'' he added,
''the whole world benefits.''

But as the world witnessed this week, it is more complicated than that. Mr. Xi
won approval Tuesday from the 21 countries of the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation forum to study the creation of a China-led free-trade zone that
would be an alternative to Mr. Obama's Trans-Pacific Partnership, a 12-nation
trading bloc that excludes China.

On Monday, Mr. Obama met with members of that group here and claimed progress in
negotiating the partnership, a centerpiece of his strategic shift to Asia.

Negotiations for the Trans-Pacific Partnership are much further along than those
for the nascent Chinese plan, known as the Free Trade Area of Asia Pacific, and
some analysts said the approval by the Pacific Rim nations of a two-year study
was mainly a gesture to the Chinese hosts to give them something to announce at
the meeting.

For all the jockeying, the biggest trade headline was a breakthrough in
negotiations with China to eliminate tariffs on information technology products,
from video-game consoles and computer software to medical equipment and
semiconductors.

The understanding, American officials said, opens the door to expanding a World
Trade Organization agreement on these products, assuming other countries can be
persuaded to accept the same terms. With China on board, officials predicted a
broader deal would be reached swiftly.

''We're going to take what's been achieved here in Beijing back to Geneva to
work with our W.T.O. partners,'' said Michael B. Froman, the United States trade
representative. ''While we don't take anything for granted, we're hopeful that
we'll be able to work quickly'' to conclude an expansion of the agreement, known
as the Information Technology Agreement.

On Wednesday morning, Mr. Xi formally welcomed Mr. Obama at a ceremony in the
Great Hall of the People; they later toasted each other at a state banquet.

Administration officials said Mr. Obama had pressed Mr. Xi to resume a United
States-China working group on cybersecurity issues, which abruptly stopped its
discussions after the United States charged several Chinese military officers
with hacking.

''We did see a chill in the cyber dialogue,'' said Benjamin J. Rhodes, the
deputy national security adviser. ''We do believe it's better if there's a
mechanism for dialogue.''

On Tuesday, Mr. Obama credited APEC with originating the work on reducing
tariffs, saying, ''The United States and China have reached an understanding
that we hope will contribute to a rapid conclusion of the broader negotiations
in Geneva.''

Talks with China over expanding the 1997 accord on information technology broke
down last year over the scope of the products covered by the agreement. But
after intensive negotiations leading up to Mr. Obama's visit, Mr. Froman said,
the Americans and the Chinese agreed Monday evening to eliminate more than 200
categories of tariffs.

While the United States still exports many high-technology goods, China is the
world's dominant exporter of electronics and has much to gain from an
elimination of tariffs. Taiwan, South Korea and Japan increasingly find
themselves supplying China's huge electronics industry, deepening their
dependence on decisions made in Beijing.

The administration estimated that expanding the Information Technology Agreement
would create up to 60,000 jobs in the United States by eliminating tariffs on
goods that generate $1 trillion in sales a year. About $100 billion of those
products are American-made. The administration faces a longer path on the
Trans-Pacific Partnership, including whether Mr. Obama will obtain fast-track
trade authority from Congress. That could make it easier for the United States
to extract concessions from other countries, since they would have more
confidence that the treaty would be ratified by Congress.

While Mr. Froman conceded that sticking points remained, he said, ''It's become
clearer and clearer what the landing zones are.'' He said that Mr. Obama would
seek fast-track authority, but that the best way for him to win congressional
passage of the Trans-Pacific Partnership would be to negotiate the best deal.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/12/world/asia/china-us-xi-obama-apec.html

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Sinosphere)

                           November 13, 2014 Thursday

U.S. Policy Makers Could See Opportunity in China's Rise

BYLINE: EDWARD WONG

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 478 words



HIGHLIGHT: &#8220;It would be a mistake to view increased frictions as the
result of inattention or clumsy policy,&#8221; says Ely Ratner, deputy director
of the Asia-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a New American Security.



The relationship between the United States and China has been in the spotlight
this week as President Obama and President Xi Jinping dined with each other in
Beijing, took short walks in the wintry night air and announced agreements on
climate change, trade and military cooperation. On Wednesday, after eating his
fill of Peking duck during the visit, his second to China since taking office,
Mr. Obama flew to Myanmar, while Mr. Xi returned to the business of governing
the world's most populous nation.

Observers have offered their insights throughout the week to The Times. Among
them is Ely Ratner, senior fellow and deputy director of the Asia-Pacific
Security Program at the Center for a New American Security. Before that, Dr.
Ratner served with the United States State Department as the lead political
officer covering China's external relations in Asia. He has also worked at the
RAND Corporation and as a staff member on the United States Senate Foreign
Relations Committee. His recent writings have focused on competition over
resources and territory in the South China Sea.

Following are Dr. Ratner's thoughts on the state of United States-China ties:

There is growing alarm in Washington about the direction Xi Jinping is taking
China with rising nationalism, xenophobia and assertiveness toward its
neighbors. At the same time, it appears Xi is more serious than his predecessors
about economic reform and more prepared to make significant contributions on
global issues of importance to the United States like Ebola, Afghanistan and
climate change. So despite having serious concerns, U.S. policy makers also see
considerable opportunity.

What this means from a policy-making perspective is that the administration
wants to remain focused on concrete initiatives with China to better manage
areas of competition and to cooperate on issues of common interest. This means
forgoing big sweeping pronouncements and breakthroughs and instead aiming for
practical, high-impact outcomes. You'll hear this loud and clear from the
administration next week.

Personally I don't think it's right to say there's been a downturn in relations
or that we're at a low point in a cycle. It would be a mistake to view increased
frictions as the result of inattention or clumsy policy. Instead, the rise of
China is at once intensifying areas of competition and opening new opportunities
for cooperation. This puts a priority on sustained high-level diplomacy to
manage the former and pursue the latter. It's no accident that Obama has met
with his Chinese counterpart more than any American president in history.

If you want to gauge the health of the U.S.-China ties, the key question is
whether both sides remain invested in the relationship, and despite increased
tensions over the likes of cyber and maritime issues, the answer remains a
resounding yes.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 13, 2014 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

J.C. Penney and Macy's Post Lackluster Sales Before Holidays

BYLINE: By RACHEL ABRAMS and HIROKO TABUCHI

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 939 words


J.C. Penney and Macy's both reported lackluster sales in the third quarter, the
latest sign that despite low gas prices and improving job numbers, retailers
just cannot persuade shoppers to spend.

Both retailers cited warmer fall weather as one of the reasons sales were off,
as consumers postponed buying heavier clothes and items for winter.

J.C. Penney reported a loss of 62 cents a share on sales of $2.76 billion in the
third quarter, compared with a loss of $1.94 a share on $2.78 billion for the
same period last year. Analysts were expecting the company, which is in the
middle of a major turnaround, to post revenue of $2.81 billion, according to a
poll by Thomson Reuters.

While the retailer reported a loss of $188 million in the quarter that ended
Nov. 1, that represented an improvement over last year, when Penney reported a
loss of $489 million.

Home and fine jewelry helped drive sales, the retailer said in its earnings
announcement, although same-store sales were also flat compared with last year.
The chain has been busy getting back on its feet after missteps in marketing and
pricing led to steep losses. Last year, Penney's board ousted the former chief
executive, Ron Johnson, after just 17 months on the job.

''We are nearing the completion of J.C. Penney's turnaround,'' Myron E. Ullman,
J.C. Penney's chief executive, told analysts in a conference call after the
earnings announcement. ''But competition is certainly rigorous and fierce. We
recognize we have to compete every week, every day.''

He said that like other retailers, sales had slowed in September and October
despite a strong start to the back-to-school season. Aside from weather-related
dips in sales, Mr. Ullman also said he suspected that customers were holding
back on spending until the year-end sales.

The picture was not much better at Macy's, which has weathered the tough retail
climate better than many of its competitors. Total sales for the quarter fell
1.3 percent, to $6.2 billion, compared with the same period last year, the
company said on Wednesday.

But keeping costs down helped its profit rise to $217 million, or 61 cents a
share, up from $177 million, or 47 cents a share, in the same quarter a year
ago.

''We are very pleased with our third-quarter earnings, even though the sales
performance fell short of our expectations,'' Terry J. Lundgren, Macy's chief
executive, said in a statement. ''We knew we were up against very strong
third-quarter sales growth for our company last year.''

Macy's has at least reported modest increases in profit this year. For the first
three quarters of 2014, it had net income of $733 million, up from $675 million
for the same period last year.

In particular, Mr. Lundgren highlighted the company's strategies for online
shoppers, including offering in-store pickup that could help drive foot traffic
to its brick-and-mortar Macy's and Bloomingdale's stores.

Still, Macy's lowered its expectations for the rest of 2014. The company
forecast that earnings per diluted share for the year would range from $4.25 to
$4.35, down from its earlier forecast of $4.40 to $4.50.

Karen M. Hoguet, Macy's chief financial officer, also blamed warmer weather for
the sluggish sales. But she said Macy's would have its ''accelerator pushed to
the floor this holiday season,'' and expressed optimism about the company's
strategy to get customers into the stores. By offering in-store pickup, more
customers flock to the Macy's and Bloomingdale's locations during the holiday
season, she said.

''We're finding a significant up-spend in total on the customers that are coming
into the store,'' Ms. Hoguet said during a call with analysts to discuss the
company's third quarter results.

The mix of sluggish retail sales with a recovering economy has puzzled analysts,
who had expected shoppers to emphatically return to stores after signs of
improving consumer confidence, lower gas prices and a fall in unemployment. But
disappointing results from the retailers themselves have prompted analysts to
temper their expectations for a shopping rebound.

''Persistent softness among publicly traded retailers is somewhat puzzling to us
given current economic conditions,'' Ken Perkins, president of the analytics
company, Retail Metrics, wrote in a note. He pointed to a lack of wage gains for
lower-income consumers, as well as a shift in spending toward autos, mobile data
plans and smartphones, as negatives for retailers.

Savvy consumers have grown accustomed to waiting for the aggressive holiday
discounts that have become the norm in recent years, said Robert Plaza, a senior
equity analyst at Key Private Bank. That made the sales season even more
critical for retailers this year, he said.

''People are saving up. They're waiting for the year-end sales,'' he said.

In response, retailers are trying to squeeze the most out of their holiday
season sales. Walmart's Black Friday sales will now stretch over a five-day
period, from 12:01 a.m. online on Thanksgiving and running through ''Cyber
Monday'' on Dec. 1, the retail giant said this week.

''It became Black Friday, then it became Thursday, and now it's becoming
weeklong. Maybe it's going to be November,'' Duncan Mac Naughton, executive vice
president and chief merchandising officer for Walmart U.S., said in a call on
Tuesday.

J.C. Penney is also gearing up for a longer, harder sell to shoppers this
holiday season.

''Though they have more money to spend because of low fuel prices, they're still
savvy and want to make sure they're spending their money wisely,'' Mr. Ullman
said.

''We feel that we're well prepared for Black Friday week, if you want to call it
that.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/13/business/jc-penney-and-macys-post-lackluster-s
ales-in-quarter-before-holidays.html

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shopping for boots at the recently renovated Macy's in
Manhattan. The chain's profit rose. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Open)

                           November 13, 2014 Thursday

Embracing HTTPS

BYLINE: EITAN KONIGSBURG, RAJIV PANT and ELENA KVOCHKO

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 809 words



HIGHLIGHT: In light of a growing number of cyber security and data privacy
concerns, replacing HTTP with its secure alternative, HTTPS, is becoming
increasingly important.


In light of a growing number of cyber security and data privacy concerns,
replacing HTTP with its secure alternative, HTTPS, is becoming increasingly
important.

Although HTTPS has been around for 20 years, many websites have traditionally
served traffic over an insecure HTTP channel. In the early days of the web,
server and network performance were often limiting factors as to whether a site
used HTTPS. The server had to have enough horsepower to handle the encryption
and decryption of the data, and the network had to be able to handle the extra
activity.

Many of these performance concerns have become obsolete - the cost of adoption
is now low enough that we should start looking into using HTTPS everywhere.

Benefits of HTTPS

1. Authenticity of News Delivery


     ·    When you are reading a news Web site using HTTP, the content of the
          articles could have been altered by third parties using
          man-in-the-middle (MITM) vectors. Newstweek shows how easily this can
          be done.


2. Privacy


     ·    When sites use HTTP, their users' search and browsing history are
          transmitted for anyone to see. The Freedom of the Press Foundation
          recently urged news media sites to switch to HTTPS.
     ·    When sites use HTTPS, proxies and Internet backbone infrastructure
          can't as easily inspect traffic and throttle it based on content. Some
          entities can potentially break or get around Transport Layer Security
          (TLS), or steal TLS certificates. However, implementing HTTPS raises
          the barrier of privacy protection significantly.


3. Security


     ·    When sites use HTTP, their users' session cookies can be intercepted
          and used to replicate a user's active session by others. This has been
          demonstrated using the Firesheep browser plugin.
     ·    The use of HTTPS disables most MITM vectors, reducing the
          vulnerability profile.


4. Improved Ranking in Search Engines


     ·    Search engines treat HTTPS as a factor in ranking search results.
          Google's announcement is an example of this.


5. Better Analytics


     ·    Website referrers are dropped when a user goes to an HTTP page from an
          HTTPS page. This means referrals from secure sites, including Google
          on HTTPS, are lost for sites using HTTP.


6. Better User Experience


     ·    When using HTTPS, login, registration and other e-commerce
          integrations can happen anywhere on the site, without having to go to
          a separate HTTPS site.


7. Third-Party Integrations


     ·    An increasing number of third parties require HTTPS to use some of
          their services.


8. Using Emerging Technologies


     ·    The SPDY and HTTP2 protocols, ServiceWorker and other new technologies
          are designed to work better with HTTPS sites. While these are not
          mainstream yet, adopting HTTPS now eases future adoption.


9. Related Improvements


     ·    Successfully replacing HTTP with HTTPS for an entire website is likely
          to uncover a significant amount of existing technical debt (for
          example, hard-coded URLs).


The Challenges

To successfully move to HTTPS, all requests to page assets need to be made over
a secure channel. It's a daunting challenge, and there are a lot of moving
parts. We have to consider resources that are currently being loaded from
insecure domains - everything from JavaScript to advertisement assets.

If the assets for an advertisement aren't able to serve over an HTTPS channel,
the advertisement will probably not display on the page, directly affecting
revenue. It can be difficult  to determine if each advertisement will load over
HTTPS. Considering the importance of advertisements, this is very likely to be a
significant hurdle to many media organizations' implementation of HTTPS. While
some advertising platforms, including Google's DoubleClick for Publishers (DFP),
do support HTTPS loading, there are still a number of ad networks that may not
be HTTPS-compatible.

Aside from advertising, organizations may face other hurdles while implementing
HTTPS. Support for modern solutions, such as HSTS, are worth consideration.

A Call to Action

If you run a news site, or any site at all, we'd like to issue a friendly
challenge to you. Make a commitment to have your site fully on HTTPS by the end
of 2015 and pledge your support with the hashtag #https2015.

Further Reading


     ·    Simple steps to protect journalists and sources from eavesdroppers by
          Tom Lowenthal, Staff Technologist at the Committee to Protect
          Journalists
     ·    Minimize Your User's Digital Footprint by Terrence Weekes, Director of
          Information Security & CISO Consultant at Accuvant, A Blackstone
          Company
     ·    Security/Server Side TLS on the Mozilla Wiki
     ·    Deploying TLS the Hard Way by Tim Taubert, Engineering Manager and
          Senior Engineer at Mozilla.
     ·    Optimizing HTTPS on Nginx by Bjørn Johansen
     ·    Message Security Layer: A Modern Take on Securing Communication on the
          Netflix blog


Eitan Konigsburg is a software engineering architect and Rajiv Pant is the chief
technology officer at The New York Times. Elena Kvochko is a cyber security and
technology strategist.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                           November 13, 2014 Thursday

Today in Small Business: Avoiding Bad Yelp Reviews

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 585 words



HIGHLIGHT: Did this &#8220;cereal milk&#8221; start-up target the wrong market?
Should small businesses have to offer health insurance to part-time workers? The
ultimate list of start-up competitions, hackathons, business-plan contests and
more.


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.

The Economy

Jobless claims rise unexpectedly.

Wal-Mart Stores reports that comparable sales at its American stores rose for
the first time in seven quarters.

Start-Up

A company raises investment money for a feedback tool to help businesses act
before a poor Yelp review gets posted.

Did this "cereal milk" start-up ami at the wrong market

Here is the "ultimate list" of start-up competitions, hackathons, business-plan
contests and more.

Coca-Cola is investing $1 million in its start-up incubator.

Health Care

Should small businesses have to offer health insurance to part-time workers?

Online

Google Fiber is introduced for small businesses.

Chinese hackers breach American national weather websites.

Amazon Web Services says it has a million active customers.

Americans say they want privacy, but they act as if they don't.

AT&T says it is halting improvements until the Federal Communications Commission
decides on net neutrality.

Opportunities

Low-cost loans are fueling a healthy market for the buying and selling of
restaurant companies.

Lyft's co-founder imagines a future where strangers share driverless cars.

But the sharing economy is hurting a lot of small businesses.

Some politicians are eager to subsidize craft brewers.

There are opportunities and risks in the $10 billion gluten-free food trend.

General Electric expects infrastructure demand in developing markets to be a
"huge engine" of growth.

Employees

  Some 18,000 nurses in Northern California walk out over contract talks.

These seven charts explain why so many workers are still part-time.

An on-demand "handyman" and house-cleaning start-up is facing a class-action
lawsuit for violating labor laws.

Retail

Macy's and J.C. Penney both unveil same-day delivery services.

Here's how giving workers off on Thanksgiving became a retailing promotional
scheme.

RadioShack decides to modify its holiday hours.

A Black Friday line is already forming outside a California Best Buy.

Verizon is offering pre-Black Friday freebies.

Management

The makers of caffeinated underwear are fined $1.5 million.

Here are 11 signs a company is in a "bad mood" - and what to do about it.

Bad press (and Harry Potter) are contributing to SeaWorld's epic bellyflop.

Twitter's early backers want the company's chief executive to clarify his plan.

Hotel Chocolat truffles were treated as explosives by the Food and Drug
Administration.

Around the Country

Michigan business owners talk about their expectations and challenges for 2015.

A California pony ride owner is suing a group of animal rights activists for
defamation.

A bill passed in Ohio is intended to make state government more responsive to
small businesses.

Around the World

The United Nations issues a statement criticizing the latest threat to world
peace: American states legalizing marijuana.

 Australian retailers are not expecting happy holidays.

Business Travel

Here is how to be a gracious mooch on your pal's business trip.

Marketing

Here is how Google lost hundreds of thousands of dollars in an hour and a half.

HubSpot announces 51-percent revenue growth for the third quarter.

Social Media

Here are 10 things you should never share on your company's social media
accounts.

Microsoft joins Instagram and hires a photographer to travel the world.

Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps
clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (T Magazine)

                            November 14, 2014 Friday

Walmart's Dark November, Ralph Rucci's Departure, and Who Is Beyonce?

BYLINE: HILARY MOSS

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 598 words



HIGHLIGHT: Plus, Kendall picks Chanel, Calvin Klein&#8217;s
&#8220;controversy&#8221; and more from the week in style.


 All the week's fashion news that's fit to reprint.

What's that jacket, Galliano?

According to Women's Wear Daily, John Galliano has acclimated to his gig as
creative director of Maison Martin Margiela, donning the house's signature white
lab coat when he's on the clock. Plus, said a source, the enigmatic Margiela
"let it be known that he approves" of Galliano's appointment, presumably by
mask-clad carrier pigeon.

No Benzito up in the New York Fashion Weeko?

NYFW's big-name sponsor, Mercedes-Benz, might back out of the festivities after
a five-year partnership.

Ralph Rucci out

The designer is departing from his eponymous label "to pursue other creative
endeavors," and a replacement should be named in time to produce resort 2016.
The pre-fall and fall 2015 collections will be team efforts.

Walmart's Black November

Outdoing Macy's Black pre-Friday opening time (6 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day, a
full six hours before the term can properly be applied), Walmart will hold its
sales during a five-day span. "It used to be called Black Friday, then it became
Thursday, now it's a week long," the retailer's U.S. chief merchant, Duncan Mac
Naughton, told The Wall Street Journal. "Maybe we should just call it November."
Though we suspect he's angling for "National Walmart Appreciation Month."

Cara and Kendall's scheduling conflict

Confronted with a toughie, Cara Delevingne and Kendall Jenner have reportedly
decided to skip the 2014 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show for Chanel's Métiers
d'Art runway - both scheduled for Dec. 2!

Beyoncé for $600, Alex

Bey had her own category on Tuesday night's "Jeopardy!" filled with rather easy
fare ("Beyoncé's daughter sounds like a colorful plant with this first and
middle name"). But hearing Alex Trebek utter the lyric "that liquor get into me"
proved entertaining - and, upon repeated viewings, haunting.

American in peril

Printed leggings and miscellaneous sleaze purveyor American Apparel posted its
largest sales decline since 2010. From Bloomberg: "The net loss in the third
quarter expanded to $19.2 million, or 11 cents a share, from a loss of $1.5
million, or 1 cent, a year earlier," and revenue dropped 5.3 percent to $155.9
million.

So you think you can design/model/style

Inspired by "American Idol" and "The Voice," VFiles uploaded an open call to
cast three designers, 30 to 40 models, a stylist, a makeup artist and a
photographer for its fall/winter 2015 show. Carlyne Cerf de Dudzeele will play
the role of Simon Cowell.

CK, spun

This week in arguably uncontroversial controversies: Calvin Klein featured the
model Myla Dalbesio in the brand's Perfectly Fit underwear campaign, the
consensus being that size-10 Dalbesio isn't plus-sized. "But as it happens,
Calvin Klein never labeled Ms. Dalbesio a plus-size model or presented her that
way in its ads," noted Vanessa Friedman in her analysis. "The conversation was
prompted by an interview with the model in Elle magazine in which she talks
about plus-size modeling, and the problems with being neither a super-skinny
girl nor a really big one."

Related: "Vogue Explores Big Boobs, Likes What It Sees"

An exceptional headline from the Cut's Kat Stoeffel.

Christopher Bailey's right to shoes

As part of the chief executive and chief creative officer at Burberry's
five-point plan, the brand will better use its online data, further develop
shoes and accessories and emphasize mobile.

Instagram of the Week

#BreakTheInternet #PaperMag #KimKardashian

A photo posted by schillustration (@schillustration) on Nov 11, 2014 at 12:52am
PST

[View on Instagram]

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 16, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Internet and the Mind

BYLINE: By JACOB SILVERMAN.

Jacob Silverman's book, ''Terms of Service: Social Media, Surveillance, and the
Price of Constant Connection,'' will be published in March.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; THE SHORTLIST; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1013 words


CURIOUS  The Desire to Know and Why Your Future Depends on It  By Ian Leslie
Basic Books, $26.99.

Curiosity comes in for praise, historical grounding and some prognostication in
Leslie's book, which argues that ''the web threatens habits of deeper inquiry.''

This isn't simple techno-skepticism. Leslie delineates the various types of
curiosity (diversive, epistemic, empathic) and what might be lost as we lean on
search engines and offload our memories to cloud storage. He's at his best when
considering how socioeconomic conditions impede curiosity. For example, he looks
at studies showing that upper- and middle-class children ask more questions, and
are also asked more questions by their parents. One explanation might be that
poorer parents work long hours; their children are left to fend for themselves
more and miss out on such conversations. It's no small matter. Children pose
more than a hundred questions an hour when actively engaged, and this kind of
freewheeling communication is essential for development. Invoking similar
reasoning, Leslie defends teachers and traditional pedagogy against the
encroachment of MOOCs.

It's disappointing, then, that Leslie's social consciousness does not extend to
offering solutions or more substantial systemic critiques. Guaranteed parental
leave, subsidized child care, increased funding for libraries, cheap higher
education and single-payer health care would narrow the gap preventing many from
following their intellectual impulses.

THE ORGANIZED MIND  Thinking Straight in the Age of Information Overload  By
Daniel J. Levitin  Dutton, $27.95.

Levitin, a neuroscientist, addresses another problem of the age: How can we
think clearly in a world awash with information? We should model ourselves after
''highly successful persons,'' or H.S.P.s, he says. From rock stars to Fortune
500 C.E.O.s, H.S.P.s tend to have remarkable organizational systems. Because
these achievers ''have many of the daily distractions of life handled for
them,'' they can ''devote all of their attention to whatever is immediately
before them. They seem to live completely in the moment.''

Levitin is about as knowledgeable a guide to neuroscience as one might hope for.
He leads us lucidly from the neurochemistry of the ''attentional system'' to how
consciousness is constituted. But the book founders on its hero worship. Do we
need to know that ''Joni Mitchell's home is a paragon of organizational
systems''? And at nearly 500 pages, ''The Organized Mind'' calls for some
judicious organizing and trimming of its own.

Still, the book is capacious enough to satisfy multitudes. Neuroscience buffs
will appreciate the elucidation of ­memory-formation, while the practical-minded
should enjoy lessons like: ''The most fundamental principle of the organized
mind . . . is to shift the burden of organizing from our brains to the external
world.'' That calendar app never looked so useful.

PRESSED FOR TIME  The Acceleration of Life in Digital Capitalism  By Judy
Wajcman  University of Chicago, $24.

''Why do we turn to digital devices to alleviate time pressure and yet blame
them for driving it?'' This ''central paradox,'' as Wajcman calls it, is the
subject of her book, which alternates between ethnographic inquiry and
philosophical rumination on our relationship with time.

As it turns out, contemporary technology is full of such contradictions. ''New
modes of transport massively compress the time of travel,'' she writes, but they
''also lead to standing still in traffic jams in big cities.'' Some tools allow
us to shift, rather than save, time. The baby bottle, for example, ''enables
mothers to exercise more control over the timing of feeding.''

And the old saw turns out to be true: Time really is money. The rise of
standardized clock time is linked to the Industrial Revolution and the
development of the railways. Since the advent of the consumer society,
''temporal sovereignty'' -- the author's term for controlling how one's time is
spent -- has become a marker ''of a good life.'' On the other hand, ''busyness''
is now considered an emblem of success.

''Pressed for Time'' is a fine work of sociology that evinces deep concern for
how we actually use gadgets, rather than how we talk about them. The author
notes: ''Fears about 24/7 electronic connectedness have to be understood in the
context of the harsh economic climate and its attendant insecurity.'' Here
Wajcman's central paradox reveals itself again; our smartphones may be
empowering, but they may also be little more than flashing amulets, held close
during troubled times.

THE END OF ABSENCE  Reclaiming What We've Lost in a World of Constant Connection
By Michael Harris  Current, $26.95.

Harris asks his own version of the question of the moment: In the rush toward
constant connectivity, have we lost something essential?

This is, of course, the misgiving that has shadowed every advance in media, from
clay tablets to Gutenberg to television: the sense that things are different now
and not for the better, that the old ways might be irrevocably lost. (Harris
worries that we now suffer from a ''loss of lack.'')

But each epochal shift produces its own cultural turbulence. To parse this one,
Harris talks to media scholars; purveyors of dating apps; the novelist Douglas
Coup­land; and the mother of Amanda Todd, a Canadian teenager cyber-bullied into
committing suicide. He finds a partner online but remains agnostic about dating
sites, and struggles to get through ''War and Peace,'' while lamenting that the
Internet has eroded his attention span. ''We know everything and we know
nothing,'' he writes.

''The End of Absence'' is a genial and philosophical tour through one man's
anxieties surrounding digital life. Many of those anxieties are recognizable,
but Harris fails to cinch the book into something tighter, whether a narrative
of his own techno-spiritual journey or a concerted reckoning with what it means
now that none of us can ever be alone, surrounded as we are by a spectral
atmosphere of information.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/16/books/review/ian-leslies-curious-and-more.html

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHN GALL)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (On the Runway)

                            November 17, 2014 Monday

The Next Big Thing in Online Shopping: The Offline Connection

BYLINE: VANESSA FRIEDMAN

SECTION: FASHION

LENGTH: 387 words



HIGHLIGHT: The independent-boutiques site Farfetch now lets you return goods at
any participating store.


Just in time for Cyber Monday, that post-Thanksgiving at-your-laptop shopping
extravaganza, comes another step forward in the online shopping experience.

Farfetch, the e-commerce hub that connects consumers to indie boutiques
everywhere (there are 300 of them on the site), has begun a new initiative
called Click & Collect that allows you to order your stuff from whatever
boutique you want - in, say, Madrid or Copenhagen - and then have it delivered
to another participating boutique near you for alteration or similar services.

Try it on, fix it or, if it turns out you don't like it, the arrivals boutique
will send it back to the departures boutique for you. Even if they don't stock
it themselves and it has nothing to do with their inventory or revenue stream.

Zowie! Retailers working together for the greater good of the shopper! Sounds
good, but what's in it for the stores?

Good will, for one, and the opportunity to get the customers for themselves (now
that they are in the store, they might as well look around...). The chance to
increase that all-important footfall.

Plus, people are much more likely to order clothing if the alter-or-return
process is entirely painless. They are also more likely to keep garments if
whatever little tweaks may be needed can be done immediately.

It makes a great deal of sense, which is probably why more than half the
boutiques on Farfetch have signed on to the service. And yet, even now, there
are many global brands that don't offer this kind of buy-it-online,
fix-or-return-it-in-store experience.

I was talking to Marco Bizzarri, the chief executive of Kering's luxury
division, about it the other day and he pointed out that many brands' e-commerce
businesses were created separately from their bricks-and-mortar businesses, with
their own profit-and-loss statements and different product offerings. So what
may look the same was actually different.

In this case, however, it seems to me that looks DO matter, especially from a
consumer's point of view.

Logic dictates that if you buy a bag from a brand on your phone, you should be
able to take it back to one of that brand's stores if there is a problem. We
talk a lot about omni-platform shopping and the future, but it seems to me there
needs to be a seamless connection between the virtual and the bricks and mortar
first.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (Op-Talk)

                           November 20, 2014 Thursday

When Are You Not Working?

BYLINE: ANNA NORTH

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 837 words



HIGHLIGHT: For some Americans, the answer seems to be &#8220;never.&#8221;


"I'm guessing I will do my last work-related task at 12:15 a.m.," writes Nicole
Dieker at The Billfold. "How about you?"

She's responding to an Atlantic story by Gillian B. White, on Americans' work
schedules and how we feel about them. According to a recent Allstate/National
Journal Heartland Monitor Poll, Ms. White writes, 28 percent of Americans - and
over a third of the full-time employed - would like to work fewer hours. But,
she notes: "When it came to balancing work and home life, the main complaint
seems to be less about overall hours and more about working an unpredictable
schedule."

"About 41 percent of those who are currently employed say that their job
frequently requires them to be in contact outside of the office," she writes.
"And of those who do check in after working hours, about 56 percent said that
they checked in even while on vacation." River Medina, a transportation manager,
tells her, "The only times I've taken off were funerals."

Ms. Dieker notes that as a freelancer, she has more control over her time than
she did when she worked in an office. "But," she writes, "I also try to keep at
least one night a week free for all the overflow work that comes up. And, of
course, I answer emails at all hours." And, she adds:

"People who work shift jobs have even more unpredictable schedules, and this
creates the need for services like 24-hour day cares. Knowing when you will work
and how long you will be working seems like it would be one of the most basic
parts of employment, but it is continuously unclear, often until the moment that
it is happening."

For those whose work hours are unpredictable, Jodi Kantor of The Times reported
in a story focusing on Starbucks, "legislators and activists are now promoting
proposals and laws to mitigate the scheduling problems." But some, she noted,
argue that employers should use their existing scheduling software to generate
work schedules that are more humane. She added in a follow-up that Starbucks was
indeed changing its scheduling policies in response to her story - the group
president in charge of American stores, she wrote, "specified that all work
hours must be posted at least one week in advance" and "that scheduling software
will be revised to allow more input from managers."

But what about that 28 percent who just wish they could spend less time at work?
For them, the entrepreneur Nick Hanauer suggests a fairly simple remedy at
Politico Magazine: overtime pay. While over 65 percent of salaried Americans
qualified for overtime pay in 1975, he writes, only 11 percent did in 2013:
Employers aren't required to pay overtime to people making over $23,660 a year,
or to people in a variety of exempt roles (like "computer professional"). Mr.
Hanauer writes:

"Why, you might ask, are so many workers exempted from overtime? That's a fair
question. To be truthful, I have no earthly idea why. What I can tell you is
that these exemptions work out very well for your employers."

He calls for raising the overtime threshold to $69,000, which would restore
overtime to 1975 levels:

"In other words, if you earn $69,000 or less, the law would require that you be
paid overtime when you worked more than 40 hours a week. That's 10.4 million
middle-class Americans with more money in their pockets or more time to spend
with friends and family. And if corporate America didn't want to pay you time
and a half, it would need to hire hundreds of thousands of additional workers to
pick up the slack - slashing the unemployment rate and forcing up wages."

However, he's not optimistic that this will actually happen: "Officials will
very likely raise the overtime threshold just enough to say they're doing
something, without actually doing much of anything for the middle class or our
demand-starved economy at all."

And overtime wouldn't necessarily fix the problem of unpredictable schedules, or
work that takes over holidays. Ms. Dieker mentions "the workers asked to skip
Thanksgiving so that Black Friday can start a day early" - and Jillian Fisher
talked to some of these workers. According to Bryce Covert of ThinkProgress, Ms.
Fisher started a petition asking Kmart to let employees take Thanksgiving off if
they want to. One employee told Ms. Fisher, "Our manager stated at a staff
meeting: 'Everyone must work Thanksgiving and Black Friday. No time off.'" And,
Ms. Covert writes:

"Most workers have no idea whether they're going to be asked to give up some of
their Thanksgiving dinner to come to work, even with the holiday a week away.
Forty-three percent of the surveyed employees said they still don't know their
schedules for Thanksgiving or Black Friday."

Kmart told ThinkProgress in a statement that "associate schedules are posted, on
average, two weeks in advance" - and that those who work on Thanksgiving get
overtime. Some may prefer the holiday to the extra money, or at least the right
to make that choice. But those dealing with unpredictable schedules may feel
that choice is exactly what they lack.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                           November 20, 2014 Thursday

Today in Small Business: Why Typewriters Are Coming Back

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 502 words



HIGHLIGHT: What the Uber scandal says about start-up culture. How social
entrepreneurs are changing the world. An experienced entrepreneur talks about
work/life imbalance.


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.

The Economy


     ·    Jobless claims fall to their lowest level since 2000.
     ·    Existing-home sales hit a one-year high.
     ·    The Architecture Billings Index continues to show a positive outlook.


Start-Up


     ·    The Affordable Care Act has created opportunities for start-ups.
     ·    This start-up will give you a loan - but there's a twist.
     ·    Taking advantage of recent uncertainty among regulators, a start-up
          wants to use drones to deliver drugstore items.
     ·    Here is what the Uber scandal says about start-up culture.


Technology


     ·    Typewriters are making a comeback - they can't be hacked! - and small
          businesses are taking advantage.


Entrepreneurship


     ·    Here is how social entrepreneurs are changing the world.
     ·    Two influential organizations set their sights on helping women
          entrepreneurs.
     ·    A 14-year-old entrepreneur who sells sustainable and customizable leg
          warmers for dancers describes meeting President Obama.
     ·    An experienced entrepreneur shares his thoughts on work/life balance
          (and imbalance).


Management


     ·    Justin Timberlake becomes co-owner of an audio tech company.
     ·    At the heart of the Takata scandal is the auto supplier's decision in
          2001 to switch to a cheaper airbag propellant.
     ·    A PBS documentary exposes Firestone's secret deals with a Liberian
          strongman.


Social Media


     ·    A marketing specialist asks if now is the time to stop marketing on
          Facebook.


Employees


     ·    A reporter looks into the rumor that people are unhappy working at 3-D
          printing companies.
     ·    Uber is offering new perks to full-time drivers.


Retail


     ·    Most Americans are not going to be shopping on either Black Friday or
          Cyber Monday this year.
     ·    A former college baseball player gives his online store a physical
          location.
     ·    Starbucks is bringing wireless charging to some stores.


Taxes


     ·    These seven corporations make billions in profit - and have a tax rate
          of negative 2.5 percent.


Marketing


     ·    JetBlue will cut its legroom and charge for bags.
     ·    Here is why business books are blue.


Finance


     ·    A Verizon sweepstakes will award $5,000 to a business owner and
          another $5,000 to the owner's favorite charity.


Washington


     ·    The Justice Department says it collected nearly $25 billion in
          penalties and debts in fiscal year 2014.
     ·    The president is set to announce his immigration plan.


Online


     ·    China's online ad spending is booming.
     ·    A company that offers out-of-the-box protection for data in the cloud
          raises $50 million.


Around the Country


     ·    Dashed streetcar plans in Virginia spread uncertainty in two business
          corridors.
     ·    The Small Business Administration in South Florida is seeking judges
          for its Small Business Week Awards.


Around the World


     ·    Here is how Turkey is helping women-led businesses.
     ·    China builds a $350 million bridge to nowhere.
     ·    Muslim tourism takes off in Japan.
     ·    An English cafe is under fire after it put a sign in the window
          telling mothers they should breastfeed in the toilets.


Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps
clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 22, 2014 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Diplomatic Effort, and What a Final Agreement Might Look Like

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Q. AND A.; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1504 words


VIENNA -- Everything about the nuclear negotiations with Iran, now approaching a
crucial moment, is complex: the international politics, the implications for the
Middle East, and the science of how to prevent a nuclear energy project from
turning into a nuclear weapons program. Here are answers to questions about the
lead up to the diplomatic effort and what a comprehensive agreement might look
like.

Q. How did Iran get started on its nuclear program?

A. With American help. It was the United States that provided Iran with its
first small research reactor, provided to the shah, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, when
Iran was a strong ally. But after he was exiled to the United States at the
start of the Iranian revolution, Iran's first clerical ruler, Ayatollah Ruhollah
Khomeini, appeared to have little interest in things atomic.

The program withered until 1985. International Atomic Energy Agency documents
later showed that Iran began a uranium-enrichment program. Years later, American
intelligence assessments concluded that before 2004, Iran had developed a
full-scale weapons program. Iran denies that, saying the documents raising
questions about suspected weapons work were fabricated. Intelligence assessments
suggest that while Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader, halted the
most visible elements of the program in late 2003, there has been sporadic work
since, in a secret complex of military bases and in universities.

Q. What actions have the international community taken in an effort to halt
Iran's activities?

A. Just about everything, including diplomacy, sanctions and sabotage. A decade
ago, the European nations negotiated a full suspension of Iran's activities, but
that ultimately broke down. The Bush administration passed up an opportunity to
negotiate a deal when Iran had installed only a few hundred centrifuges, the
giant machines that enrich uranium. Many in the Obama administration say that
was a lost opportunity. Since then, Iran has installed more than 19,000
centrifuges even as the Obama administration planned aggressive sanctions, aimed
chiefly at oil revenue and financial connections to the West. In public,
American and European officials credit the sanctions for driving Iran to the
negotiating table.

In private, some officials acknowledge significant work to sabotage Iran's
program also has played a role. Defective parts have been slipped into Iran's
supply channel, for example. Scientists and engineers have been assassinated in
Tehran, actions widely attributed to Israel. The United States, in partnership
with Israel, also started an ambitious cybersabotage effort, code-named Olympic
Games, which was the first known American use of cyber weapons against another
state. Started by the Bush administration, and accelerated by President Obama,
the program sent a series of worms into the computers that run the Natanz
enrichment plant, forcing hundreds of centrifuges to break.

Taken together, the sanctions and the sabotage were intended to raise the cost
of the nuclear program and to make it clear to Iran that the West would seek to
slow any enrichment efforts. The Iranians insist these actions have had the
opposite effect, redoubling their determination to have an independent -- and
they insist, peaceful -- enrichment capability. The sanctions and sabotage are
often cited by hard-liners in Iran who argue that the United States and Europe
cannot be trusted and are seeking to overthrow the government in Iran. If those
views prevail in Iran's internal debates, it could derail any deal.

Q. What is each side hoping to achieve from the negotiations?

A. The Iranians want explicit acknowledgment of their right to make nuclear
fuel, and eventually to make as much of it as they desire for peaceful purposes,
they say. But they are also seeking an end to the crippling sanctions that have
cut their oil revenues by more than half, devalued their currency and made it
virtually impossible to conduct normal banking transactions around the world.

For their part, the United States and its negotiating partners -- Britain,
France, Germany, Russia and China -- have said they want a system to cut off all
of Iran's possible pathways to a bomb. That means they want to make sure Iran
cannot produce enough uranium to allow it to race for a bomb. And they want an
inspection system for Iran that is so comprehensive that the country could not
pursue a covert effort to build a weapon in a hidden facility, or to buy one,
presumably from North Korea or black market dealers.

The question is whether there is an acceptable middle ground that would allow
Iran to declare that the West has acknowledged its right to enrich and left it
with a significant capability to do so, while still satisfying the rest of the
world that Iran is not on the threshold of a capability to build an atomic
weapon.

Q. Many countries have nuclear programs. Why are we worried most about Iran?

A. There are the five declared nuclear weapon states: The United States,
Britain, France, Russia and China. Pakistan, India and North Korea have all
tested nuclear devices. Though it will not say, Israel is widely known to have
an arsenal of more than 100 nuclear weapons. And there are dozens of nonweapon
states with advanced nuclear know-how like Japan, with large nuclear stockpiles
and lots of scientific expertise, which could make a weapon if it ever decided
to.

So what's the worry about Iran? Israel cites the frequent statements by Iranian
leaders declaring that the Jewish state should not exist. The Saudis fear a
powerful Shia state, and say that if Iran gets the bomb, they will get one, too.
Many other Gulf Arab states would do the same. Those declarations create a
concern about a nuclear race that could devolve into an arms race in the Middle
East. This is a matter of trust. There are countries the United States does not
worry about with nuclear ability and there are countries like Pakistan that
everyone worries about. Iran would be in that category.

Q. What are the possible outcomes from negotiations?

A. One possibility is no deal at all, a complete collapse of negotiations that
have been going on now for more than a year. But that would not be in anyone's
interest. Congress would most likely impose new sanctions and if the current
temporary agreement, reached last year to give some time and space for these
negotiations, is allowed to expire, Iran could resume producing a type of fuel
that could be rapidly converted for weapons use.

So the most likely outcome is either a final agreement, some kind of muddled
agreement in principle with the details to be worked out later or another
extension in the talks.

Q. What has to happen in order to reach an agreement?

A. For any agreement to work, there needs to be three deals: One between the
West and Iran, one between Mr. Obama and a skeptical Congress and one between
the Iranian negotiators and Ayatollah Khamenei. The dynamics of the last two are
murky. Mr. Obama wants to suspend sanctions bit by bit, as the Iranians deliver
on their part of the deal, meaning Congress might not vote on this for years.
That angers many Republicans, and even some Democrats, who say they want a vote.
An even bigger mystery: Who makes the final decision in Iran? Presumably, it's
Ayatollah Khamenei's call, but the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, the elite
of Iran's military, will most likely have a big voice, too.

Q. What is the calculation for Iran?

A. The Iranians have a fundamental choice to make: Is the nuclear program worth
it? Most ordinary Iranians tell pollsters that they support a civilian nuclear
program in Iran, and very much want the West to show the kind of respect to the
country that it shows to other nations with nuclear technology. And they say
Iran has no interest in nuclear weapons, just what Ayatollah Khamenei has said,
including a fatwa or legal opinion declaring that the country should never
possess them. Iran has a young population, and it yearns for Western travel,
Western education and Western respect. An end to sanctions would be a sign of a
new era.

But inside the Iranian military, and among the clerics, Iran's nuclear program
is both an insurance policy and a symbol of the nation's identity as a
revolutionary state in a long struggle with the United States and its allies.
Iranian leaders have periodically observed that since North Korea tested its
nuclear devices, no one has dared push it to the brink. And it did not escape
their notice that a decade after Libya gave up its entire nuclear program, its
leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, was ousted an then killed by a combination of a
national uprising and a European, Arab and American bombing campaign.

In the end, these negotiations are not only about nuclear capability, but also
national pride and mutual reassurance. Iran does not want to be treated as an
outlier, but rather as a great regional power. The international community needs
the confidence that if the Iranians raced for a bomb, it would have plenty of
notice and time to react.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/22/world/middleeast/iran-nuclear-difficulties-in-
reaching-agreement.html

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The remains of a car used by an Iranian professor crucial to
Iran's nuclear program, who died in a bombing in Tehran in 2012. Some officials
have acknowledged work to sabotage the program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEHDI
MARIZAD/FARS NEWS AGENCY, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
An international nuclear inspection team in Iran in January. Iran has denied it
has a full-scale nuclear weapons program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAZEM GHANE/EUROPEAN
PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) MAP: Iran's Key Nuclear Facilities: It was the U.S. that
provided Iran with its first research reactor. (Source: Institute for Science
and International Security)
 CHART: Iran's Currency Plunges: The United States and Europe have  been
imposing harsh economic  sanctions against Iran since early  2012. In July 2013,
the Central  Bank of Iran devalued the rial to  40,000 to the dollar after
inflation  accelerated. (Source: Bloomberg)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 22, 2014 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Black Friday Campout

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COMMON SENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1211 words


By spreading its doorbuster specials over five days this year, Walmart may have
thought it was sounding the death knell for the annual shopping frenzy known as
Black Friday.

After all, in the era of one-click Internet shopping, who really wants to wait
in line overnight, or even multiple days and nights, to get first crack at the
deepest discounts?

Derek De Armond, that's who.

Mr. De Armond, 55, set up a tent at 10 a.m. on Nov. 11, more than two weeks
before Thanksgiving. He and three teammates, who rotate through the tent to hold
their place, are first in a growing line outside a Best Buy in Fort Myers, Fla.,
that will open its doors at 5 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day.

Critics of the Black Friday shopping frenzy and early store openings on
Thanksgiving have complained that they threaten the traditional holiday.

But for consumers like Mr. De Armond, the pre-Black Friday line has become a
Thanksgiving tradition that's every bit as important as -- and more fun than --
the turkey dinner.

''It's like a tailgate party at a football game,'' Mr. De Armond told me this
week. ''We barbecue every night. We invite people in; we've made new friends.''

And he and his teammates and his two sons will be sitting down for a traditional
turkey dinner -- inside the tent. One son will be home from military service in
Afghanistan. The other, a high school student, ''is embarrassed and doesn't want
any part of this, but he'll be here for dinner,'' Mr. De Armond said.

Mr. De Armond dismissed Walmart's efforts to diminish the importance of Black
Friday, which has thrived despite previous attempts by retailers to change or
rebrand it. After all, ''black,'' when used as an adjective affixed to a day of
the week, hardly has a positive connotation -- it has traditionally applied to
catastrophes like the stock market crash of 1929.

Research by a member of the American Dialect Society, Bonnie Taylor-Blake,
suggests that black was first applied to the day after Thanksgiving by the
Philadelphia police to describe the traffic jams afflicting Philadelphia's
downtown shopping district in the early 1960s.

In an effort to put a more positive spin on it, retailers campaigned to rename
it ''Big'' Friday, but when that failed to stick, they floated the apocryphal
notion that it's the day when retailers begin to show a profit.

Despite the efforts of Walmart and some other retailers, ''Black Friday is
always going to be Black Friday,'' said Melissa Martin, a spokeswoman for
BlackFriday.com, an website that Mr. De Armond consulted to identify this year's
best deals. ''It's not going away. It's a tradition in my family to get together
and head out shopping on Black Friday, and I think that's the case for many
people. A lot of people love camping out. It's an experience. But for people who
don't want to stand in lines, or want to shop online, there are going to be more
opportunities to score deals.''

As is the case for many Americans, Black Friday brings out Mr. De Armond's
competitive streak, which is one of the reasons retailers offer only a limited
number of their best deals.

Four years ago, he arrived at 6 p.m. for a midnight Thanksgiving opening and
found hundreds of people ahead of him. The next year, he arrived a day early,
and still wasn't able to get the advertised doorbusters. Two years ago, he put
up a pup tent.

This year, he made camp earlier than ever, determined to stake out a position at
the head of the line. ''People have tried to slide in ahead of me, but I'm
basically sending the message, don't even try,'' Mr. De Armond said.

Much as the Pilgrims overcame adversity, Mr. De Armond has elevated the usually
mundane task of waiting in line into something akin to performance art. This
year, his tent has three rooms and is equipped with air-conditioning, a screened
porch, a hammock, a 42-inch flat-screen TV, a tiki bar and a fully decorated
Christmas tree. ''We've kind of gone crazy wild with it,'' Mr. De Armond said.
The only creature comfort lacking is a bathroom -- Mr. De Armond still has to
shower at home.

He said a few people had taunted him, saying he should get a job, but he has one
as a press operator at The News-Press in Fort Myers. He leaves the holiday
encampment for work. (His team must have a member present 24 hours a day to hold
its place.)

The deals Mr. De Armond is aiming for seem almost an afterthought: He's going
for an iPad Air 2 for $399 (list price $499) and a Panasonic 50-inch LED TV for
$199 (list price $799.99). The iPad is a gift for one of his sons, and he plans
to donate the television to a local children's hospital for a fund-raising
raffle.

One reason he chose Best Buy, he said, is that the store hands out vouchers
shortly before the store opens, guaranteeing availability. That eliminates any
need for the kind of stampede that has put shoppers at risk of injury. ''At Best
Buy, there's no reason to fight over anything,'' Mr. De Armond said.

A Best Buy spokesman confirmed that chain employees would hand out tickets to
people in line starting about two hours before stores open. This weekend, the
chain is staging Black Friday simulations so employees can practice. ''We're
committed to the safety of our customers and employees,'' Jeff Shelman, the
spokesman, said.

Best Buy is also committed to the concept of Black Friday, and is featuring some
of its best deals -- like the iPad and Panasonic TV Mr. De Armond wants -- from
5 p.m. on Thursday to 1 a.m. on Friday. Stores will then close and reopen at 8
a.m. with a new set of deals.

While he didn't want to comment on Walmart's strategy, ''We have a lot of
customers who really like Black Friday and look forward to it.'' Mr. Shelman
said.

Still, like Walmart, Best Buy is also catering to shoppers whose idea of fun
isn't Thanksgiving dinner in a parking lot. Mr. Shelman said Best Buy would
feature some online deals even before Thanksgiving and would save some specials
for the following Monday, known as Cyber Monday. ''We'll be offering deals
throughout the period,'' he said.

For shoppers, the holiday retail landscape has become so competitive and
complicated that BlackFriday.com is offering an app that provides constant email
pricing updates as well as the lowest prices available for items on a customer's
wish list throughout the holiday season. ''There are going to be some great
deals heading into December,'' Ms. Martin said.

Thanks to higher employment rates and lower gas prices, many consumers have more
money to spend this year. But slow wage growth since the financial crisis has
kept them extremely price conscious -- an ideal environment for targeted
specials like those on Black Friday.

In a statement, Jack Kleinhenz, chief economist for the National Retail
Federation, said, ''Consumers are in a much better place than they were this
time last year,'' but ''shoppers will still be deliberate with their purchases,
while hunting for hard-to-pass-up bargains.'' The federation is predicting
healthy holiday sales growth of 4.1 percent, to $616.9 billion.

Mr. De Armond said he's enjoying himself so much that he'll be sorry when Black
Friday is over. But he doesn't have to wait long to relive the experience.
Season tickets for Red Sox spring training games, always much in demand, go on
sale at JetBlue Park in Fort Myers on Dec. 6.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/22/business/black-friday-campouts-as-traditional-
as-turkey.html

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Derek De Armond pitched his tent outside a Best Buy in Fort
Myers, Fla., at 10 a.m. on Nov. 11 at the head of a line that just keeps
growing.
Mr. De Armond, right, passed the time waiting with a friend, Alan Sliman, on
Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVE EDELHEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Above, the head of the line. Mr. De Armond and friends spend time at the tent in
shifts. He leaves to work as a press operator at The News-Press in Fort Myers.
Left, Mr. De Armond played dominoes with, from left, David, Felipe and Ruben
Valentin on Thursday. They're waiting for the store to open at 5 p.m. on
Thanksgiving Day. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY COREY PERRINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 EVE EDELHEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 26, 2014 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

When It Comes to Holiday Shopping, Not All Plastic Is Equal

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY ADVISER; Pg.

LENGTH: 742 words


Over the past year, so many data breaches at retail chains and restaurants have
come to light that it's hard to keep track. So what does that mean for shoppers,
as the holiday season gets underway?

Although it's unnerving to have any sort of card information stolen -- whether
by hackers or through an old-fashioned pilfered wallet -- consumer and security
experts say the fallout may be less damaging if shoppers avoid debit cards and
use credit cards instead.

''One of our biggest concerns is debit cards, because they're linked to your
checking account,'' said Richard K. Avery, president of the Northeast region for
Securitas Security Services.

With both credit and debit cards, consumers generally aren't liable for charges
made with stolen card numbers, as long as the problem is reported within 60
days, according to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.

But there could be more headaches with debit cards, because banks have 10
business days to investigate and credit funds to your account. In the meantime,
you may be short of money for any bills that come due. ''That's a long time to
wait,'' said Gail Hillebrand, the bureau's associate director for consumer
education and engagement.

And when your physical debit card is lost or stolen or your PIN is compromised,
you must notify the bank within two business days in order to limit your
liability to $50, the agency says. Otherwise, you could lose up to $500 -- or
even more, in the case of a lengthy delay in reporting a problem. In any case,
it's best to contact your bank promptly.

Credit cards also provide protection in case you are unhappy with goods or
services you purchased. You can dispute the charge and withhold payment while
the bank sorts things out with the merchant.

Nevertheless, many people expect to avoid using credit cards for holiday
shopping. A survey released on Nov. 19 by Bankrate.com found that just under a
quarter of those who planned to make in-store purchases on Black Friday -- the
day after Thanksgiving, which is traditional start of the holiday shopping
season -- said they were likely to use credit cards. In comparison, 34 percent
said they would use debit cards, and 38 percent planned to use cash.

Debt-averse younger shoppers, in particular, prefer debit cards, said Jeanine
Skowronski, an analyst with Bankrate. Just 11 percent of 18- to- 29-year-old
Black Friday shoppers said they would use a credit card for in-store purchases,
and more than half said they would use a debit card for online purchases on
Black Friday and the Monday after Thanksgiving, now called Cyber Monday.

The telephone survey of 1,000 adults was conducted for Bankrate by Princeton
Survey Research Associates International from Oct. 30 to Nov. 2. The margin of
sampling error is plus or minus four percentage points.

Here are some questions about keeping your finances safe while shopping:

â-  What if I prefer to use a credit card but am worried about overspending?

Ms. Skowronski says that you don't have to wait until you get your monthly
statement to make payments on your credit card; you can make a payment anytime,
whether by check or online. So you could simply shop with your credit card, then
pay off your purchases right away, to help stick to your budget and avoid
surprises when the bill arrives. Of course, to avoid interest charges, you
should pay your balance in full each month.

â-  Are some methods of payments more secure?

Over the next year, banks will increasingly issue ''chip'' credit and debit
cards to their customers. Such cards are more difficult to counterfeit are
expected to reduce fraud stemming from in-store payments. Apple Pay, the new
contactless payment system that pairs payment card information with the iPhone
6, is promoted as more secure because it creates a unique number for each
purchase rather than using your real card number. A drawback is that for now,
the number of retailers accepting chip cards and Apple Pay is relatively
limited.

â-  What about making online shopping safer?

Some credit cards offer virtual account numbers that act as a proxy for your
real credit card number when you shop online. If your card doesn't offer that
option, Mr. Avery of Securitas suggests that you restrict online shopping to one
credit card dedicated to online shopping. It's easier to track purchases that
way, and if the card is compromised and you cancel the account, you won't have
to worry about re-establishing automatic payments made with the card.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/26/your-money/when-it-comes-to-holiday-shopping-n
ot-all-plastic-is-equal.html

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 27, 2014 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Openings, Sales and Shopping Events in New York City

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SCOUTING REPORT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 432 words


Openings

­Beginning Black Friday, the South Street Seaport Holiday Pop-Up Shops will host
a new group of seasonal retailers. They include Whisper Editions, an online
retailer that collaborates with artists and designers on limited-edition works,
like a ''whisper'' clutch by Edie Parker and Fabian Baron ($1,400), and Brother
Vellies, the desert boot label that creates artisanal jobs in Africa. At 89
South Street. ­

On Tuesday, the French beauty brand Sisley will open a West Village boutique
with a spa cabine room for facials as well as a private makeup area for
special-occasion needs. In the spirit of the season, New York City influencers
including the Fivestory owner Claire Distenfeld have curated their own ''must
have'' product sets ($390 to $700), with 50 percent of proceeds going to each
woman's preferred charity. At 343 Bleecker Street.

­ Also open this week, the Derek Lam 10 Crosby store in SoHo carries the little
sister brand's ready-to-wear and accessories, including a new line of smart
handbags like the Mercer backpack ($695) and the Kenmare zippy clutch ($395),
named for downtown streets. At 115 Mercer Street. ­

And David Yurman has a new store in the neighborhood with an exclusive cable
bracelet in oxidized copper ($950), a reference to the distinctive patina of the
Statue of Liberty. At 114 Prince Street.

Sales

­Lining up for deals on iPhone 6s not really your thing? On Friday,­ Fivestory
will go to 30 percent markdowns on select pre-fall and fall merchandise. A
Balmain dress is $1,530 (from $2,550), and Alexander Wang ankle boots are
$542.50 (from $775). At 18 East 69th Street. ­

American Express will host a Small Business Saturday Night event to support
independent merchants in NoLIta, with deals like a 15 percent discount at Love
Adorned with mention of ''Small Business Saturday'' and free shaves at Fellow
Barber. See shopsmall.com for a list of participants.

Hitting the Racks

­On Friday, in celebration of the music and art label Ghostly International's
15th anniversary, Warby Parker is reissuing Curtis, the smooth-lined Ghostly
International x Warby Parker sunglasses style introduced last year, in the
sold-out revolver black as well as three new colors ($95). At 295 Lafayette
Street; warbyparker­.com. ­

Digital, meet analog. Cyber Monday is the deadline for all handwriting
embossings at the British leather accessories purveyor Anya Hindmarch across a
variety of bespoke items from keepsake boxes ($295 to $520) to document cases
($1,200) and dinner party seating charts ($650). At 95 Madison Avenue.

Send shopping suggestions to­ Browsing@nytimes.com

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/27/style/opening-sales-and-shopping-events-in-new
-york-city.html

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Dot Earth)

                           November 27, 2014 Thursday

Gratitude, Woodworking and Music on the Home Front on Thanksgiving

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 573 words



HIGHLIGHT: Fitting in some analog home time, and music, amid the digital flow of
work seeking a better planet.


[Video: A Hymn for the Hudson Highlands Watch on YouTube.]I spend a lot of time
analyzing global climate and energy trends, far-flung conservation efforts, work
aimed at improving prospects for the world's least fortunate and new
technologies with promising future applications, the latest being a novel
coating, described in Nature, that can in theory cool a building even on sunny
days. Much of this screen and road time takes me away from my family, students
and home.

So I'm grateful to be hunkered after the first snowfall since we moved into our
old brick housein Nelsonville, N.Y., in the Hudson Highlands that I treasure
(see my song above).

The kitchen is radiating turkey aromas, my younger son is sifting jazz offerings
on Pandora, siblings and parents are en route for dinner, along with the writer
and filmmakerLynne Cherry.

I plan to spend some analog time Friday in my workshop, building a hickory
sideboard to go with the dining table I built a few years ago out of field-sawn
hickory planks salvaged from a neighbor's barn.

As I urged on Twitter, I'm hoping folks will eschew Black Friday consumption
mania in favor of making things, when possible:

Nix #BlackFriday, try #MakeSomethingFriday. I'll make sideboard to go with 2010
hickory table: http://t.co/CT8zVVmbtY http://t.co/20oL21nyVu

- Andy Revkin (@Revkin)26 Nov 14

Finally, I plan to make some music this weekend. After focusing on producing my
first CD last year after two decades of songwriting and performing with Uncle
Wade, Breakneck Ridge Revue and Pete Seeger, I've had scant time for tunes of
late. Brewing book plans will further limit music making, but I'm determined to
wedge it in.

As a token of my gratitude for all I've learned from Dot Earth readers, I'm
cutting the price of my CD on Amazon.com to just above my costs from now through
the end of the year. (Read the Jambands review and a Consequence of Sound
feature on my music.) Help support independent music and buy it here. Here are
some musical thank-you notes to help you get a sense of my sound and songwriting
approach (I call it "simple music for complicated times").

In thanks to my wife, Lisa, for putting up with my quirks and intensity, here's
"Song for Lisa":[Video: "Song for Lisa," from "A Very Fine Line" Watch on
YouTube.]To the doctors who helped me through one of life's close calls, my
"lucky stroke" in 2011, here's "A Very Fine Line":[Video:  Watch on YouTube.]To
the friends and musical neighbors who make the Hudson Valley far more than a
pretty place, here's "Between the River and the Rails," my song about Guinan's,
a bygone waterfront pub (read more about this "Little Chapel on the River" in
Wendy Bounds's fine book):[Video:  Watch on YouTube.]Have a healthy happy
holiday stretch, from Thanksgiving into 2015.

And a final personal note of thanks and sadness. My community lost a remarkable
human being yesterday, Gordon Stewart. A onetime speechwriter for President
Jimmy Carter, he was best known for creating a successful independent local
online and printed newspaper to compete with another owned by Roger Ailes of Fox
News. But he was also a theater director, musician and conductor and all-around
public-minded mensch. As I wrote on the Philipstown.info site yesterday, "I can
only think of a handful - half a handful - of humans I've met with the breadth,
wit, intelligence, artistic spark, humor and public-minded spirit of Gordon. Too
soon gone."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (Wordplay)

                           November 27, 2014 Thursday

Time of Annual Madness

BYLINE: DEB AMLEN

SECTION: CROSSWORDS

LENGTH: 403 words



HIGHLIGHT: Tracy Gray reminds us of a revered American tradition.


 FRIDAY PUZZLE - So there I was, cruising along with an unusually successful
solving streak, when I ran into Tracy Gray's Friday puzzle and totally tanked.

I blame the rebuses, which, more often than not, trip me up. Or maybe it's
because I'm not much of a shopper. And who expects a themed puzzle on a Friday?
I'd place some of the blame on ROSALEE PARKS because I have never heard her
referred to by that name, but that seems uncharitable, to say the least. I did
learn about the 17th century joke about water being referred to as ADAM'S ALE
because that's all that Adam had to drink in the Garden of Eden. So there's
that.

O.K., enough blaming. This is a nifty Friday puzzle that has some really nice
fill in it, so please don't let my inability to see rebus entries stop you from
enjoying Ms. Gray's offering. I really did, despite my protestations above. When
I wasn't tanking.

Ms. Gray has placed four SALE rebus entries (eight if you're counting both
directions) in her grid. This is to remind us that today is BLACK FRIDAY, a
treasured American tradition wherein we wake from our turkey coma long enough to
trample our fellow man at Best Buy, in an attempt to show our gratitude for
deeply discounted Blu-ray players.

What I liked about Ms. Gray's puzzle, other than the four SALES and the tidy
BLACK FRIDAY revealer was the cleanliness of her grid and how she was able to
leave room for some nice longish entries. In particular, I liked HOT LICK, TESLA
COIL, ERIC CARLE and TEAKETTLE. Even the shorter entries are cool. I liked NO
I.D., BILBO, BICARB, OLD PRO and STYMIE.

The cluing on Ms. Gray's puzzle is pretty sharp, too. Clue(s) of the Day for me
were "Beginning to mature?" for PRE, "Ball opener?" for SKEE, and "Warm
greetings?" for ALOHAS.

Have a safe BLACK FRIDAY, everyone. Let's hear from Ms. Gray:

Constructor's Notes

Happy Day-After-Thanksgiving, everybody! Who doesn't like finding a sale or two
... or even four, especially on Black Friday? Hope you enjoy it!

The entry ABROAD at 60 Across may seem fairly mundane to you, but it reminded me
of a fabulous video series made by my friend Paula Froelich, editor in chief of
Yahoo! Travel, called "A Broad ABROAD." I watch these clips from her video
series as a way to travel vicariously through Ms. Froelich's adventures. Here
she is visiting an elephant sanctuary in Myanmar. I'm putting this on my bucket
list:

[Video:  Watch on YouTube.]

Your thoughts?

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2014 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Protect Yourself While Shopping for the Early Deals, and Beyond

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY ADVISER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 762 words


Over the past year, so many data breaches at retail chains and restaurants have
come to light that it's hard to keep track. So what does that mean for shoppers,
as the holiday season gets underway?

Although it's unnerving to have any sort of card information stolen -- whether
by hackers or through an old-fashioned pilfered wallet -- consumer and security
experts say the fallout may be less damaging if shoppers avoid debit cards and
use credit cards instead.

''One of our biggest concerns is debit cards, because they're linked to your
checking account,'' said Richard K. Avery, president of the Northeast region for
Securitas Security Services.

With both credit and debit cards, consumers generally aren't liable for charges
made with stolen card numbers, as long as the problem is reported within 60
days, according to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.

But there could be more headaches with debit cards, because banks have 10
business days to investigate and credit funds to your account. In the meantime,
you may be short of money for any bills that come due. ''That's a long time to
wait,'' said Gail Hillebrand, the bureau's associate director for consumer
education and engagement.

And when your physical debit card is lost or stolen or your PIN is compromised,
you must notify the bank within two business days in order to limit your
liability to $50, the agency says. Otherwise, you could lose up to $500 -- or
even more, in the case of a lengthy delay in reporting a problem. In any case,
it's best to contact your bank promptly.

Credit cards also provide protection in case you are unhappy with goods or
services you purchased. You can dispute the charge and withhold payment while
the bank sorts things out with the merchant.

Nevertheless, many people expect to avoid using credit cards for holiday
shopping. A survey released on Nov. 19 by Bankrate.com found that just under a
quarter of those who planned to make in-store purchases on Black Friday -- the
day after Thanksgiving, which is traditional start of the holiday shopping
season -- said they were likely to use credit cards. In comparison, 34 percent
said they would use debit cards, and 38 percent planned to use cash.

Debt-averse younger shoppers, in particular, prefer debit cards, said Jeanine
Skowronski, an analyst with Bankrate. Just 11 percent of 18- to- 29-year-old
Black Friday shoppers said they would use a credit card for in-store purchases,
and more than half said they would use a debit card for online purchases on
Black Friday and the Monday after Thanksgiving, now called Cyber Monday.

The telephone survey of 1,000 adults was conducted for Bankrate by Princeton
Survey Research Associates International from Oct. 30 to Nov. 2. The margin of
sampling error is plus or minus four percentage points.

Here are some questions about keeping your finances safe while shopping:

â-  What if I prefer to use a credit card but am worried about overspending?

Ms. Skowronski says that you don't have to wait until you get your monthly
statement to make payments on your credit card; you can make a payment anytime,
whether by check or online. So you could simply shop with your credit card, then
pay off your purchases right away, to help stick to your budget and avoid
surprises when the bill arrives. Of course, to avoid interest charges, you
should pay your balance in full each month.

â-  Are some methods of payments more secure?

Over the next year, banks will increasingly issue ''chip'' credit and debit
cards to their customers. Such cards are more difficult to counterfeit are
expected to reduce fraud stemming from in-store payments. Apple Pay, the new
contactless payment system that pairs payment card information with the iPhone
6, is promoted as more secure because it creates a unique number for each
purchase rather than using your real card number. A drawback is that for now,
the number of retailers accepting chip cards and Apple Pay is relatively
limited.

â-  What about making online shopping safer?

Some credit cards offer virtual account numbers that act as a proxy for your
real credit card number when you shop online. If your card doesn't offer that
option, Mr. Avery of Securitas suggests that you restrict online shopping to one
credit card dedicated to online shopping. It's easier to track purchases that
way, and if the card is compromised and you cancel the account, you won't have
to worry about re-establishing automatic payments made with the card.

Email: yourmoneyadviser @nytimes.com

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/26/your-money/when-it-comes-to-holiday-shopping-n
ot-all-plastic-is-equal.html

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 30, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Honoring Small Business, Obamas Go Book Shopping

BYLINE: By ELENA SCHNEIDER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 497 words


WASHINGTON -- President Obama, joined by his daughters, went shopping Saturday
at Politics and Prose, an independent bookstore in the capital, in what has
become a Thanksgiving weekend tradition for the first family to honor Small
Business Saturday -- an outing that mixed policy and purchases.

The president and his daughters, Sasha and Malia, browsed the shelves and
chatted with customers before buying two bags full of books at the store, where
they also shopped at this time last year. According to a White House print pool
report, Mr. Obama at one point held a patron's baby.

At the checkout counter, a cashier asked the president, ''You from out of
town?'' Mr. Obama replied, ''I am. Do I get a discount for that?'' Another
cashier jokingly offered a ''neighbor discount.''

''I'll take that,'' Mr. Obama said, in an exchange captured by a television pool
video posted by CBS News.

Mr. Obama spotted a new book behind the register, ''The Stranger: Barack Obama
in the White House,'' by Chuck Todd, host of NBC's ''Meet the Press.'' The
president noted that he looked ''lonely'' on the cover, and Malia asked, ''How
is he already writing a book?''

With a smile, Malia added that her father looked sad on the cover. ''Looks like
a sad book,'' she said teasingly, in a typical family exchange not often seen
from the Obamas in public.

One customer asked Mr. Obama about closing the military detention facility at
Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, and the president responded, ''We're working on it. Thank
you. Any other issues?''

The Obamas bought 17 books, including several intended for children, among them
titles from the ''Redwall'' fantasy series by Brian Jacques and the ''Junie B.
Jones'' series by Barbara Park. The memoir ''Brown Girl Dreaming'' by Jacqueline
Woodson was also selected.

One classic made the list, ''Heart of Darkness,'' by Joseph Conrad, and a few
contemporary releases, like ''All the Light We Cannot See'' by Anthony Doerr,
''Nora Webster'' by Colm Toibin and ''The Laughing Monsters'' by Denis Johnson.
They bought two nonfiction titles: ''Age of Ambition: Chasing Fortune, Truth and
Faith in the New China'' by Evan Osnos and ''Being Mortal: Medicine and What
Matters in the End'' by Dr. Atul Gawande. Also among the Obamas' purchases were
''Cartwheeling in Thunderstorms'' by Katherine Rundell and ''The Narrow Road to
the Deep North'' by Richard Flanagan.

Mr. Obama said that some of the purchases would be Christmas presents, but did
not specify which titles were gifts. Introduced in 2010, Small Business Saturday
encourages shoppers to support local, independent stores, even as corporate
retailers push for big spending on Black Friday and Cyber Monday.

On Saturday, the White House posted a quote from Mr. Obama on Twitter: ''As we
mark #SmallBusinessSaturday, let us continue to encourage the entrepreneurial
spirit wherever we find it.''

After the cashier rang up his purchases, Mr. Obama handed over a credit card.
''Hope it works,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/30/us/honoring-small-business-obamas-go-book-shop
ping.html

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 1, 2014 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Holiday Weekend Sales Slide, Despite Bargains

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI; Kimiya Shokoohi contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words


Have Americans finally had enough of Black Friday madness?

Sales, both in stores and online, from Thanksgiving through the weekend were
estimated to have dropped 11 percent, to $50.9 billion, from $57.4 billion last
year, according to preliminary survey results released Sunday by the National
Retail Federation. Sales fell despite many stores' opening earlier than ever on
Thanksgiving Day.

And though many retailers offered the same aggressive discounts online as they
did in their stores, the web failed to attract more shoppers or spending over
the four-day holiday weekend than it did last year, the group said. The average
person who shopped over the weekend spent $159.55 at online retailers, down 10.2
percent from last year.

Over all, 133.7 million people shopped or planned to shop at stores or online
over the four-day weekend, 5.2 percent fewer than last year, the federation
said. And shoppers spent an average of $380.95 over the four days, 6.4 percent
less than the $407.02 they spent last year.

Executives at the retail federation, which had predicted strong growth in sales
this holiday season, appeared at a loss to fully explain the drop-off.

The results could show that ''there are a significant number of Americans out
there for whom the recession is not yet over,'' said Matthew Shay, the group's
president and chief executive.

At the same time, those who did feel more flush, thanks to lower fuel prices and
brightening job prospects, might not have felt the need to hunt down the
rock-bottom Black Friday deals, he said.

Black Friday itself may be waning in importance, as retailers increasingly offer
deep discounts days, and even weeks, before the traditional year-end sales
period. That means many people may have simply done their shopping earlier and
stayed home during the Thanksgiving weekend.

But even there, the picture was not clear: Mr. Shay said that people also might
be holding out for even better deals as the season progressed. He said that the
continuous sales had conditioned consumers to expect better deals the longer
they waited.

The retail federation still stuck to its rosy estimate for the entire holiday
season. Its economists expect sales in November and December -- excluding those
for autos, gas and restaurants -- to grow 4.1 percent to $616.9 billion, a
faster pace than the 3.1 percent increase last year.

But the early numbers point to a grueling struggle for year-end sales among the
nation's retailers, Mr. Shay acknowledged.

''It's going to be a dogfight for the entire season every day, every minute,''
he said. ''Holiday sales are now a marathon, not a sprint.''

Over the weekend, shoppers across the country had noted unremarkable crowds.

''Back in the day, there used to be a lot of people,'' said Joyce Hudson, 54,
one of several shoppers at a Kmart in Los Angeles who wandered the aisles at a
pace seemingly no different from any other shopping day. Kmart's Black Friday
sales began Thursday evening and the store stayed opened throughout the night.

Mrs. Hudson, shopping with her daughter, bought diamond earrings and several
gold and silver necklaces, spending a total of $450, at deep discounts off the
suggested retail prices.

''This year is really slow, there's a big difference from even last year,'' said
a Kmart customer service manager, Indira Reyna, 44, who said she had worked the
day after Thanksgiving for most of her 13 years on the job. ''It's never been
this slow. We still have all these deals.''

Ken Perkins, the founder of Retail Metrics, an industry research company, said
Black Friday was increasingly a thing of the past.

''The Black Friday hype has come and mostly gone,'' he said, thanks to
''significant changes to the way consumers shopped, retailers promoted and the
general importance of the day itself.''

He warned against basing forecasts for the entire holiday season on Black
Friday. But he added that the weak results could pressure retailers to cut their
prices even more aggressively, which could hurt their bottom lines. He said
discounts reaching 50 to 70 percent were becoming the norm.

''These deeper discounts are an absolutely necessary entry cost to get consumers
into stores and onto websites,'' Mr. Perkins said. ''Deep discounts make it more
difficult, however, to generate robust sales growth as more unit sales are
required to make up for steep price cuts.''

During this weak showing, Walmart came out ''the undisputed leader'' in terms of
traffic, where lines were deep at all registers and parking lots were
overflowing, Mr. Perkins said. Best Buy, Target, Old Navy and Kohl's were also
busy Thanksgiving night, he said. Walmart and Target also said their online
sales surged over the holiday period, albeit from relatively low levels.

The sales period was a ''lost weekend'' in particular for apparel, said Craig
Johnson, president of the consultancy Customer Growth Partners. Shoppers
increasingly captivated by technology like smartphones and smart TVs were
spending less on jeans and jackets, he said.

Consumers appeared to shun apparel ''unless it was at fire-sale prices, which it
often was,'' Mr. Johnson said.

A brighter spot over the weekend appeared to be consumer electronics. The
Consumer Electronics Association said about 45 percent of shoppers bought
electronics, more than in any of the last three years.

Among electronics, televisions were the surprise winner, helped by big deals on
larger models and even the latest ''4K'' ultrahigh-definition models. Surveys
showed that TVs were the most sought item over the four days, beating
smartphones and even tablets, which some forecasters had billed as the season's
hot item. High-end headphones, a favorite last year, did not do as well, perhaps
because so many people already own them.

The association's figures also suggested that over all, both shoppers and
spending were down over the holiday weekend. It estimated that 113.2 million
adults shopped or planned to shop over a five-day period that includes
Thanksgiving, Black Friday, the weekend and so-called Cyber Monday, when many
retailers offer further deals online.

Shawn DuBravac, the electronics industry group's chief economist, also said
deals earlier on had eaten into sales over the holiday weekend. He said that the
deeper discounting could have translated into lower sales over all.

Mr. DuBravac, however, had a potential solution to revive flagging sales in the
United States: Borrow a tradition from China.

''Nov. 11, Singles Day. It's the biggest online sales day globally,'' Mr.
DuBravac said.

He was referring to the Chinese shopping tradition that began as a day on which
China's unmarried people shopped away their loneliness. But Singles Day is now a
full-blown event with big promotions and marketing by companies like Alibaba,
the Chinese e-commerce giant.

This year, Alibaba said that it had transactions on the unofficial holiday of
$9.3 billion.

''You're already seeing those who have connections to China in the U.S. buying
things for their families,'' Mr. DuBravac said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/01/business/thanksgiving-weekend-sales-at-stores-
and-online-slide-11-percent.html

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers in Herald Square on Black Friday. Some analysts
wondered if the day's shopping had been diluted by sales even earlier.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW BURTON/GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (On the Runway)

                            December 1, 2014 Monday

Patagonia Bucks the Black Friday Trend

BYLINE: VANESSA FRIEDMAN

SECTION: FASHION

LENGTH: 491 words



HIGHLIGHT: If you missed the sportswear brand&#8217;s swap events, use the new
app instead.


Amid the four-day shopping extravaganza that is the Black Friday-Small Business
Saturday-anyone have a name for Sunday? continuum that culminates in Cyber
Monday, one brand has stuck out in my mind for its somewhat-alternative
approach: Patagonia.

Last year, in accordance with its position as one of the more eco-activist
companies on the spectrum, it began urging customers not to buy, but to swap. Or
rather, not to acquire more without divesting some.

This year, however, it upped the ante by using its venture capital fund, $20
Million and Change, which was unveiled last year, to make an investment in
Yerdle, a company that has applied a sharing economy to items, and created a
swapping app.

It's fairly simple: Post something you don't use, earn Yerdle credits and use
those credits to buy something someone else has posted. In Patagonia's case, it
meant that whomever could not make it to the brand's Black Friday "Worn Wear"
swap - bring in old, no-longer-used Patagonia and trade for someone else's
less-used Patagonia, held in eight major markets such as Boston, New York and
San Francisco - could still take part in the exchange.

Also, in case you missed the Black Friday hoo-ha because you, like me, were
hiding from the voracious hordes in your house, you can still get the experience
through the app.

It's an interesting idea: Clearly, no matter how genuinely eco-aware and
committed you are, you can't fight the consumer tide, which has everyone
salivating at the chance for a deal, but you can prevent the waste that comes
with too much stuff.

Here's how a Patagonia spokesman explained it: "At the end of the day, extending
the life of clothing already in circulation does more to lower our environmental
footprint than anything we can do to improve how we make new stuff. Our 'Worn
Wear' program is about inspiring our customers to celebrate the unique character
their gear has accumulated through extended use and repair - and then giving
them tools to extend its life when they no longer need it. We want customers to
start seeing those items as better than new. We're excited to invest in Yerdle
and partner with their innovative team to help get items that are no longer
being used into the hands of people who will put them back into action."

Though on the surface this kind of initiative may seem counterintuitive - Isn't
it in Patagonia's interest to urge people to buy more? - my guess is the good
will and positive word of mouth generated by appearing NOT to drink the consumer
Kool-Aid may actually pay off in the end. It also demonstrates a faith in the
longevity of the company's own products that is the opposite of fast fashion. It
is the Hermès of sports lifestyle! And the idea puts them in pole position for
any Black Friday backlash.

It is, in other words, like the venture capital fund, a long-term investment in
a consumer base. Something to think about, perhaps, for both buyers and brands
in this gift-giving season.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (First Draft)

                            December 1, 2014 Monday

Today in Politics

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1536 words



HIGHLIGHT: Unfinished business will make December a busy month.


Congress Returns to Packed Agenda, With Immigration at Top of List

Good Monday morning on this first day of December from Washington, where
President Obama has a day of meetings on the crisis in Ferguson, Mo.;
Senator-elect Thom Tillis has some advice to fellow Republicans; and Mr. Obama's
immigration plan is No. 1 on congressional Republicans' to-do list as they
return to town. In New Jersey, a by-the-numbers look shows that Gov. Chris
Christie's pig policy should play well in Iowa.

Congress is back on Monday for the first time since Mr. Obama announced his new
immigration policy, and Republicans will spend the week coming up with a
response.

Party leaders continue to argue against a government shutdown to stop the
president's measures and to advocate alternatives, like blocking his
nominations, keeping immigration agencies on a short financial leash or firing
back with legislation of their own.

There is plenty of other unfinished business for Congress, including the need to
secure government financing past Dec. 11. (Spending talks will continue this
week.) Lawmakers must also decide what to do about a series of expiring business
and personal tax breaks. A tentative agreement between Senate Democratic leaders
and House Republicans ran into a buzz saw of opposition from the White House and
other Democrats.

Negotiators also hope to advance a major Pentagon policy bill. (Congress has
managed to complete one every year for more than 50 years.) It will be the last
such measure for Senator Carl Levin, the retiring Michigan Democrat who is
chairman of the Armed Services Committee. His colleagues will be reluctant to
let the streak end as his Senate career comes to a close.

Another item on the agenda: professional athletes' bad behavior. The Senate
Commerce Committee has summoned representatives of various sports leagues for a
hearing on Tuesday about players who commit domestic violence. The issue was
back in the news last week when a judge reinstated Ray Rice, the former
Baltimore Ravens star who was caught on video knocking the woman who is now his
wife unconscious in an elevator. That is certain to be part of the discussion.

- Carl Hulse

For Obama, a Trip to Ferguson Isn't as Simple as Getting on a Plane

There is still no visit to Ferguson, Mo., on President Obama's schedule, but his
day will be dominated by discussions of the unrest there.

First, he and his cabinet are to discuss the federal programs that finance
military-style equipment for state and local law enforcement agencies. The
programs drew scrutiny and criticism after Ferguson police officers confronted
protesters with assault-style vehicles and weapons after Michael Brown's
shooting death in August.

He is also meeting with civil rights leaders in the Oval Office to discuss
issues including "mistrust between law enforcement and communities of color."
And in a separate meeting, he will talk with local elected officials, law
enforcement officers and religious leaders about how to build community trust.

The list of meetings, released Sunday night, followed a weekend of rumors that
the president was planning a trip to Ferguson - perhaps this week - after a
grand jury's decision not to indict Officer Darren Wilson in Mr. Brown's death
prompted unrest.

Presidents tread a fine line in deciding when to visit a crisis zone and how to
conduct themselves when they get there, and Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts,
the president's friend and political ally, had a theory on Sunday about why the
decision had been so difficult for Mr. Obama.

"I think he wants to go," Mr. Patrick said on the NBC News program "Meet the
Press." "I think he'd like to be there to comfort the family of Michael Brown,
who are having to relive this tragedy all over again, and to reassure both
community at large and the community of law enforcement."

"The president," he said, "is in a really, really tough place, trying to be, and
having been elected to serve as president of the whole country, and having
higher expectations on issues related to race."

- Brian Knowlton and Julie Hirschfeld Davis

Christie and Pigs, New Jersey and Iowa: A Tutorial, by the Numbers

9: Number of states that have banned gestation crates for pregnant pigs on the
theory, championed by animal rights activists, that they inhumanely restrict a
pregnant pig's movement.

2: Number of times Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey has vetoed a bill that
would have banned the use of such crates. In doing so on Friday, he denounced
the measure as "a solution in search of a problem" and as "a political movement
masquerading as substantive policy." (It had overwhelmingly passed both houses
of New Jersey's Legislature.)

300: Roughly the number of pig farmers in New Jersey, which is to say: not many.
See next item.

6,300: The number of farms in Iowa that raise pigs.

$6.5 billion: The Iowa hog industry's value last year, according to the Iowa
Pork Producers Association. Hog industry groups aggressively lobbied Mr.
Christie to veto the cage bill, as did Iowa's governor, Terry E. Branstad, a
Christie ally whose endorsement will be among the most coveted in 2016. New
Jersey, Mr. Branstad said, "doesn't know anything about raising pigs."

1: Iowa's place in the presidential nominating process.

4: Number of times Mr. Christie has visited Iowa in the past year.

- Michael Barbaro

Senator-Elect Advises Republicans to Cut Short Their Victory Laps

Election winners typically like to celebrate their triumphs as a ringing
endorsement of their agenda. So it was a bit of a surprise on Sunday to hear
Thom Tillis, the Republican senator-elect from North Carolina, say on the CBS
News program "Face the Nation" that his party should not misinterpret last
month's election victories.

"I think that the American people did not give Republicans a mandate," said Mr.
Tillis, who has been speaker of the North Carolina House. "They gave us a
chance. They gave us a chance to lead, and I'm glad to be a part of that."

Mr. Tillis said that Republicans must get things done in Washington, work across
the aisle and focus on the economy and national security. If they don't, he
seemed to suggest, the voters next time might decide to give the Democrats
another shot at majority rule.

- Carl Hulse

What We're Watching Today

The United States Supreme Court will hear a Pennsylvania man's challenge of his
federal conviction on charges that Facebook posts amounted to a criminal threat
against his wife.

Hillary Rodham Clinton speaks at the League of Conservation Voters annual dinner
in New York.

The United States Public Interest Research Group releases its 29th-annual list
of dangerous toys. (Rescheduled from last week.)

Chairman Working to Plug Leaks in Republican Study Committee

Speaker John A. Boehner's standing with his Republican colleagues is the subject
of a New York Times article on Monday, and it notes that his relationship with
his most conservative members is likely to improve.

The Republican Study Committee, which represents the House Republicans' most
conservative wing, has often been a thorn in the speaker's side, its members
serving as go-to sources for reporters looking to showcase party divisions.

But Representative Bill Flores, a Texan who will now be leading the group, said
that wasn't his style. Mr. Flores, a longtime energy industry executive, noted
that he had successfully hashed out plenty of business deals, and hadn't done it
by going public with complaints.

"I didn't win those negotiations by issuing bitter press releases or making
incendiary comments," Mr. Flores said in an interview. "I don't see a need to
air grievances in public."

Sounds like Hill reporters might need to go to another go-to source.

- Carl Hulse

Our Favorites From Today's Times

John A. Boehner's third term as speaker holds both promise and peril.

Optimism surrounds the climate talks opening this week in Lima, Peru, but the
realities of rising temperatures remain grave.

Black Friday bargains notwithstanding, holiday weekend sales were down 11
percent. Will Cyber Monday's results be any better?

The Supreme Court will take up a case this week that seeks to protect pregnant
women from job discrimination.

Swiss voters reject a proposal to limit immigration.

What We're Reading Elsewhere

The New Yorker says Mia Love, the first black woman to be elected to the House
as a Republican, occupies an "unusual place on the American political
landscape."

Twenty-six Republicans in the new Congress are from districts that President
Obama won in 2012. Politico says you might call them "Obama Republicans."

Jay Michaelson, writing in The Daily Beast, says evangelical Christians are not
reaping any benefits from their alliance with the Republican Party.

The Times-Picayune in New Orleans notes a surge in the number of Republicans
casting early ballots in the runoff between Senator Mary L. Landrieu and her
Republican opponent, Representative Bill Cassidy.

The Daily Kos assembles an exceptionally early list of the Democratic Party's
congressional targets in 2016.

Former Gov. Mario Cuomo of New York - the father of the state's current governor
- is still in the hospital being treated for a heart condition.

Like this? Get First Draft delivered to your inbox

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Times Insider)

                            December 1, 2014 Monday

The Secret Life of Passwords: Reporter's Notebook

BYLINE: IAN URBINA

LENGTH: 804 words



HIGHLIGHT: Ian Urbina describes how he reported his Times Magazine story,
&#8220;The Secret Life of Passwords.&#8221;


 Ian Urbina wrote an article about the secret life of passwords for the Nov. 23
Times Magazine. Interactive videos accompanied the piece, and The Times invited
readers to share stories about their passwords. Here, Mr. Urbina provides a
sense of the story behind the story.

The idea for this story bubbled up about five years ago. I always suspected that
while there was much to hate about passwords, there was also another side to
them - something hidden inside these codes, not just behind them.

It seemed to me that within the collection of passwords that most of us carry
around there is a subspecies of meaning.

What looked like the exact wrong moment to ask strangers about such a private
topic often proved most fruitful. Making small talk in a dentist's waiting room,
riding the Acela, filling the lull during Thanksgiving dinner with in-laws  -
people readily opened up partly because I caught them off guard.

In discussing their cyber-mnemonics, people told me that they felt a catharsis
of sorts. With so much information flowing over us, so many gadgets to tame, so
many passwords to manage, renew and not write down, the topic seemed to soothe
the ire.

These passwords were like clown cars. Open the door and an impossible amount
came spilling out. A man wrote to me that he was confused as to why he used for
his password the name of a summer camp where he was sexually abused as a boy.
Another explained how his password was tied to the model of his first handgun.
Others told me their passwords were the name of a family dog who was killed by
an errant driver, the brand of a drum set lost when a childhood home burned down
and the name of a chemistry teacher who inspired a career.

Gathering all of the information was a slow process. Many people were willing to
tell me their stories by email. But just as many insisted on discussing them
only by phone or in person.

I always tried to convert subjects into helpers. Clever people, left-brain
types, tend to travel in packs. So any time I found good subjects, I asked if
they would forward an email query from me to their friends. For higher altitude,
I turned to academics situated at the intersection of anthropology, technology
and psychology.

Somewhere along the way, I heard from a hacker friend of mine who used to work
at Microsoft. He told me about what the financial-services firm Cantor
Fitzgerald went through shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks. He described how,
not but hours after the planes struck, Howard Lutnick, the chief executive of
that company, had to call the families of the dead and ever so gently collect
from them personal trivia about their missing loved ones in order to help a team
of Microsoft technicians hack the passwords of dozens of the firm's most
important accounts. My friend said I could not attribute the anecdote to him. So
I called Mr. Lutnick directly. He cried while recounting the experience during
an hourlong conversation.

Throughout the reporting process, I found myself intrigued by broader questions
about whether there might actually be a certain deeper logic to the
irrationality, patterns in the misbehavior or a reason that we so often do what
the experts say not to. But the vignettes that people offered were the truly
addictive element. Before long I had more than I could fit in my story.

I eventually shared a version of the story with my colleague, Leslye Davis, a
Times video reporter. She liked it and began working on the amazing multimedia
presentation that resulted. The finished product by Ms. Davis (and her editor,
Nancy Donaldson) was an unusual wedding of form and function. It served as an
ideal complement to the written article. The double exposure silhouettes
mimicked the mix of anonymity and intimacy that I found in passwords. Animating
the silhouettes with a combination of colorful textures and concrete images
conveyed a central point of the article: that people are essentially carriers of
stories, that passwords are secretly packed with keepsake emotions.

Once the visuals and the story were ready, Josh Williams, a graphics editor, and
Rumsey Taylor, a web designer, had to make it all fit together in a way that
readers could experience in a new way. They wanted to make the visuals bigger
and yet more integrated with the words, rather than just some small appendage to
them. Oh, and they had about a week to do it.

There was something oddly affirming in reporting this topic. It felt like a rare
opportunity to explore how humans are creative and sentimental creatures, how we
invent quirky routines and clever contraptions for everyday life, how we
beautify even our shackles. And since the story ran, the delight of it all has
continued. A dozen or so readers per week, from the farthest corners (Qatar,
Ireland, Brazil, Norway), have been emailing me their keepsake stories.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 2, 2014 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

China's Tough-Minded Web Keeper

BYLINE: By PAUL MOZUR and JANE PERLEZ; Paul Mozur reported from Hong Kong, and
Jane Perlez from Beijing.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1607 words


HONG KONG -- When a major Chinese-American Internet conference convenes in
Washington on Tuesday, a middle-aged Communist Party propaganda chief will be
seated amid a room full of tech industry executives, American officials and web
luminaries.

The chief, Lu Wei, might look like the odd man out, but he is certain to command
attention. As China's new Internet czar, he is the doorkeeper for American
Internet companies to the lucrative China market, as well as the ambassador of
an assertive new policy in which China claims the right to block websites,
censor content and track users within its borders.

For the Americans, it may present a tricky balancing act, but for Mr. Lu, it is
his moment, and one those who know him expect that he will take full advantage
of.

Given to making stolid, jargon-laden speeches, Mr. Lu, 54, could not be more
different from the new generation of businessmen who built the cyberspace sector
he oversees, and with whom he has come into frequent combat.

But in his rise to become China's Internet custodian, he has demonstrated a
canny awareness of the power of the Internet and social media, while also
proving adept at the far older art of manipulating public opinion to benefit the
party.

Since taking over the State Internet Information Office in 2013 and becoming the
director of a powerful Internet committee headed by President Xi Jinping last
May, he has tightened restrictions in what is already the world's most
sophisticated system of online censorship.

He has curbed the country's freewheeling social media pioneers by issuing stern
warnings in private meetings and severely restricting the accounts of some in a
campaign that led to the detention of one online celebrity. On his watch, the
government increased blocks on foreign websites and issued new regulations to
restrict sharing on social media and increase censorship of popular online video
sites.

He unapologetically defended China's need for stronger Internet controls at a
trade conference in London in June, and at an October news conference in
Beijing, he made it plain that an unfettered Facebook could not expect to
operate in China.

''I didn't say Facebook could not enter China, but nor did I say that it
could,'' he said. ''Foreign Internet companies can come to China if they abide
by the law. We could not allow any companies to enter China's market and make
money while hurting the country.''

His style -- loud, direct and gregarious -- was on display last month when he
presided over China's first World Internet Conference, a gathering of Chinese
politicians, top Chinese Internet company chiefs and executives from many major
Western tech companies.

He smoked cigars with a Cuban telecom official, power-walked in sweats for
exercise at the conference site in the whitewashed canal village of Wuzhen and
canceled a presentation to dash off to greet Premier Li Keqiang in the nearby
town of Hangzhou.

''He pitched his tent and was trying to get everyone to come in,'' said one
person who has met with Mr. Lu.

''He's very confident and very definitely a politician,'' said the person, who
declined to be identified because his meetings with Mr. Lu were confidential.
''He's a smoker, he drinks, he's up late, he's up early, he's a workaholic. He's
like a ringmaster, trying to be at the center of everything and juggling a
million things at once, and he's pretty good at it.''

He also delivered a message those at the U.S.-China Internet Industry Forum in
Washington can expect to hear this week. He called repeatedly for ''respect of
national sovereignty'' on the Internet, arguing that nations should be left to
regulate cyberspace within their borders as they see fit.

This position clashes with those advocated by human rights groups, which claim
free online expression as a basic right, and business interest groups, which
call for equal market access for Internet and technology companies.

Mr. Lu spent his early career as bureau chief of the state-run Xinhua News
Agency in southern Guangxi Province, a position where his flair for showmanship
caught the eye of the Beijing headquarters, not least because he made sure that
an official car drove to the steps of the plane when an out-of-town boss
arrived.

He ascended the ranks to become secretary general and vice president at the
agency's headquarters, and in 2011 was promoted to vice mayor of Beijing and
chief of the capital's propaganda department.

There he began to expound his views on the Internet. In a July 2010 essay in
Seeking Truth, a party philosophy journal, he argued that China should bolster
its control over the way information is disseminated internationally in new
technologies, like the Internet.

After explaining how ''phony or distorted information can mislead capital and
disrupt markets,'' he added: ''Without information security, there is no
financial security, there's no economic security and there's no national
security in the truest sense.''

The essay helped identify what for the Chinese leadership would become a
metastasizing fear: the potential of social media to destabilize governments.
Later that year, the Arab Spring provided concrete examples.

In 2011, the spread of reports about a high-speed rail crash in Wenzhou, China,
showed how Chinese social networks could evade the country's censorship regime.
Then in 2013, leaks by the former National Security Agency contractor Edward J.
Snowden about United States government surveillance showed how vulnerable
countries like China were to cyber-snooping.

Last year, while still in the Beijing government, he exhorted the city's 60,000
propaganda officials to make better use of social media, like the Weibo
microblog platform. ''Watch Weibo, open a Weibo account, send Weibo messages,
study Weibo,'' he said, according to Xinhua.

''Lu Wei was the right man, at the right position, at the right moment,'' said
Rogier Creemers, a research scholar at Oxford. "The traditional guard that ran
the propaganda department were slightly too hidebound. The idea was they needed
clever people who knew what they were talking about. Suddenly someone makes a
public stand that shows he understands the Internet and social media as well as
its international expansion.''

When he took over the State Internet Information Office, one of Mr. Lu's first
challenges was reining in China's freewheeling social media. He held a series of
well-publicized dinners at fancy Beijing restaurants with some of China's most
well-known social media icons. Known as the Big V's, for verified account, some
had millions of online followers and had already shown how they could turn
sensitive subjects -- like forced relocations and environmental problems -- into
national debates that upset the Communist Party.

He warned them to take responsibility for their actions, and later, on national
television, he instructed eight prominent bloggers in blunt terms to be more
positive.

One well known online personality, the American businessman Charles Xue, was
later detained for eight months on prostitution charges, though a torrent of
official media reports left little doubt the government's anger at Mr. Xue was
based on his online writings.

Mr. Lu purged some of the Big V's by closing down or limiting the functions of
their accounts, and he made the threat of further consequences apparent to
others at the dinners he hosted.

Last year, analysts say, he masterminded a Chinese Supreme Court decision that
limits to 500 the number of times a post can be reposted without the original
author's assuming legal responsibility. Because spreading false rumors is a
crime, the decision means that anyone who writes a popular but subversive post
could be held liable and face prison time.

Such measures drew the attention of the Chinese president, analysts say, who
rewarded him with the job of director of the new Central Internet Security and
Informatization Leading Group, a group headed by the president and charged with
strengthening Internet controls, enhancing protection against foreign
cyberattacks and developing new technologies.

The group is expected to produce a policy document, the analysts said, that will
seek to strike a balance between what the government views as a need to further
censor domestic social media and block foreign sites, while allowing enough
openness for the economy to grow.

Mr. Lu, who did not respond to a fax to his office seeking comment for this
article, now has his sights on something bigger: gaining a substantial say for
China in international oversight of the web. His conference in Wuzhen was
largely about that, and he is likely to dwell on it in Washington.

The conference, however, also suggested the limits of his approach when he has
to depend on diplomacy and not the heavy hand of government.

Late on the last evening, a draft declaration calling for respect for Internet
sovereignty was slipped under the doors of participants. In what appeared to be
an attempt to rush through a last-minute approval, the document said any
feedback and revisions should be submitted by 8 a.m.

In a closed-door meeting the next day, when several Western representatives
protested, Mr. Lu insisted that some attendees agreed to the document and
therefore it could be considered a consensus, according to a person who attended
the meeting, who did not want to be identified because it was confidential.

After further debate without agreement, Mr. Lu showed some of the pugnacity he
is known for. He refused to compromise, leaving the conference without the
closing declaration he wanted.

''It was a tense meeting,'' the person said. ''He got up and walked out. He said
he had other meetings he had to be in.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/02/world/asia/gregarious-and-direct-chinas-web-do
orkeeper.html

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lu Wei, Beijing's Internet czar, will attend a Chinese-American
web forum that starts on Tuesday in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHANNES
EISELE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 Lu Wei, at a conference in Wuzhen, China, last month, presides over the world's
most sophisticated system of online censorship. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY
LEUNG/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            December 2, 2014 Tuesday

Hacked vs. Hackers: Game On

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 2101 words



HIGHLIGHT: There has been an awakening that online threats are real and growing
worse, and that the prevailing &#8220;patch and pray&#8221; approach to computer
security will not do.


SAN FRANCISCO - Paul Kocher, one of the country's leading cryptographers, says
he thinks the explanation for the world's dismal state of digital security may
lie in two charts.

One shows the number of airplane deaths per miles flown, which decreased to
one-thousandth of what it was in 1945 with the advent of the Federal Aviation
Administration in 1958 and stricter security and maintenance protocols. The
other, which details the number of new computer security threats, shows the
opposite. There has been more than a 10,000-fold increase in the number of new
digital threats over the last 12 years.

The problem, Mr. Kocher and security experts reason, is a lack of liability and
urgency. The Internet is still largely held together with Band-Aid fixes.
Computer security is not well regulated, even as enormous amounts of private,
medical and financial data and the nation's computerized critical infrastructure
- oil pipelines, railroad tracks, water treatment facilities and the power grid
- move online.

If a stunning number of airplanes in the United States crashed tomorrow, there
would be investigations, lawsuits and a cutback in air travel, and the airlines'
stock prices would most likely plummet. That has not been true for hacking
attacks, which surged 62 percent last year, according to the security company
Symantec. As for long-term consequences, Home Depot, which suffered the worst
security breach of any retailer in history this year, has seen its stock float
to a high point.

In a speech two years ago, Leon E. Panetta, the former defense secretary,
predicted it would take a "cyber-Pearl Harbor" - a crippling attack that would
cause physical destruction and loss of life - to wake up the nation to the
vulnerabilities in its computer systems.

No such attack has occurred. Nonetheless, at every level, there has been an
awakening that the threats are real and growing worse, and that the prevailing
"patch and pray" approach to computer security simply will not do.

So what happened?

The Wake-Up Call

A bleak recap: In the last two years, breaches have hit the White House, the
State Department, the top federal intelligence agency, the largest American
bank, the top hospital operator, energy companies, retailers and even the Postal
Service. In nearly every case, by the time the victims noticed that hackers were
inside their systems, their most sensitive government secrets, trade secrets and
customer data had already left the building. And in just the last week Sony
Pictures Entertainment had to take computer systems offline because of an
aggressive attack on its network.

The impact on consumers has been vast. Last year, over 552 million people had
their identities stolen, according to Symantec, and nearly 25,000 Americans had
sensitive health information compromised - every day - according to the
Department of Health and Human Services. Over half of Americans, including
President Obama, had to have their credit cards replaced at least once because
of a breach, according to the Ponemon Group, an independent research
organization.

Graphic: 18 Months of Breaches, Flaws and Revelations

But the value of those stolen credit cards, which trade freely in underground
criminal markets, is eclipsed by the value of the intellectual property that has
been siphoned out of United States corporations, universities and research
groups by hackers in China - so much so that security experts now say there are
only two types of companies left in the United States: those that have been
hacked and those that do not yet know they have been hacked.

And this year, American companies learned it was not just Beijing they were up
against. Thanks to revelations by the former intelligence agency contractor
Edward J. Snowden, companies worry about protecting their networks from their
own government. If the tech sector cannot persuade foreign customers that their
data is safe from the National Security Agency, the tech industry analysis firm
Forrester Research predicts that America's cloud computing industry stands to
lose $180 billion - a quarter of its current revenue - over the next two years
to competitors abroad.

"People are finally realizing that we have a problem that most had not thought
about before," said Peter G. Neumann, a computer security pioneer at SRI
International, the Silicon Valley engineering research laboratory. "We may have
finally reached a crossroads."

Is There a Playbook?

Only certain kinds of companies, like hospitals and banks, are held up to
scrutiny by government regulators when they are hacked. And legal liability
hasn't been established in the courts, though Target faces dozens of lawsuits
related to a hack of that company's computer network a little over a year ago.

But if there is a silver lining to the current predicament, Mr. Neumann and
other security experts say, it is that computer security, long an afterthought,
has been forced into the national consciousness.

Customers, particularly those abroad, are demanding greater privacy protections.
Corporations are elevating security experts to senior roles and increasing their
budgets. At Facebook, the former mantra "move fast and break things" has been
replaced. It is now "move slowly and fix things." Companies in various sectors
have started informal information-sharing groups for computer security. And
President Obama recently called on Congress to pass a national data breach law
to provide "one clear national standard" rather than the current patchwork of
state laws that dictate how companies should respond to data breaches.

There is growing recognition that there is no silver bullet. Firewalls and
antivirus software alone cannot keep hackers out, so corporations are beginning
to take a more layered approach to data protection. Major retailers have pledged
to adopt more secure payment schemes by the end of next year. Banks are making
it easier for customers to monitor their monthly statements for identity theft.
And suddenly, pie-in-the-sky ideas that languished in research labs for years
are being evaluated by American hardware makers for use in future products.

"People are recognizing that existing technologies aren't working," said Richard
A. Clarke, the first cybersecurity czar at the White House. "It's almost
impossible to think of a company that hasn't been hacked - the Pentagon's secret
network, the White House, JPMorgan - it is pretty obvious that prevention and
detection technologies are broken."

Companies that continue to rely on prevention and detection technologies like
firewalls and antivirus products are considered sitting ducks.

"People are still dealing with this problem in a technical way, not a strategic
way," said Scott Borg, the head of the United States Cyber Consequences Unit, a
nonprofit organization. "People are not thinking about who would attack us, what
their motives would be, what they would try to do. The focus on the technology
is allowing these people to be blindsided.

"They are looking obsessively at new penetrations," Mr. Borg said. "But once
someone is inside, they can carry on for months unnoticed."

The Keys to Preparation

The companies most prepared for online attacks, Mr. Borg and other experts say,
are those that have identified their most valuable assets, like a university's
groundbreaking research, a multinational's acquisition strategy, Boeing's
blueprints to the next generation of stealth bomber or Target's customer data.
Those companies take additional steps to protect that data by isolating it from
the rest of their networks and encrypting it.

That approach - what the N.S.A. has termed "defense in depth" - is slowly being
adopted by the private sector. Now, in addition to firewalls and antivirus
products, companies are incorporating breach detection plans, more secure
authentication schemes, technologies that "white list" traffic and allow in only
what is known to be good, encryption and the like.

"We're slowly getting combinations of new technologies that deal with this
problem," Mr. Clarke said.

The most prominent examples are Google, Yahoo, Microsoft and Facebook. Mr.
Snowden revealed that the N.S.A. might have been grabbing data from those
companies in unencrypted form as it passed between their respective data
centers. Now, they all encrypt their traffic as it flows internally between
their own data centers.

Though intelligence analysts may disagree, security experts say all of this is a
step in the right direction. But security experts acknowledge that even the most
advanced security defenses can break down. A widely used technology sold by
FireEye, one of the market leaders in breach detection, failed to detect
malicious code in an independent lab test this year. The product successfully
identified 93 percent of the threats, but as the testers pointed out, it is not
the 99 percent of detected threats that matter. It is the 1 percent that are
missed that allow hackers to pull off a heist.

Even when security technologies do as advertised, companies are still missing
the alerts. Six months before Target was breached last year, it installed a $1.6
million FireEye intrusion detection system. When hackers tripped the system,
FireEye sounded alarms to the company's security team in Bangalore, which
flagged the alert for Target's team at its headquarters in Minneapolis. Then
nobody reacted until 40 million credit card numbers and information on 70
million more customers had been sent to computers in Russia, according to
several investigators.

Part of the problem, security chiefs say, is "false positives," the constant
pinging of alerts anytime an employee enters a new database or downloads a risky
app or email attachment. The result, they complain, is a depletion of resources
and attention.

"We don't need 'big data.' We need big information," said Igor Baikalov, a
former senior vice president for global information security at Bank of America,
now chief scientist at Securonix, a private company that sells threat
intelligence to businesses.

Securonix is part of a growing class of security start-ups, which includes
Exabeam and Vectra Networks in Silicon Valley and several other companies that
use the deluge of data from employee computers and personal devices to give
security officers intelligence they can act on.

Many companies in the Fortune 500 are building their own systems that
essentially do the same thing. These technologies correlate unusual activity
across multiple locations, then raise an alarm if they start to look like a
risk. For example, the technologies would increase the urgency of an alert if an
employee suddenly downloaded large amounts of data from a database not regularly
used, while simultaneously communicating with a computer in China.

The future of security, experts say, won't be based on digital walls and moats
but on these kinds of newer data-driven approaches.

"Most large organizations have come to the painful recognition that they are
already in some state of break-in today," said Asheem Chandna, a venture capital
investor at Greylock Partners. "They are realizing they need to put new and
advanced sensors in their network that continuously monitor what is going on."

While much progress is being made, security experts bemoan that there is still
little to prevent hackers from breaking in in the first place.

In May, the F.B.I. led a crackdown on digital crime that resulted in 90 arrests,
and Robert Anderson, one of the F.B.I.'s top officers on such cases, said the
agency planned to take a more aggressive stance. "There is a philosophy change.
If you are going to attack Americans, we are going to hold you accountable," he
said at a cybersecurity meeting in Washington.

Still, arrests of hackers are few and far between.

"If you look at an attacker's expected benefit and expected risk, the equation
is pretty good for them," said Howard Shrobe, a computer scientist at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "Nothing is going to change until we can
get their expected net gain close to zero or - God willing - in the negative."

Until last year, Dr. Shrobe was a manager at the Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency, known as Darpa, overseeing the agency's Clean Slate program, a
multiproject "Do Over" for the computer security industry. The program included
two separate but related projects. Their premise was to reconsider computing
from the ground up and design new computer systems that are much harder to break
into and that recover quickly when they have been breached.

" 'Patch and pray' is not a strategic answer," Dr. Shrobe said. "If that's all
you do, you're going to drown."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 3, 2014 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Targeting Customers on Mobile During Holiday Shopping Season

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 891 words


AS consumers increasingly regard smartphones, tablets and other mobile devices
as necessities, using them for practically everything except breathing (might
there soon be an app for that, too?), marketers were urged at a conference on
Tuesday to ''make the most of mobile moments.''

The entreaty, from Christine Morrison, group social media manager at Intuit,
helped set the stage for the conference, which was put on in Midtown Manhattan
by the Association of National Advertisers; the media agency MediaVest was the
presenting sponsor. The event carried an ambitious title -- the 2014 A.N.A.
Mobile First, Mobile Everywhere Conference -- and the estimated 200 attendees
were even offered a mobile app to facilitate making the most of their moments
there.

It was a coincidence that the conference was held days after the release of data
that showed shoppers used mobile devices more than ever before to go online on
Thanksgiving and Black Friday. For example, according to the IBM U.S. Retail
Black Friday Report, on Thanksgiving, smartphones and tablets accounted for 52.1
percent of all online traffic, exceeding traditional PCs for the first time. And
one speaker, Shawn DuBravac, chief economist and director of research for the
Consumer Electronics Association, estimated that ''55 to 60 percent of all
online traffic this weekend was happening on mobile devices.''

Whatever the timing, the shopping statistics served to underline the power of
mobile.

Walmart received ''an incredible amount of mobile traffic'' in the last few
days, said Wanda Young, vice president for media, digital and partnership
marketing at Walmart, who made her presentation with Coleen Kuehn, president for
client leadership of MediaVest, the Walmart media agency of record.

On Monday Walmart broke previous sales records, Ms. Young said, and enjoyed
''our largest Cyber Monday ever.''

The bargain-hunting that goes on in the days before Christmas is a more intense
version of a behavior demonstrated daily by hordes of shoppers. For instance, at
Walmart, ''customers who care the most about savings'' are known as ''value
seekers,'' Ms. Young said.

Remaining relevant to those customers in an increasingly mobile world meant
Walmart had to rethink its low-price guarantee program, Ms. Young said. The
result was a service called the Walmart Savings Catcher, available through the
Walmart mobile app as well as traditional PCs.

Of the ''millions of receipts that have been submitted'' by shoppers using
Savings Catcher, Ms. Kuehn said 80 percent were uploaded on a mobile device. The
service compares the prices on the Walmart receipts with prices at other local
stores -- and if the competitors have lower advertised prices, customers get the
difference on e-gift cards.

''What's next?'' Ms. Young asked, then described how Walmart was ''working to
make sure our 5,000 local stores' Facebook pages'' were reaching out to shoppers
with the right ''hyper-local targeting.'' When an audience member asked who
Walmart's biggest competitor is, Ms. Young and Ms. Kuehn replied together,
''Amazon.''

Another speaker, Ron Amram, senior marketing director of Heineken USA, was also
an evangelist for mobile, describing it as ''potentially the most powerful
marketing platform'' and one that ought to be considered ''before you think
about digital, before you think about television.'' Among the reasons he gave
for his effusive endorsement were ubiquity (''Mobile is everywhere''),
engagement (''Everything is experiential with the phone in your hands'') and
personalization (''It is the remote control to your life'').

Mobile ads also provide ''targetability,'' Mr. Amram said, in that they can be
aimed at people through ''demographics, what platform they're using, behavior,
time of day, social interest, geo-location, hyper-location.''

For instance, after three months of a test campaign in the Southeast that used
traditional media to sell men ages 21 to 29 on a new beer, Desperados, awareness
was ''zero percent,'' Mr. Amram said. ''It had no impact.''

After a three-month mobile campaign ''targeting millennials in the evening
hours'' on weekends, he added, awareness reached 23 percent.

There are some challenges to mobile marketing, Mr. Amram acknowledged,
particularly for a maker of alcoholic beverages that must follow stipulations
and regulations to avoid selling to underage consumers. ''This is what makes it
hard for an alcohol brand to be first'' with mobile ad innovations, he said.

Mr. DuBravac, during his presentation, described how smartphones are ''less
beholden to telephony'' and are ''becoming hub devices'' to do things like
''measure your baby's weight'' and ''check vehicle diagnostics.''

''The next big push will be taking siloed data streams and putting them
together,'' he said, offering as examples how providing the Weather Channel
access to his calendar could result in tailored information on a destination he
planned to travel to or how ''tying Fitbit into shoe purchases'' could lead to
Zappos recommending shoe replacements based on how many miles someone has run.

''If Netflix had access to my smartwatch, my smart thermometer and a camera in
my room, it could offer more robust recommendations,'' Mr. DuBravac said, and,
''If I'm depressed, it's cold, I'm alone,'' Netflix might recommend a Nicholas
Sparks movie he may not otherwise want to watch.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/03/business/media/targeting-customers-on-mobile-d
uring-holiday-shopping-season.html

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Coleen Kuehn of MediaVest, left, and Wanda Young of Walmart,
right, at the A.N.A. Mobile  First, Mobile Everywhere Conference.Walmart's
mobile traffic has been huge in recent days. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHY
CASTRO/ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 3, 2014 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dow Industrials Climb Higher on News of Strong Sales at G.M.

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 552 words


Energy and health care companies led the stock market higher on Tuesday, even as
crude oil resumed its slide.

General Motors rose after reporting stronger sales, and Biogen Idec, a big
biotechnology company, jumped after news that its drug for Alzheimer's disease
showed promise.

The Dow Jones industrial average gained 102.75 points, or 0.58 percent, to
17,879.55, for another nominal new high.

The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 13.11 points, or 0.64 percent, to
2,066.55.

The Nasdaq composite index increased 28.46 points, or 0.6 percent, to 4,755.81.

Reports that fewer people turned out to shop over the Thanksgiving weekend
lowered the market on Monday. But those concerns were most likely overblown, as
other evidence suggests that people simply wanted to avoid the crowds at Black
Friday sales, said Brad McMillan, the chief investment officer at Commonwealth
Financial. IBM Digital Analytics, for instance, said that sales on Cyber Monday
jumped 8 percent.

''I think what you're seeing is a little reality settling in,'' Mr. McMillan
said. ''Look at Cyber Monday numbers. You see that and say, 'Hmm, maybe it's not
going to be so bad after all.' ''

Among the stocks on the move, G.M. gained 32 cents, or 1 percent, to $33.26,
after the automaker reported its sales climbed 6 percent to nearly 226,000 in
November.

Biogen Idec climbed $19.83, or 6.43 percent, to $328.27, after it said it was
planning a late-stage trial of its experimental Alzheimer drug.

Avanir Pharmaceuticals rose $1.92, or 12.8 percent, to $16.92, after Otsuka
Pharmaceuticals of Japan agreed to buy the company for $3.5 billion, or $17 a
share in cash.

Royal Caribbean Cruises surged $4.46, or 6.17 percent, to $76.75. On Thursday,
the cruise line operator will be added to the S.&P. 500 index, replacing Bemis,
a packaging maker. When a company joins the S.&P. 500, it tends to attract more
money from investors who want to stick close to the benchmark.

Crude oil prices resumed their slide, with the January contract falling $2.12,
to settle at $66.88 a barrel in New York trading. The slump in oil prices has
rippled throughout financial markets in recent weeks, putting stress on
oil-exporting countries such as Russia.

On Tuesday, Russia's government forecast that the country's economy would shrink
next year. That helped send Russia's currency down 5 percent against the dollar
and drive its RTS stock index down 3 percent.

''The economic conditions Russia is facing right now are aggressively against
its economy,'' said Jameel Ahmad, chief market analyst for FXTM.

The one economic report out on Tuesday gave investors some encouragement. Newly
built houses and schools lifted construction spending in October to the highest
level since May, the Commerce Department said. Overall construction spending
climbed 1.1 percent, higher than economists' forecasts.

Traders will have a batch of economic news to digest over the rest of the week.
On Thursday, the European Central Bank will discuss whether the region's
flagging economy needs more assistance. On Friday, the Labor Department will
release its widely watched report on the job market, looking at employment in
November.

In the bond market, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note increased to 2.29
percent, from 2.24 percent late Monday, while its price fell 16/32, to 99 20/32.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/03/business/daily-stock-market-activity.html

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial
average at 1-minute intervals on  Tuesday. (Source: Bloomberg)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 3, 2014 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hacked vs. Hackers: Game On

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Bits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2089 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- Paul Kocher, one of the country's leading cryptographers, says
he thinks the explanation for the world's dismal state of digital security may
lie in two charts.

One shows the number of airplane deaths per miles flown, which decreased to
one-thousandth of what it was in 1945 with the advent of the Federal Aviation
Administration in 1958 and stricter security and maintenance protocols. The
other, which details the number of new computer security threats, shows the
opposite. There has been more than a 10,000-fold increase in the number of new
digital threats over the last 12 years.

The problem, Mr. Kocher and security experts reason, is a lack of liability and
urgency. The Internet is still largely held together with Band-Aid fixes.
Computer security is not well regulated, even as enormous amounts of private,
medical and financial data and the nation's computerized critical infrastructure
-- oil pipelines, railroad tracks, water treatment facilities and the power grid
-- move online.

If a stunning number of airplanes in the United States crashed tomorrow, there
would be investigations, lawsuits and a cutback in air travel, and the airlines'
stock prices would most likely plummet. That has not been true for hacking
attacks, which surged 62 percent last year, according to the security company
Symantec. As for long-term consequences, Home Depot, which suffered the worst
security breach of any retailer in history this year, has seen its stock float
to a high point.

In a speech two years ago, Leon E. Panetta, the former defense secretary,
predicted it would take a ''cyber-Pearl Harbor'' -- a crippling attack that
would cause physical destruction and loss of life -- to wake up the nation to
the vulnerabilities in its computer systems.

No such attack has occurred. Nonetheless, at every level, there has been an
awakening that the threats are real and growing worse, and that the prevailing
''patch and pray'' approach to computer security simply will not do.

So what happened?

The Wake-Up Call

A bleak recap: In the last two years, breaches have hit the White House, the
State Department, the top federal intelligence agency, the largest American
bank, the top hospital operator, energy companies, retailers and even the Postal
Service. In nearly every case, by the time the victims noticed that hackers were
inside their systems, their most sensitive government secrets, trade secrets and
customer data had already left the building.

The impact on consumers has been vast. Last year, over 552 million people had
their identities stolen, according to Symantec, and nearly 25,000 Americans had
sensitive health information compromised -- every day -- according to the
Department of Health and Human Services. Over half of Americans, including
President Obama, had to have their credit cards replaced at least once because
of a breach, according to the Ponemon Group, an independent research
organization.

But the value of those stolen credit cards, which trade freely in underground
criminal markets, is eclipsed by the value of the intellectual property that has
been siphoned out of United States corporations, universities and research
groups by hackers in China -- so much so that security experts now say there are
only two types of companies left in the United States: those that have been
hacked and those that do not yet know they have been hacked.

And this year, American companies learned it was not just Beijing they were up
against. Thanks to revelations by the former intelligence agency contractor
Edward J. Snowden, companies worry about protecting their networks from their
own government. If the tech sector cannot persuade foreign customers that their
data is safe from the National Security Agency, the tech industry analysis firm
Forrester Research predicts that America's cloud computing industry stands to
lose $180 billion -- a quarter of its current revenue -- over the next two years
to competitors abroad.

''People are finally realizing that we have a problem that most had not thought
about before,'' said Peter G. Neumann, a computer security pioneer at SRI
International, the Silicon Valley engineering research laboratory. ''We may have
finally reached a crossroads.''

Is There a Playbook?

Only certain kinds of companies, like hospitals and banks, are held up to
scrutiny by government regulators when they are hacked. And legal liability
hasn't been established in the courts, though Target faces dozens of lawsuits
related to a hack of that company's computer network a little over a year ago.

But if there is a silver lining to the current predicament, Mr. Neumann and
other security experts say, it is that computer security, long an afterthought,
has been forced into the national consciousness.

Customers, particularly those abroad, are demanding greater privacy protections.
Corporations are elevating security experts to senior roles and increasing their
budgets. At Facebook, the former mantra ''move fast and break things'' has been
replaced. It is now ''move slowly and fix things.'' Companies in various sectors
have started informal information-sharing groups for computer security. And
President Obama recently called on Congress to pass a national data breach law
to provide ''one clear national standard'' rather than the current patchwork of
state laws that dictate how companies should respond to data breaches.

There is growing recognition that there is no silver bullet. Firewalls and
antivirus software alone cannot keep hackers out, so corporations are beginning
to take a more layered approach to data protection. Major retailers have pledged
to adopt more secure payment schemes by the end of next year. Banks are making
it easier for customers to monitor their monthly statements for identity theft.
And suddenly, pie-in-the-sky ideas that languished in research labs for years
are being evaluated by American hardware makers for use in future products.

''People are recognizing that existing technologies aren't working,'' said
Richard A. Clarke, the first cybersecurity czar at the White House. ''It's
almost impossible to think of a company that hasn't been hacked -- the
Pentagon's secret network, the White House, JPMorgan -- it is pretty obvious
that prevention and detection technologies are broken.''

Companies that continue to rely on prevention and detection technologies like
firewalls and antivirus products are considered sitting ducks.

''People are still dealing with this problem in a technical way, not a strategic
way,'' said Scott Borg, the head of the United States Cyber Consequences Unit, a
nonprofit organization. ''People are not thinking about who would attack us,
what their motives would be, what they would try to do. The focus on the
technology is allowing these people to be blindsided.

''They are looking obsessively at new penetrations,'' Mr. Borg said. ''But once
someone is inside, they can carry on for months unnoticed.''

The Keys to Preparation

The companies most prepared for online attacks, Mr. Borg and other experts say,
are those that have identified their most valuable assets, like a university's
groundbreaking research, a multinational's acquisition strategy, Boeing's
blueprints to the next generation of stealth bomber or Target's customer data.
Those companies take additional steps to protect that data by isolating it from
the rest of their networks and encrypting it.

That approach -- what the N.S.A. has termed ''defense in depth'' -- is slowly
being adopted by the private sector. Now, in addition to firewalls and antivirus
products, companies are incorporating breach detection plans, more secure
authentication schemes, technologies that ''white list'' traffic and allow in
only what is known to be good, encryption and the like.

''We're slowly getting combinations of new technologies that deal with this
problem,'' Mr. Clarke said.

The most prominent examples are Google, Yahoo, Microsoft and Facebook. Mr.
Snowden revealed that the N.S.A. might have been grabbing data from those
companies in unencrypted form as it passed between their respective data
centers. Now, they all encrypt their traffic as it flows internally between
their own data centers.

Though intelligence analysts may disagree, security experts say all of this is a
step in the right direction. But security experts acknowledge that even the most
advanced security defenses can break down. A widely used technology sold by
FireEye, one of the market leaders in breach detection, failed to detect
malicious code in an independent lab test this year. The product successfully
identified 93 percent of the threats, but as the testers pointed out, it is not
the 99 percent of detected threats that matter. It is the 1 percent that are
missed that allow hackers to pull off a heist.

Even when security technologies do as advertised, companies are still missing
the alerts. Six months before Target was breached last year, it installed a $1.6
million FireEye intrusion detection system. When hackers tripped the system,
FireEye sounded alarms to the company's security team in Bangalore, which
flagged the alert for Target's team at its headquarters in Minneapolis. Then
nobody reacted until 40 million credit card numbers and information on 70
million more customers had been sent to computers in Russia, according to
several investigators.

Part of the problem, security chiefs say, is ''false positives,'' the constant
pinging of alerts anytime an employee enters a new database or downloads a risky
app or email attachment. The result, they complain, is a depletion of resources
and attention.

''We don't need 'big data.' We need big information,'' said Igor Baikalov, a
former senior vice president for global information security at Bank of America,
now chief scientist at Securonix, a private company that sells threat
intelligence to businesses.

Securonix is part of a growing class of security start-ups, which includes
Exabeam and Vectra Networks in Silicon Valley and several other companies that
use the deluge of data from employee computers and personal devices to give
security officers intelligence they can act on.

Many companies in the Fortune 500 are building their own systems that
essentially do the same thing. These technologies correlate unusual activity
across multiple locations, then raise an alarm if they start to look like a
risk. For example, the technologies would increase the urgency of an alert if an
employee suddenly downloaded large amounts of data from a database not regularly
used, while simultaneously communicating with a computer in China.

The future of security, experts say, won't be based on digital walls and moats
but on these kinds of newer data-driven approaches.

''Most large organizations have come to the painful recognition that they are
already in some state of break-in today,'' said Asheem Chandna, a venture
capital investor at Greylock Partners. ''They are realizing they need to put new
and advanced sensors in their network that continuously monitor what is going
on.''

While much progress is being made, security experts bemoan that there is still
little to prevent hackers from breaking in in the first place.

In May, the F.B.I. led a crackdown on digital crime that resulted in 90 arrests,
and Robert Anderson, one of the F.B.I.'s top officers on such cases, said the
agency planned to take a more aggressive stance. ''There is a philosophy change.
If you are going to attack Americans, we are going to hold you accountable,'' he
said at a cybersecurity meeting in Washington.

Still, arrests of hackers are few and far between.

''If you look at an attacker's expected benefit and expected risk, the equation
is pretty good for them,'' said Howard Shrobe, a computer scientist at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''Nothing is going to change until we can
get their expected net gain close to zero or -- God willing -- in the
negative.''

Until last year, Dr. Shrobe was a manager at the Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency, known as Darpa, overseeing the agency's Clean Slate program, a
multiproject ''Do Over'' for the computer security industry. The program
included two separate but related projects. Their premise was to reconsider
computing from the ground up and design new computer systems that are much
harder to break into and that recover quickly when they have been breached.

'' 'Patch and pray' is not a strategic answer,'' Dr. Shrobe said. ''If that's
all you do, you're going to drown.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RICHARD A. CLARKE THE FIRST CYBERSECURITY CZAR AT THE WHITE
HOUSE (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARKUS SCHREIBER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
PETER G. NEUMANN A COMPUTER SECURITY PIONEER AT SRI INTERNATIONAL (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPHE VORLET) (F1)
GRAPHICS: 18 Months of Breaches, Flaws and Revelations
Hitting the Government
 Other Breaches (F7)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Sinosphere)

                           December 3, 2014 Wednesday

For China, Cybersecurity Is Part of Strategy for Protecting the Communist Party

BYLINE: EDWARD WONG

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1079 words



HIGHLIGHT: A paper released by the Center for a New American Security in
Washington concludes that China&#8217;s cybersecurity strategy, like its foreign
policy, is driven mainly by the domestic political imperative to &#8220;protect
the longevity of the Chinese Communist Party.&#8221;


For nearly two years, cyberespionage has been atense focal point of relations
between the United States and China. On Wednesday, the Center for a New American
Security, a research group in Washington, released a paper written with the aim
of understanding the motivations behind China's cybersecurity strategy. Its
conclusion: that the strategy, like China's foreign policy, is driven mainly by
the domestic political imperative of needing to "protect the longevity of the
Chinese Communist Party."

The paper is based on readings of Chinese-language sources and tries to lay out
reasons for why state-supported actors engage in cyberespionage and other
activities. The paper's author, Amy Chang, a research associate in the center's
technology and national security program, argues that there are three main
components of the cybersecurity strategy - economic, political and military -
and that they are all aimed at ensuring the survival of party rule.

For example, Ms. Chang writes that maintaining economic growth and stability,
which is critical to legitimizing the party in the eyes of ordinary Chinese, is
a goal of industrial economic cyberespionage, which the White House has said is
carried out at least in part by hackers employed by the People's Liberation
Army.

China's cybersecurity strategy - which it calls "network security"
(\xE7\x91[#x7edc][#x5b89][#x5168]) - also ranges from mastering information
control and propaganda with the goal of preventing or quelling domestic
instability to studying foreign adversaries' military infrastructure and
capabilities in the cyber realm, according to the paper.

Nevertheless, "despite high-level guidance and strategic direction from Xi
Jinping and senior civilian and military officials, implementation of China's
cybersecurity strategy remains fragmented and its bureaucratic structure remains
disorganized, characterized by competition for stakeholder resources and
influence on policy direction," Ms. Chang wrote in the executive summary,
referring to the Chinese president and party leader who is the head of the main
policy group on cybersecurity.

The 37-page paper is posted here. Ms. Chang began her research while studying
for a master's degree at the Harvard Kennedy School and wrote her thesis on this
subject under the guidance of Prof. Joseph S. Nye, Jr. A former resident of
Beijing, she visited the Chinese capital again last month to attend a conference
on foreign policy. She discussed her research with The New York Times:

Q.

What motivated you to write this report, and why did you decide to use
Chinese-language primary source material as the foundation?

A.

There is plenty of content in Western media that highlights what China has done
against the United States in the cyber realm, as well as how China conducted
these operations, but not enough attention has been paid to why China does what
it does against the U.S. and in the international sphere in cyberspace. Further,
much less research has been accessible to the public that has used
Chinese-language primary source material, which can reveal trends and nuances
that are overlooked when analysts focus too closely on English-language sources.

I was motivated to write the report because the state of U.S.-China
cybersecurity relations had deteriorated so greatly that it started to affect
other areas of the bilateral relationship. I hope that this report provides
greater clarity on motivating factors for state behavior that would allow U.S.
policy makers to better tailor policy solutions toward China.

Q.

Last month, around the time you were visiting Beijing, China's top Internet
regulator, Lu Wei, organized what he called the World Internet Conference in
Zhejiang Province. He met with Chinese and foreign business executives, and one
of his main goals was to get others to support the concept of "Internet
sovereignty." What are your thoughts on that?

A.

The World Internet Conference was an attempt by China to assert influence in the
Internet governance debate, as well as legitimize many of its "Internet
management" techniques in front of a global, high-level audience.

China's counternarrative on Internet governance by promoting sovereignty on the
Internet has little lasting effect among Western audiences - and open Asian
societies such as Japan, Korea, Taiwan - especially when held in the light of
Chinese behavior during the recent Hong Kong protests, domestic limitations on
Chinese Internet - for example, real name registration on social media,
censorship - and other behaviors exhibited by the regime over the years.

China capitalized on the Snowden leaks in 2013 - despite the differing economic
and national security nature of espionage between the United States and China -
to promote this counter-narrative, which gained some traction among nations that
were angered by U.S. espionage activity or that wanted to exert greater control
over their Internet. Beyond the limited number of supporters like Russia and
Syria, China's efforts in this realm continue to fall on deaf ears. Whether or
not China's activity in this sphere - i.e., asserting the Internet sovereignty
narrative - will set a precedent for other nations, however, is to be seen, but
should be watched closely.

Q.

You write that Xi Jinping has given high-level guidance on China's cybersecurity
strategy, yet that strategy remains fragmented among competing organizations and
individuals. To the best of your knowledge, which agencies or individuals are
the most powerful drivers behind the policies?

A.

To my knowledge the Central Network Security and Informatization Leading Small
Group, the National Security Commission and the State Informatization Leading
Group have strong influence behind policies. However, I don't currently have
enough information to infer which individuals are major drivers of their
strategy or policy, beyond Xi Jinping and members of the N.S.C. and the leading
groups. This is an interesting point that I will look into.

Q.

At the end of your paper, you say you'll give policy recommendations in a brief
in 2015. Can you give us a preview of some of those recommendations?

A.

The recommendations will be multisectoral and iterative. One recommendation that
I would consider would be to promote closer public-private cooperation to
address China's extraction of information in a more cohesive and coordinated
manner, as well as increase U.S. economic leverage and bargaining ability to
change China's risk calculus.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                           December 3, 2014 Wednesday

Today in Small Business: Pregnancy Discrimination

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 565 words



HIGHLIGHT: Private-sector hiring fell shy of estimates in November. There is big
business in ugly Christmas sweaters. And the value of the world&#8217;s largest
truffle.


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.

The Economy


     ·    Private-sector hiring fell shy of estimates in November.
     ·    November's car and light truck sales were the second-highest in eight
          years.
     ·    Productivity rises at 2.3 percent pace.
     ·    Construction spending was up 1.1 percent in October.
     ·    Chief executives from major companies do not expect strong economic
          growth in 2015, according to a new survey.
     ·    Another round of fiscal brinkmanship is bringing economic uncertainty.


Employees


     ·    Businesses are paying attention to a pregnancy discrimination case
          before the Supreme Court.
     ·    Windowless cubicles are bad for your sleep and mental health.
     ·    A number of businesses that have low-skilled, minimum-wage jobs to
          fill offer English language programs to employees who speak little or
          no English.


Start-Up


     ·    This is what happens when your start-up is a hit on Product Hunt.
     ·    Here is how not to get fired for building a side business.
     ·    A product that started as a successful Kickstarter campaign
          transformed into "the worst product ever made."


Cash Flow


     ·    Sprint offers a deal that promises to cut the bills of Verizon and
          AT&T customers in half.
     ·    Bankers, doctors and dentists are most likely to fall for investment
          scams, according to a study from Britain.
     ·    Capital One ShareBuilder is offering a free setup for individual
          401(k) plans this week for small-business owners.


Management


     ·    More bosses are pushing weekly "pulse surveys" to gauge the happiness
          of  employees.
     ·    Despite the losses, Amazon's chief executive plans to take more risks.


Opportunities


     ·    There is big business in ugly Christmas sweaters.
     ·    Found in Italy, the world's largest truffle is expected to sell for
          more than $1 million.


Marketing


     ·    Here is the "best branded content" of November.


Social Media


     ·    AMC apologizes for spoiling "The Walking Dead" finale on Facebook.


Ideas


     ·    Researchers are working on a breathalyzer to keep pot smokers off the
          road.


Online


     ·    Facebook, the iPhone 6 and Kim Kardashian top Bing's search lists.
     ·    Cyber Monday sales rose but fell short of expectations.


Washington


     ·    The Senate majority leader signals support for the House Republicans'
          funding plan, potentially staving off a government shutdown.
     ·    But is bonus depreciation "costly and outrageous"?


Around the Country


     ·    Chicago's minimum wage workers will earn $13 an hour by 2019 under a
          plan approved by its city council.
     ·    Downtown Detroit suffers a major power outage.
     ·    Georgia's small businesses are targeted by suspicious mailings.
     ·    New York City plans to nurture a crop of minority developers.
     ·    Bitcoin enthusiasts flock to Disney for the inaugural Coins in the
          Kingdom conference.
     ·    A Vermont utility is praised for socially conscious practices.
     ·    A Google event in Pontiac, Mich., next week will try to help small
          businesses succeed online.
     ·    Here's how the cost of a train station swelled to $4 billion.


Around the World


     ·    Russia is on the brink of recession.


Technology


     ·    Google Drive now converts Microsoft Office files inside Gmail.
     ·    A maker of software that can translate spoken words from those who are
          speech-impaired wins an innovation competition.
     ·    Stephen Hawking warns that artificial intelligence could make humans
          extinct.
     ·    A software maker raises cash to build furniture companies an
          all-in-one software solution.


Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps
clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 3, 2014 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hacked vs. Hackers: Game On

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Bits; BITS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2121 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- Paul Kocher, one of the country's leading cryptographers, says
he thinks the explanation for the world's dismal state of digital security may
lie in two charts.

One shows the number of airplane deaths per miles flown, which decreased to
one-thousandth of what it was in 1945 with the advent of the Federal Aviation
Administration in 1958 and stricter security and maintenance protocols. The
other, which details the number of new computer security threats, shows the
opposite. There has been more than a 10,000-fold increase in the number of new
digital threats over the last 12 years.

The problem, Mr. Kocher and security experts reason, is a lack of liability and
urgency. The Internet is still largely held together with Band-Aid fixes.
Computer security is not well regulated, even as enormous amounts of private,
medical and financial data and the nation's computerized critical infrastructure
-- oil pipelines, railroad tracks, water treatment facilities and the power grid
-- move online.

If a stunning number of airplanes in the United States crashed tomorrow, there
would be investigations, lawsuits and a cutback in air travel, and the airlines'
stock prices would most likely plummet. That has not been true for hacking
attacks, which surged 62 percent last year, according to the security company
Symantec. As for long-term consequences, Home Depot, which suffered the worst
security breach of any retailer in history this year, has seen its stock float
to a high point.

In a speech two years ago, Leon E. Panetta, the former defense secretary,
predicted it would take a ''cyber-Pearl Harbor'' -- a crippling attack that
would cause physical destruction and loss of life -- to wake up the nation to
the vulnerabilities in its computer systems.

No such attack has occurred. Nonetheless, at every level, there has been an
awakening that the threats are real and growing worse, and that the prevailing
''patch and pray'' approach to computer security simply will not do.

So what happened?

The Wake-Up Call

A bleak recap: In the last two years, breaches have hit the White House, the
State Department, the top federal intelligence agency, the largest American
bank, the top hospital operator, energy companies, retailers and even the Postal
Service. In nearly every case, by the time the victims noticed that hackers were
inside their systems, their most sensitive government secrets, trade secrets and
customer data had already left the building. And in just the last week Sony
Pictures Entertainment had to take computer systems offline because of an
aggressive attack on its network.

The impact on consumers has been vast. Last year, over 552 million people had
their identities stolen, according to Symantec, and nearly 25,000 Americans had
sensitive health information compromised -- every day -- according to the
Department of Health and Human Services. Over half of Americans, including
President Obama, had to have their credit cards replaced at least once because
of a breach, according to the Ponemon Group, an independent research
organization.

Graphic: 18 Months of Breaches, Flaws and Revelations

But the value of those stolen credit cards, which trade freely in underground
criminal markets, is eclipsed by the value of the intellectual property that has
been siphoned out of United States corporations, universities and research
groups by hackers in China -- so much so that security experts now say there are
only two types of companies left in the United States: those that have been
hacked and those that do not yet know they have been hacked.

And this year, American companies learned it was not just Beijing they were up
against. Thanks to revelations by the former intelligence agency contractor
Edward J. Snowden, companies worry about protecting their networks from their
own government. If the tech sector cannot persuade foreign customers that their
data is safe from the National Security Agency, the tech industry analysis firm
Forrester Research predicts that America's cloud computing industry stands to
lose $180 billion -- a quarter of its current revenue -- over the next two years
to competitors abroad.

''People are finally realizing that we have a problem that most had not thought
about before,'' said Peter G. Neumann, a computer security pioneer at SRI
International, the Silicon Valley engineering research laboratory. ''We may have
finally reached a crossroads.''

Is There a Playbook?

Only certain kinds of companies, like hospitals and banks, are held up to
scrutiny by government regulators when they are hacked. And legal liability
hasn't been established in the courts, though Target faces dozens of lawsuits
related to a hack of that company's computer network a little over a year ago.

But if there is a silver lining to the current predicament, Mr. Neumann and
other security experts say, it is that computer security, long an afterthought,
has been forced into the national consciousness.

Customers, particularly those abroad, are demanding greater privacy protections.
Corporations are elevating security experts to senior roles and increasing their
budgets. At Facebook, the former mantra ''move fast and break things'' has been
replaced. It is now ''move slowly and fix things.'' Companies in various sectors
have started informal information-sharing groups for computer security. And
President Obama recently called on Congress to pass a national data breach law
to provide ''one clear national standard'' rather than the current patchwork of
state laws that dictate how companies should respond to data breaches.

There is growing recognition that there is no silver bullet. Firewalls and
antivirus software alone cannot keep hackers out, so corporations are beginning
to take a more layered approach to data protection. Major retailers have pledged
to adopt more secure payment schemes by the end of next year. Banks are making
it easier for customers to monitor their monthly statements for identity theft.
And suddenly, pie-in-the-sky ideas that languished in research labs for years
are being evaluated by American hardware makers for use in future products.

''People are recognizing that existing technologies aren't working,'' said
Richard A. Clarke, the first cybersecurity czar at the White House. ''It's
almost impossible to think of a company that hasn't been hacked -- the
Pentagon's secret network, the White House, JPMorgan -- it is pretty obvious
that prevention and detection technologies are broken.''

Companies that continue to rely on prevention and detection technologies like
firewalls and antivirus products are considered sitting ducks.

''People are still dealing with this problem in a technical way, not a strategic
way,'' said Scott Borg, the head of the United States Cyber Consequences Unit, a
nonprofit organization. ''People are not thinking about who would attack us,
what their motives would be, what they would try to do. The focus on the
technology is allowing these people to be blindsided.

''They are looking obsessively at new penetrations,'' Mr. Borg said. ''But once
someone is inside, they can carry on for months unnoticed.''

The Keys to Preparation

The companies most prepared for online attacks, Mr. Borg and other experts say,
are those that have identified their most valuable assets, like a university's
groundbreaking research, a multinational's acquisition strategy, Boeing's
blueprints to the next generation of stealth bomber or Target's customer data.
Those companies take additional steps to protect that data by isolating it from
the rest of their networks and encrypting it.

That approach -- what the N.S.A. has termed ''defense in depth'' -- is slowly
being adopted by the private sector. Now, in addition to firewalls and antivirus
products, companies are incorporating breach detection plans, more secure
authentication schemes, technologies that ''white list'' traffic and allow in
only what is known to be good, encryption and the like.

''We're slowly getting combinations of new technologies that deal with this
problem,'' Mr. Clarke said.

The most prominent examples are Google, Yahoo, Microsoft and Facebook. Mr.
Snowden revealed that the N.S.A. might have been grabbing data from those
companies in unencrypted form as it passed between their respective data
centers. Now, they all encrypt their traffic as it flows internally between
their own data centers.

Though intelligence analysts may disagree, security experts say all of this is a
step in the right direction. But security experts acknowledge that even the most
advanced security defenses can break down. A widely used technology sold by
FireEye, one of the market leaders in breach detection, failed to detect
malicious code in an independent lab test this year. The product successfully
identified 93 percent of the threats, but as the testers pointed out, it is not
the 99 percent of detected threats that matter. It is the 1 percent that are
missed that allow hackers to pull off a heist.

Even when security technologies do as advertised, companies are still missing
the alerts. Six months before Target was breached last year, it installed a $1.6
million FireEye intrusion detection system. When hackers tripped the system,
FireEye sounded alarms to the company's security team in Bangalore, which
flagged the alert for Target's team at its headquarters in Minneapolis. Then
nobody reacted until 40 million credit card numbers and information on 70
million more customers had been sent to computers in Russia, according to
several investigators.

Part of the problem, security chiefs say, is ''false positives,'' the constant
pinging of alerts anytime an employee enters a new database or downloads a risky
app or email attachment. The result, they complain, is a depletion of resources
and attention.

''We don't need 'big data.' We need big information,'' said Igor Baikalov, a
former senior vice president for global information security at Bank of America,
now chief scientist at Securonix, a private company that sells threat
intelligence to businesses.

Securonix is part of a growing class of security start-ups, which includes
Exabeam and Vectra Networks in Silicon Valley and several other companies that
use the deluge of data from employee computers and personal devices to give
security officers intelligence they can act on.

Many companies in the Fortune 500 are building their own systems that
essentially do the same thing. These technologies correlate unusual activity
across multiple locations, then raise an alarm if they start to look like a
risk. For example, the technologies would increase the urgency of an alert if an
employee suddenly downloaded large amounts of data from a database not regularly
used, while simultaneously communicating with a computer in China.

The future of security, experts say, won't be based on digital walls and moats
but on these kinds of newer data-driven approaches.

''Most large organizations have come to the painful recognition that they are
already in some state of break-in today,'' said Asheem Chandna, a venture
capital investor at Greylock Partners. ''They are realizing they need to put new
and advanced sensors in their network that continuously monitor what is going
on.''

While much progress is being made, security experts bemoan that there is still
little to prevent hackers from breaking in in the first place.

In May, the F.B.I. led a crackdown on digital crime that resulted in 90 arrests,
and Robert Anderson, one of the F.B.I.'s top officers on such cases, said the
agency planned to take a more aggressive stance. ''There is a philosophy change.
If you are going to attack Americans, we are going to hold you accountable,'' he
said at a cybersecurity meeting in Washington.

Still, arrests of hackers are few and far between.

''If you look at an attacker's expected benefit and expected risk, the equation
is pretty good for them,'' said Howard Shrobe, a computer scientist at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''Nothing is going to change until we can
get their expected net gain close to zero or -- God willing -- in the
negative.''

Until last year, Dr. Shrobe was a manager at the Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency, known as Darpa, overseeing the agency's Clean Slate program, a
multiproject ''Do Over'' for the computer security industry. The program
included two separate but related projects. Their premise was to reconsider
computing from the ground up and design new computer systems that are much
harder to break into and that recover quickly when they have been breached.

'' 'Patch and pray' is not a strategic answer,'' Dr. Shrobe said. ''If that's
all you do, you're going to drown.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/12/02/hacked-vs-hackers-game-on/

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RICHARD A. CLARKE THE FIRST CYBERSECURITY CZAR AT THE WHITE
HOUSE (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARKUS SCHREIBER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
PETER G. NEUMANN A COMPUTER SECURITY PIONEER AT SRI INTERNATIONAL (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPHE VORLET) (F1)
GRAPHICS: 18 Months of Breaches, Flaws and Revelations
Hitting the Government
 Other Breaches (F7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 4, 2014 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Take It From Here

BYLINE: By SIMONE S. OLIVER and VALERIYA SAFRONOVA

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 47 words


­If you slept through Black Friday and worked through Cyber Monday, and have yet
to get started on your holiday shopping, these gift suggestions, from a comfy
hotel bathrobe to a makeup kit inspired by Karl Lagerfeld's cat, may just bail
you out. SIMONE S. OLIVER and VALERIYA SAFRONOVA

URL:

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 7, 2014 Sunday
                                    National

Cruz's Stand on Online Tax is Unwelcome on Main St.

BYLINE: By ROSS RAMSEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 37A

LENGTH: 755 words


AUSTIN, Tex. --  Who knew a conservative politician could get criticized by
business for opposing a tax bill?

United States Senator Ted Cruz, a Texan on the early list of potential 2016
Republican presidential candidates, is talking about sales taxes on the
Internet, which seems safe enough.

Two taxes are in his sights, and one is almost completely without controversy,
especially for a limited-government conservative like Mr. Cruz. The senator does
not think the bills you pay for access to the Internet should be taxable. Most
of the support for taxing Internet access comes from governments hoping to
benefit. According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, that tax
brought in $358 million last year for state and local governments in Texas.

Mr. Cruz's opposition to sales taxes on goods and services sold online, however,
has raised the eyebrows of everyone from government budget writers to retailers
that compete with Internet and catalog sales.

''The last thing we should be doing is passing a massive new Internet sales
tax,'' Mr. Cruz said at a recent news conference in Washington. He is opposed to
federal legislation that would require online retailers to collect sales tax for
the states where those customers reside -- just like retailers in those states
have to do. The legislation would treat online retailers as if they were located
in the states where they are making their sales, whether they have a physical
presence or not.

It is easy enough for someone from the federal government, which does not rely
on sales taxes, to oppose the levies, whatever means of commerce they come from.
But sales taxes are the biggest source of revenue for the state government in
Texas and an important source for local governments. Texas would have collected
an additional $1.78 billion in 2012 had all online and catalog sales been taxed,
according to the National Conference of Legislatures. Nationwide, the states
missed $23.3 billion, by the organization's estimate.

Local governments have property taxes to supplement other kinds of revenue. The
state has other sources, but nothing on the order of the sales tax. Texas has no
state income tax and only a few people in public life willing to even consider
one. Property taxes pull in money for local governments and school systems, but
are constitutionally prohibited at the state level.

Only one of the three classical legs of the tax stool -- income, wealth and
consumption -- is used by the state, and Mr. Cruz is whittling on that one.

Consumption has changed. You probably heard the news that retail sales on the
day after Thanksgiving -- Black Friday, as it is known -- were down and that
online sales were up on ''Cyber Monday,'' a few days later.

The suggestion from Mr. Cruz is that those Monday sales, or a significant
portion of them, should not be subject to sales taxes.

Some brick-and-mortar retailers, people who own stores where customers shop in
the traditional way, are not happy. Their argument, broadcast by a trade group
called Stand With Main Street, is simple: It costs 8.25 percent more to buy
something in their Texas stores, where sales taxes are collected, than it costs
to buy the same item online, where sales taxes are often not collected. They
recently directed an attack on Mr. Cruz on BuzzFeed as part of a more general
campaign to get the sales tax bill through Congress.

The businesses have been lobbying for years -- first against mail-order
companies and now against Internet retailers -- to force everyone to play by the
same rules.

Mr. Cruz flips the argument, saying the small mom-and-pop retailers are falling
victim to big retailers on and off the Internet. His reasoning is that only the
big guys have the administrative ability to manage tax liabilities and audits
and bureaucracies in every state where they sell things and that the little ones
will get crushed.

Lots of online sellers already collect Texas sales taxes from their customers.
If they have physical properties here, the state has been aggressive in pulling
them in. Amazon, which went for a long time without collecting the taxes, now
does.

Mr. Cruz is not the only politician opposed to the federal bill; his Senate
colleague from Texas, John Cornyn, is also opposed.

But he is making the most noise about it, and on a national stage. And it is
hard, especially for conservative politicians, to argue in favor of more sales
taxes.

Ross Ramsey, the executive editor of The Texas Tribune, writes a regular column
for The Tribune.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/07/us/ted-cruzs-stand-on-online-tax-is-unwelcome-
on-main-st.html

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                          December 10, 2014 Wednesday

New York Today: A Saint's Books in Brooklyn

BYLINE: ANNIE CORREAL

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 476 words



HIGHLIGHT: Wednesday: The St. Francis of Assisi manuscripts at Borough Hall,
rain turns to snow, and female firefighters rally at City Hall.


 Good morning on this chilly Wednesday.

It's likely to snow today.

Downtown Brooklyn is for many people a crossroads - a place to shop, go to
court, change trains.

Soon it may also be a destination for pilgrims and historians.

The sacred manuscripts associated with St. Francis of Assisi will be on display
at Borough Hall next week.

It is the second local leg of their first trip outside of Italy in 700 years;
they also made an unexpectedly long stop at the United Nations.

The exhibit, "Friar Francis: Traces, Words, Images," includes a 13th-century
manuscript with a wood cover lined in goat leather that was painstakingly
restored by Paduan monks.

The organizers chose Brooklyn not for its residents' fondness for such things,
but because they "wanted a place for the people," as Antonella Villa of the
Associazione Culturale Antiqua in Italy said.

Borough President Eric Adams, who will announce the exhibition today, said it
was an opportunity "to reflect on the messages in these texts, including empathy
for all creatures and a love for the poor and needy."

"These values are the values of One Brooklyn," he said.

The display cases were made by Recycled Brooklyn, a woodworking company in Red
Hook.

The exhibition opens next Wednesday and closes on Jan. 14.

Here's what else you need to know.

WEATHER

Rain, then possibly rain and snow, then possibly just snow. And cold, with a
high of 38 and a bracing breeze.

Half an inch of snow could fall before the night does.

COMING UP TODAY

Female firefighters rally on the City Hall steps before a hearing on how to
increase their numbers in the department. 9:30 a.m.

City officials announce $1.5 million for a cultural immigrant initiative. City
Hall steps. 10 a.m.

A rally against a proposed plan to house 250 inmates at Rikers Island in
"enhanced supervision housing" with longer stints in solitary. 1 p.m.

A former secretary of the Navy suggests returning to analog to curb "America's
cyber dependencies" at a lecture at Metrotech in Brooklyn. 9 a.m.

Search no further for a fancy light pink Golconda diamond: Christie's auctions
one for a mere $4 million. 10 a.m.

For more events, see The New York Times Arts & Entertainment guide.

COMMUTE

Subway  and  PATH

L.I.R.R., Metro-North, N.J. Transit, Amtrak

Roads: Check traffic map or radio report on the 1s or the 8s.

Alternate-side parking: in effect.

Air travel: La Guardia, J.F.K., Newark.

Jim Dwyer and Kenneth Rosen contributed reporting.

New York Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till late
morning. You can receive it via email.

What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at
nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.

Follow the New York Today columnists, Annie Correal and Andy Newman, on Twitter.

You can always find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     December 10, 2014 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Online Deals for Holiday Shopping: Buyer Beware;
State of the Art

BYLINE: FARHAD MANJOO

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; personaltech

LENGTH: 1254 words



HIGHLIGHT: Much of what look like holiday-season steals are in fact no such
thing. A watchdog group found under 1 percent of the "deals" it looked at
actually were.


On Black Friday, Kohl's offered what looked like a terrific deal on the Jawbone
UP24, a stylish fitness-tracking band the retailer ordinarily sells for $130.

In honor of that hallowed national day of shopping, Kohl's was cutting its price
on the UP24 by more than 20 percent, to just $100. The Kohl's price cut was
heralded by dozens of websites that compile supposedly stupendous holiday
discounts. Wired even included Kohl's UP24 sale in its list of Top 50 Black
Friday deals.

There was just one problem: Kohl's price -- as is surprisingly typical -- wasn't
much of a deal at all.

Every year, the holiday shopping season is hit by a blizzard of apparent
discounts. From the week before Thanksgiving to the end of the year, retailers
and manufacturers pump out tens of thousands of so-called deals -- limited-time,
often extravagant offers that they suggest you'd be a fool to miss.

Searching for deals online has become an increasingly popular way to navigate
the shopping season, according to Google's data, and this year interest has been
higher than ever. But the people who study the holiday discount bonanza say that
our knee-jerk reverence for these discounts is misplaced.

"What surprised me was how many of these deals were bad," said Jacqui Cheng, the
editor in chief of the product review sites The Wirecutter and The Sweethome.

During the holidays, Ms. Cheng turns her entire staff of about 20 writers and
editors toward investigating advertised discounts on technology and home goods.
"I kind of expected that we would be able to say that 85 percent or 90 percent
were bad, but it turns out that almost literally every single one is bad," Ms.
Cheng said.

So far this year, The Wirecutter and The Sweethome have researched 54,000
holiday deals. They've found that only a bit more than 300 of them-- less than 1
percent -- are worth your time. "When we find a deal that we think is good, it's
a needle in a haystack," Ms. Cheng said. "We're super-excited when that
happens."

At Best Buy and Amazon.com, for instance, the UP24 fitness band had been selling
for as little as $80. What's more, Kohl's $130 "regular price" wasn't quite
regular. Though that is the manufacturer's suggested price, the UP24 has been
selling online for less than $120 since late summer, later falling as low as
$100, according toCamel Camel Camel, an oddly named but useful price-tracking
site. Even now, well past Black Friday, it's easy to find the UP24 for $100, the
price that Kohl's advertised as some kind of limited-time opportunity.

The explosion of less-than-stellar deals advertised on the web, a medium that
has often been held out as a shopper's best friend, is a bit surprising. Wasn't
it supposed to liberate us from price gimmicks?

"There was this period when people were saying that the Internet was going to
usher in a golden age for consumers, where everyone would start
comparison-shopping and no one would pay a penny more than they should," said
William Poundstone, the author of "Priceless: The Myth of Fair Value (and How to
Take Advantage of It)," a book about the psychology of pricing. "But we are all
busy, distracted, and we have limited time and attention to devote to research,
so we all fall victim to these tricks."

What's more, researchers say, the very prospect of getting a deal clouds our
thinking. "I think an important factor here is that when describing or dangling
discounts in front of consumers, retailers arouse in consumers an emotional
desire, a passion, or at least an impulse to get a bargain," Robert Schindler, a
professor of marketing at the Rutgers University School of Business, wrote in an
email.

That passion can impair our judgment, sometimes so severely that we press Buy
without ever bothering to check if the deal holds up.

One of the most common holiday gimmicks is to suggest that an item has been
heavily marked down from a "suggested price." Ms. Cheng pointed to an example at
Macy's, which, last week, was offering a Breville Smart toaster oven for a
limited-time sale price of $280, plus an additional 10 percent off if you typed
in the offer code FRIEND when you checked out. That would get you the oven for
about $252, which Macy's suggested is a huge discount off the item's regular
price of $417.

Except that isn't the normal sales price. According to Camel Camel Camel, a site
that Ms. Cheng advises people to check every time they encounter an online deal,
Amazon has been selling the Breville toaster oven for $250 for months. Best Buy,
Crate & Barrel, and several other national retailers are also offering it for
that price. (This week, Macy's also changed its sale price to $250.)

So where did Macy's $417 regular price come from? Julie Strider Fukami, a
spokeswoman, said in an email that Macy's advertised "regular" prices are "based
on many different factors, including the cost of the item, overhead, benefits we
offer ... as well as our ability to offer the item at a lower price during sale
events." She noted, though, that as Macy's explains in fine print on its site,
"regular" prices may never have resulted in any actual sales. To me, this looks
fishy -- posting a "regular" price that resulted in potentially zero sales seems
like a tactic meant to make you feel like you're getting a deal, even when
Macy's sale price is actually more expensive than other retailers' ordinary
prices.

The Breville is one of the best-rated toaster ovens on the market, which
suggests another reason to be skeptical of such a deal.

"The stuff that's really good is almost never on sale," said Brian Lam, the
founder of The Wirecutter and The Sweethome. Mr. Lam has been looking at holiday
deals for years, and when he comes upon a genuinely huge discount, he has found
that it often comes with a huge catch: The item isn't very good to begin with,
and is usually not worth buying at any price.

Consider the 55-inch, ultra-high-definition Samsung television that Best Buy was
selling for just $899 on Black Friday. It had been discounted $500 from its
original price, and with a promise of a high-resolution, so-called 4K screen, it
looked like it could be the deal of the century. (Best Buy has since raised the
price to $1,299.)

But when The Wirecutter staff looked into that model, they found that the
Samsung set had a very bad case of "motion blur," a common effect in flat-panel
displays in which images lose their sharpness when they're in motion. One review
found that the Samsung's "4K resolution only holds true on a static picture; on
a moving image you'd be lucky to get 1K."

Considering that most people like to watch shows with at least a bit of
on-screen movement, this low-priced set looked more like a high-priced stinker.

The lesson here: When you spot a deal, do your homework.

"Assume most deals are not good," Mr. Lam said. "Don't get distracted by the
razzle-dazzle of double-digit percent off. Figure out what you need, and then do
the math. Otherwise you'll get lost in a sea of apparent discounts that are most
likely not good things, or not good prices."

Email: farhad.manjoo@nytimes.com; Twitter: @fmanjoo

PHOTOS: "The stuff that's really good is almost never on sale," said Brian Lam,
the founder of The Wirecutter and The Sweethome. He has studied holiday deals
for years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER MICHEL); A Breville Smart toaster and the
Jawbone UP24. Both are popular gifts this season, and their prices are
relatively stable across various retail websites. But some sites say their
discounts off "regular" prices are deeper. (B7)
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDENBERG)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 11, 2014 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sony's Dirty Laundry, for All to See

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY and BROOKS BARNES; Nicole Perlroth contributed
reporting from San Francisco.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1200 words


LOS ANGELES -- Salaries of its top executives. Unpublished scripts. Sensitive
contracts. Aliases that stars use to check into hotels.

Those are just some of the disclosures from a devastating hacking attack on
Sony's movie studio last month. But among all of the information that has
spilled forth, perhaps nothing has riveted Hollywood more -- and laid bare the
machinations at the highest levels of the film industry -- than a humiliating
email exchange between Amy Pascal, Sony's co-chairwoman, and the producer Scott
Rudin over Angelina Jolie and a planned Steve Jobs biopic.

On Wednesday, Sony was scrambling to cope with the fallout from the incendiary
emails posted by Gawker, the tabloid news site, that revealed an ugly internal
battle over ''Jobs,'' an Aaron Sorkin-scripted biopic of the Apple co-founder.
Mr. Rudin, who is widely known for his razor-toothed missives and temper, was
upset that his favored director for the picture, David Fincher, was being pulled
by Ms. Jolie toward a competing Sony movie, a remake of ''Cleopatra'' with Ms.
Jolie in the title role.

Mr. Rudin referred to Ms. Jolie as ''a minimally talented spoiled brat'' and
pressured Ms. Pascal to shelve ''Cleopatra.''

Ms. Pascal at times tried to calm Mr. Rudin, whose company is supported
financially under a deal with Sony, writing, ''This doesn't need to get crazy.''

By the end, however, ''Jobs'' had moved to Universal, and Mr. Rudin, according
to the emails, told Ms. Pascal that she had ''behaved abominably, and it will be
a very, very long time before I forget what you did.''

Ms. Pascal then wrote a lieutenant to ''get rid of him,'' an apparent reference
to Mr. Rudin's deal.

Ms. Pascal declined a request to discuss the exchange. A spokesman for Ms. Jolie
said she had no comment.

''This is not about salacious emails being batted around by Gawker and
Defamer,'' Mr. Rudin said on Wednesday. ''It's about a criminal act, and the
people behind it should be treated as nothing more nor less than criminals.''

For Michael Lynton, the chief executive of a music, television and movies unit
called Sony Entertainment, the hacking scandal has ensnared him and his company
at a time when he was supposed to be on a victory lap. Some in the film industry
have speculated that he soon planned to climb the corporate ladder into a job
that would add to his responsibilities, perhaps to coincide with a planned move
of his home base from Los Angeles to New York.

Mr. Lynton declined through a spokesman to address that talk on Wednesday, but
one person briefed on his plans said no change in his corporate responsibilities
was in the works.

Recently, Mr. Lynton had won a battle with the activist investor Daniel S. Loeb,
who sought improved profitability. The studio announced layoffs, cut its budget,
recruited fresh executive talent, and secured much-needed outside movie
financing. In early November, Sony confidently projected that revenue would rise
by a third over the next three years.

But now Mr. Lynton is instead scrambling to advise both his superiors at the
Sony Corporation in Japan and his employees on the studio's Culver City, Calif.,
lot as to the extent of the damage and of steps he and they must take to contain
it over the coming weeks and perhaps years.

Some computer systems remain down for fear of reinfecting them, and the studio
could be two to three months away from restoring all of them.

The studio is insured against at least some of its losses. The final tab is
likely to be much less than the $100 million-plus estimates that have been
floated by outsiders, one person briefed on the studio's situation said.

People briefed on Mr. Lynton's movements said he returned at midweek from a
long-planned trip to Japan, where he discussed business strategy and the breach.
On Friday, he is expected to address a rare mass gathering of employees.

A veteran of the publishing industry, Mr. Lynton was named chairman of Sony
Pictures, a post he still holds, in 2003. In April 2013, the studio said it had
renewed his employment contract, but did not disclose its terms.

Executives at Sony say Mr. Lynton has been methodically but quietly engaged
since the beginning of the attack -- a posture that matches his notably cerebral
approach to studio management. At his studio, marching orders are for a rapid
return to business as usual.

In that spirit, the studio has rejected any notion that it should scrap ''The
Interview,'' a planned comedy, starring Seth Rogen and James Franco, about the
North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, though hackers who identified themselves as
the Guardians of Peace appear to cite the film as a reason for the attack.

On Wednesday, senior movie executives at Sony insisted that ''The Interview''
would be released as planned on Christmas, but acknowledged that additional
security had been ordered for a premiere on Thursday in downtown Los Angeles.

Security experts and law enforcement continue to search for the attackers, who
may never be found.

''Attribution is very difficult until there has been a full analysis and even
then, it can be impossible,'' said Liam O'Murchu, a senior security research
manager at Symantec, the security company.

Speaking at a cybersecurity conference on Tuesday, Joseph Demarest, the
assistant director with the Federal Bureau of Investigation's cyber division,
said only, ''There is no attribution to North Korea at this point.''

The attacks on Sony were orchestrated by command and control centers across the
world, including computers at a convention center in Singapore and one at
Thammasat University in Thailand, as well as others in Cyprus, Poland, Italy,
the United States and Bolivia.

Mr. Lynton and other senior Sony executives have so far not spoken publicly, but
memos to employees have been leaked to the media. On Sunday -- perhaps in an
effort to counter reports that Sony had been lax with its computer security --
Mr. Lynton sent a companywide bulletin quoting Kevin Mandia, the chief executive
of Mandiant, an online security firm hired to help Sony recover.

''The scope of this attack differs from any we have responded to in the past,''
Mr. Mandia wrote. ''The bottom line is that this was an unparalleled and
well-planned crime, carried out by an organized group, for which neither SPE''
-- Sony Pictures Entertainment -- ''nor other companies could have been fully
prepared.''

Representatives from the F.B.I., which has been leading the investigation into
the culprits, were on Sony's Culver City lot on Wednesday to brief employees
about online security. Some Sony employees have watched in recent days as their
identities have been stolen; the leaked information has been used to open false
mortgage accounts and even buy women's handbags at Beverly Hills boutiques.

The crisis recalled an episode 20 years ago when about 200 pages of the studio's
financial documents were leaked to the trade publication Variety. Alan J.
Levine, then Sony's chief operating officer, threatened legal action if the
numbers were printed; with that, and some backdoor bargaining, the problem was
nipped.

''I couldn't even dream of how big a nightmare this might be,'' Mr. Levine said
on Wednesday. ''This could actually just be the tip of the iceberg.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/11/business/media/emails-from-hacking-reveal-sony
s-dirty-laundry.html

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Lynton, a Sony official, is trying to return the studio
to normalcy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOSHIFUMI KITAMURA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY
IMAGES) (B1)
The cast of ''The Interview,'' about the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un,
includes, above from left, Diana Bang, Seth Rogen and James Franco. Scott Rudin,
right, and Amy Pascal at a party in 2011. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ED ARAQUEL/COLUMBIA
PICTURES
 NEILSON BARNARD/GETTY IMAGES) (B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           December 11, 2014 Thursday

Daily Report: Online Deals That May Be Too Good to Be True

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 157 words



HIGHLIGHT: Most online holiday-season shopping steals are in fact no such thing.
A watchdog group found that under 1 percent of the &#8220;deals&#8221; it looked
at actually were.


On Black Friday, Kohl's offered what looked like a terrific deal on the Jawbone
UP24, a stylish fitness-tracking band the retailer ordinarily sells for $130,
Farhad Manjoo writes in his State of the Art column.

In honor of that hallowed national day of shopping, Kohl's was cutting its price
on the UP24 by more than 20 percent, to just $100. The Kohl's price cut was
heralded by dozens of websites that compile supposedly stupendous holiday
discounts. Wired even included Kohl's UP24 sale in its list of Top 50 Black
Friday deals.

There was just one problem: Kohl's price - as is surprisingly typical - wasn't
much of a deal at all.

Every year, the holiday shopping season is hit by a blizzard of apparent
discounts. From the week before Thanksgiving to the end of the year, retailers
and manufacturers pump out tens of thousands of so-called deals - limited-time,
often extravagant offers that they suggest you would be a fool to miss. Read
more »

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                           December 11, 2014 Thursday

Teaching About Cybersecurity: Taking Steps to Improve Online Safety and Prevent
Data Breaches

BYLINE: JENNIFER CUTRARO

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1594 words



HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students will learn about the extent of cyberattacks
just in the past year and the risks they pose for companies, governments and
individuals.


 Overview | From data breaches at Target, Home Depot, JPMorgan and even the
White House to celebrities' stolen photos, cybersecurity and online privacy have
been making the headlines every week. But how do data breaches at companies and
government institutions affect individuals? What can individuals do to enhance
their digital security?

In this lesson, students will learn about the extent of cyberattacks just in the
past year and the risks they pose for companies, governments and individuals.
They also will learn about the steps individuals and organizations can take to
better protect their data online, and will reflect on their own digital security
practices.

Materials | Computers with Internet access

Warm Up | Initiate a quick brainstorm about computer security with your
students, as a way to assess their level of understanding. Ask questions such
as: What have you heard in the news recently about people harming companies or
other organizations by gaining unauthorized access to their computer systems?
How do these people break into the computers, and what steps can we take to keep
this from happening in the future?

Then, watch the NOVA Labs video "Cybersecurity 101". [Stop the video at 3:05].

Have a short conversation about the main points raised in the video.  What is
the Internet, and how did connecting computers into networks introduce the
vulnerabilities that criminals take advantage of today? What are some of the
ways in which networked computers can be compromised, and why is it difficult to
prevent these kinds of attacks?

Related | In the Bits post "Hacked vs. Hackers: Game On", Nicole Perlroth
explores the explosive growth in cyberattacks against governments, companies and
individuals over the past decade:

Paul Kocher, one of the country's leading cryptographers, says he thinks the
explanation for the world's dismal state of digital security may lie in two
charts.

One shows the number of airplane deaths per miles flown, which decreased to
one-thousandth of what it was in 1945 with the advent of the Federal Aviation
Administration in 1958 and stricter security and maintenance protocols. The
other, which details the number of new computer security threats, shows the
opposite. There has been more than a 10,000-fold increase in the number of new
digital threats over the last 12 years.

The problem, Mr. Kocher and security experts reason, is a lack of liability and
urgency. The Internet is still largely held together with Band-Aid fixes.
Computer security is not well regulated, even as enormous amounts of private,
medical and financial data and the nation's computerized critical infrastructure
- oil pipelines, railroad tracks, water treatment facilities and the power grid
- move online.

Read the entire article with your class, using the questions below.

Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension:


     ·    What is digital security, and why are experts in the field concerned
          about its "dismal state" in the United States?
     ·    What is data and what are some of the kinds of data that are
          increasingly being stored online? What is a "data breach," and what
          are some of the consequences of data breaches for governments,
          organizations and individuals?
     ·     In the post, Perlroth states, "...at every level, there has been an
          awakening that the [cyber] threats are real and growing worse, and
          that the prevailing "patch and pray" approach to computer security
          simply will not do." What evidence does she use to support the
          argument that threats to computer security are growing worse? Cite
          three specific examples.
     ·     What steps can companies take to prepare for online attacks, and why
          are these steps helpful?
     ·     What are firewalls and why should these be only one part of a broader
          computer security scheme?


Activity

In this activity, students will read additional coverage of major online data
breaches and assess their scope and impact. They also will review security
experts' suggestions for preventing these kinds of attacks in the future and
assess the protections they have in place for their own online data.

Part 1: Assessing the Impact

Divide the class into groups and assign one of the articles listed below to each
group.


     ·    Sony Films Are Pirated And Hackers Leak Studio Salaries
     ·    Home Depot Says Hackers Also Stole Email Addresses
     ·    Target Struck in the Cat-and-Mouse Game of Credit Card Theft and
          Target Missed Signs of a Data Breach
     ·    Russian Hackers Amass Over a Billion Passwords
     ·    JPMorgan Chase Hacking Affects 76 Million Households and Obama Had
          Security Fears on JPMorgan Breach


Each group should briefly summarize the article, noting:


     ·    The name of the organization attacked;
     ·    The nature of the data breach - Were credit card numbers stolen?
          Passwords? Personal information?
     ·    The extent of the breach: How many people did it affect? How much
          money does the organization estimate it lost as a result of the data
          breach? What other information was compromised?
     ·    How the cyberattack occurred, if known. Did the organization, for
          example, take any missteps that allowed for data to be easily
          compromised?
     ·    What, if anything, could have prevented it.
     ·    What should individuals do if they are concerned their financial or
          personal information might have been stolen?


Then have groups briefly present what they learned. You might record the key
pieces of information about the nature and extent of major data breaches in a
table at the front of the room.

Part 2: Taking Steps to Improve Security

Watch the video "How to Create a Secure Password," and talk about tips for
creating secure passwords. Those students with smartphones might also assess how
secure these devices are and make notes on how they might improve their security
settings as well.

Be sure students can explain:


     ·    Why do these tips improve the strength of a password?
     ·    Why do security experts recommend using long passwords - specifically,
          passwords that are 10 digits long?
     ·    What is two-step authentication, and how does this enhance user
          security and privacy?


Have students assess the passwords they use in light of the information they
just learned. How secure are their passwords? Do they think they should come up
with more secure passwords? Do they currently use the same password on more than
one website or device? Now that they have learned more about how to protect
their own data online, what changes might they make to their online behavior?

Finally, have students read "Getting a Clear Picture of a Computer Network's
Security." Why does Hitesh Sheth call the fight to keep hackers out of corporate
computer systems a "race you cannot win?" What are some ways in which computer
security systems are trying to win this race? How does human error sometimes
thwart even the best security software, and why are retailers who use credit and
debit card systems especially vulnerable to data breaches?

Going Further

1. Cybersecurity: You might delve deeper into the topic of cybersecurity by
first learning about the Internet in the first place - how did it develop, and
how did its design unintentionally lead to the kinds of vulnerabilities we are
seeing more and more every day? Then, have students play the NOVA Labs
Cybersecurity Lab game, in which they take steps to protect a company from
increasingly sophisticated cyberattacks. You can also have students respond to
our Student Opinion question, "Whom Would You Share Your Passwords With?"

2. Online Privacy: To further explore online privacy, students could log into
Take This Lollipop, an interactive Facebook app that shows users the degree to
which their personal information is available on Facebook. The app incorporates
the user's own photographs, posts, and other personal information into a short
"horror movie"  in which the user becomes the subject of a cyberstalker. [Note:
the movie, while short, may be disturbing to some students; use discretion when
deciding whether to share with your class]. Follow up with a conversation about
what students saw. How did it feel to see their information being used in this
way? Were they surprised by how much of their information the app could access?

Alternatively, students might visit Privacy Grade, an online tool that grades
popular apps, such as Instagram and Angry Birds, for their privacy safeguards.
And, they can read what other students have to say on the topic, and share their
own opinions, through our Student Opinion question, "Do You Wish You Had More
Privacy Online?"

3. Digital Literacy and Citizenship: Use our guest post "Who Are You Online?
Considering Issues of Web Identity" by the Common Sense Media writer Kelly
Schryver to explore issues related to social media, privacy settings and online
behavior.

Standards

This resource may be used to address the academic standards listed below.

Common Core E.L.A. Anchor Standards

Reading


     ·     1 Read closely to determine what the text says explicitly and to make
          logical inferences from it; cite specific textual evidence when
          writing or speaking to support conclusions drawn from the text.
     ·     7 Integrate and evaluate content presented in diverse media and
          formats, including visually and quantitatively, as well as in words.


McREL Standards and Resources

Technology


     ·     1 Knows the characteristics and uses of computer hardware and
          operating systems.
     ·     2 Knows the characteristics and uses of computer software programs.
     ·     3 Understands the relationships among science, technology, society,
          and the individual.
     ·     4 Understands the nature of technological design.
     ·     5 Understands the nature and operation of systems.
     ·     6 Understands the nature and uses of different forms of technology.


LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 14, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Old and Improved

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 847 words


This year brought so many promising new shows: 2014 was the year of ''True
Detective,'' ''The Honorable Woman,'' ''Fargo,'' ''The Affair,'' ''Olive
Kitteridge'' and ''Silicon Valley," among others. But there were also older
shows that either stayed the course or somehow climbed their way back from a dip
or even total eclipse, notably ''The Comeback,'' starring Lisa Kudrow, a HBO
comedy that was canceled in 2005 after one season and then resurrected in
November.

These are a few old shows that found new vigor in 2014 and deserve another look
-- and also a few that don't.

'Homeland' This Showtime espionage thriller seemed destined for irrelevance
after Brody (Damian Lewis) was finally killed at the end of Season 3. Season 4
has so far turned out to be remarkably vital and exhilarating without him, this
time by pitting Carrie (Claire Danes) against a beautiful, deceitful Pakistani
intelligence officer, Tasneem, (Nimrat Kaur).

'The Good Wife' Once Will (Josh Charles), Alicia's illicit love interest, died
at the end of Season 5, this sexy CBS courtroom drama seemed as if it might
droop and wither, but instead, the sixth season steamed with almost madcap
energy, mixing Alicia's newly fledged political campaign, a war of the roses
between Alicia's new firm and her old one, and the legal travails of Cary, her
legal partner. Alicia isn't quite so good anymore, and that makes ''The Good
Wife'' all the better.

'Law & Order: SVU' This NBC ripped-from-the-soap-opera perils of Olivia (Mariska
Hargitay) -- psychopath rapist-stalker, tortured love affair, new baby -- that
took up so much air last season finally died down, and this season, the show's
16th, the detectives got back to sex crimes à clef, including a Ray
Rice-inspired episode about a star sportscaster who was seen on a surveillance
camera punching the lights out of his wife.

'The Mindy Project' It doesn't matter that Mindy Kaling's comedy on Fox is in
its third season and still not a hit, because it keeps improving with age. It
has grown from a one-comedian showcase into a very funny ensemble effort, thanks
in part to the addition of Adam Pally in Season 2 and jokes about Ms. Kaling's
alma mater, Dartmouth.

'Episodes' This comedy on Showtime, too often overlooked, follows the
bewilderment of two British TV writers stuck in Hollywood creating a series for
Matt LeBlanc, who plays a diva version of himself very convincingly. Not many
shows set in the entertainment industry can sustain the conceit, but this is one
that got even better in its third year.

'Veep' ''House of Cards,'' the Netflix phenomenon, showed its weaknesses this
year, but HBO's ''Veep,'' the other most cynical show about Washington, got
stronger in its third season. The scene in a restroom in which Selina (Julia
Louis-Dreyfus) and her assistant, Gary (Tony Hale) discover that she is going to
become president and dissolve into uncontrollable laughter was one of the great
comic moments of 2014.

'The Americans' Set in the Reagan era, this FX series is nearly as deceptive as
KGB agents posing as suburban American couple: In its second season, ''The
Americans'' proved to be a drama about love, family, friendship and mistrust
disguised as a Cold War thriller.

'Jeopardy!' This game show celebrated the 50th anniversary of its debut
(broadcast on March 30, 1964), and proved it can still not only stump viewers
but also surprise them. That's not just because the host, Alex Trebek, briefly
regrew a mustache after 13 clean-shaven years, but also because some contestants
showed they could still rile an audience. This year, it was Arthur Chu, who
introduced a blitzkrieg style of gamesmanship that provoked a cyber hate-fest.
His strategy was thrilling and certainly effective: he came in second in the
Tournament of Champions. (Ben Ingram, the nice guy, finished first.)

Some hits have gone so far over the top they should be winded, yet instead keep
on puffing gusts of hot air, including ''Downton Abbey,'' ''Scandal'' and
''Revenge.'' A new addition on ABC, ''How to Get Away With Murder'' was a fun
substitute, a lurid nighttime soap opera about lawbreaking defense lawyers --
''Law & Disorder.''

There were also shows that didn't live up to early expectations but still had
traction, most notably ''The Affair,'' on Showtime, which began as a Hamptons
film noir and instead turned into a French art film. The crime may not be
commensurate with the series's punishingly slow pace and ''Rashomon"-like
storytelling, but the series picked up momentum -- and suspense -- in the final
episodes.

That was true, too, of ''Mad Men'' on AMC. which in its seventh season has all
but exhausted its characters and its 1960s setting, but is still keeping viewers
guessing about the end, which won't air until next year. ''The Sopranos'' ended
ambiguously. ''Breaking Bad,'' put an end to Walter White. Now, the next
television mystery looming ahead centers on Don Draper's last moments, dead or
alive.

MORE FROM THE YEAR IN TELEVISION:

Mike Hale's Best Shows of 2014

Neil Genzlinger on the Cancellation Calendar




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/arts/television/alessandra-stanleys-notable-tv
-stalwarts-of-2014-homeland-the-good-wife-and-more.html

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Claire Danes, left, in ''Homeland,'' which recovered well from
the loss of a character, and Lisa Kudrow, above, in ''The Comeback,'' which came
back from the dead. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID BLOOMER/SHOWTIME
 COLLEEN HAYES/HBO)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                            December 15, 2014 Monday

Why We Don't Offer Black Friday Discounts

BYLINE: LAURA ZANDER

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 622 words



HIGHLIGHT: Instead of putting stuff on sale, we came up with an exclusive,
limited-edition collection of products &#8212; at their regular prices.


On the Monday before Black Friday, one of our longtime retail employees came
into my office seeking advice. She was thinking about creating a Facebook post
aimed at our local customers and offering some secret in-store-only specials on
Black Friday. She knew we shied away from discounts at Jimmy Beans Wool, but she
wanted to double-check.

Here's what I told her (and everyone else at our morning meeting the next day):

"As a consumer, I love Black Friday. What's not to love about sitting in your
pajamas the day after Thanksgiving, wasting the day away with the iPad and a cup
of coffee (then Diet Coke, then wine as the day goes on), browsing and buying
from all of your favorite stores - and getting all of your holiday shopping done
in one day?

"Well, there is just one thing I don't like: the yucky feeling that I get the
other 364 days of the year when I pay full price at those same stores - or when
I see the store offering an even bigger discount the following Monday."

The discount game drives Doug, my husband and co-owner, and me nuts. And we
assume that if it drives us nuts, it probably drives other people nuts, too.
Here's how we think about it:


     ·    We are here for our customers' convenience. Not the other way around.
     ·    We work on our customers' schedule - not the other way around. We want
          them to know they can shop at their convenience, whenever it suits
          them.
     ·    When customers buy something from us, we want them to feel good about
          it. We don't want them to worry that they're missing out on something
          because they decided to shop on a Tuesday at 9 p.m. instead of during
          the big sale on Saturday at 1 p.m. I never, ever want our customers to
          regret their purchase or to feel like they could have gotten a better
          deal from us.
     ·    I don't want our customers to NOT purchase something on Thanksgiving,
          just because they think they might get a better price on Friday.
     ·    I also don't want to draw current or potential customers into our shop
          by promising them a deal. This may sound naïve, but I want our
          customers to love us and trust us for who we are - not because we are
          giving them a discount.


So here's what we did: Instead of going along with the Black Friday crowd, we
created our own event, the Friday before Black Friday. And instead of putting
stuff on sale, we came up with an exclusive, limited-edition collection of
products - at their regular prices. Our goal was to create something special,
rather than just cutting our prices.

Twelve of our suppliers prepared dyed yarns inspired by their favorite
Thanksgiving dishes - and also shared their recipes for cooking those dishes. We
packaged the products in an aluminum tray and launched an all-out social media
attack. We created Pinterest boards, photo albums on Facebook, a special
newsletter, and even a blog tour.

And then, on Dec. 1, we launched the "12 days of Yarn-mas." For this collection,
we offered 12 days of exclusive, limited-edition products from independent
brands that we don't normally carry. We offered them at full price.

Each day, we released a small amount of yarn that was hand-dyed to represent the
gift associated with that day: golden rings, lords a-leaping, etc. Again, we hit
the social media channels hard, as did all 12 of the indie brands. And we sold
out.

Here's the final irony: By creating something different, instead of just
dropping our prices, we ended up with a packed retail store on Black Friday
anyway. We created thousands of happy customers, 12 happy suppliers, and 12
ridiculously happy independent yarn dyers. Oh, and since Black Friday our sales
are up 43 percent over last year. I'll take that over a 40 percent discount any
day.

Laura Zander is chief executive of  Jimmy Beans Wool . You can follow the
company on  Twitter .

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (First Draft)

                            December 19, 2014 Friday

Obama Says U.S. Will Respond to North Korean Cyber Attack

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 173 words



HIGHLIGHT: President Obama decided not to tip his hand about how the United
States would respond to the Sony hacking attack, but he left no doubt he would
do something.


President Obama decided not to tip his hand about how the United States would
respond to the Sony cyber attack, but he left no doubt he would do something.

His statement that "we will respond proportionally and we will respond at a
place and time we choose" left the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Un, guessing
about whether the United States would seek to use economic sanctions or some
kind of counterattack for its action. He also said there was no evidence that
another country, including China, aided North Korea in conducting the attack.

He made it clear that the U.S. could not allow a destructive attack, designed to
intimidate, stand without a national response. Otherwise, he said, it would
encourage other countries to sabotage documentaries, "or news reports they don't
like."

And he said he had no doubt that future attacks on the U.S. were "going to be
sophisticated" and will do harm. He was attempting to create something that so
far does not exist: Deterrence for cyber attacks on the U.S., from North Korea
or other actors.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (Wordplay)

                            December 19, 2014 Friday

On Editing a Crossword

BYLINE: WILL SHORTZ

SECTION: CROSSWORDS

LENGTH: 1820 words



HIGHLIGHT: Will Shortz weighs in on how he edits the New York Times Crossword.


 SATURDAY PUZZLE - We receive a lot of questions about puzzles and how they come
to be, so today we have a very special treat: Will Shortz will take us, step by
step, through today's puzzle and explain his editorial process.

What's great about this - other than the fact that I get the day off - is that
it's a fascinating glimpse behind the scenes of a very different part of The New
York Times, one that many people find intimidating and mystifying. Today, we're
lucky to have the man who runs the show explain how he goes about determining
whether a clue stays or goes, why he might rewrite some of them, and how the
acceptance of entries changes over time.

After Mr. Shortz's post, we have comments from our constructors, Kevin G. Der
and Ian Livengood, so don't touch that dial. - D.A.

The Puzzlemaster Goes to Work

Most people have no idea what editing a crossword involves. Even my bosses at
The Times are clueless, I'm sure. So I thought solvers might find it interesting
if I explained my changes on a particular puzzle clue by clue. I chose today's
puzzle, because Kevin and Ian are both good clue writers, and the changes touch
on a lot of different points.

To set the scene: I work in my home office with my assistant, Joel Fagliano, who
has become a crackerjack clue writer himself over the past few years. We're
surrounded by dictionaries, two computers, and a wide array of reference books.
Generally speaking, Joel and I have the same likes and dislikes in clues. When
we decide to change one in a manuscript, we brainstorm, throwing out ideas to
each other in rapid succession, listening to reactions from the other person.
Usually we both have to like a clue in order for me to use it.

Below was our thinking on some of the clues in today's puzzle. In order: the
constructors' given clue, its answer, what Joel and I thought and our change (if
any).

Across

1  Where much grass grows [POT FARMS] - Lovely. Great start for the puzzle. Ten
years ago I probably wouldn't have allowed this, because I eschewed drug
references. They felt unseemly for The Times, given that marijuana was
universally illegal. But now that marijuana is legal in several states, and some
of its stigma has dissipated, I think an occasional pot reference is O.K.,
especially when it's clever.

9  Currency from which "shelling out" originated [WAMPUM] - Didn't care for
this, as it felt vague. New clue, using a slang term with the same general
meaning: Moolah.

15  Strongly rhythmic jazz offshoot [AFROBEAT] - While I let this pass, Frank
Longo, my chief test-solver and backup fact-checker, couldn't verify that
Afrobeat is an "offshoot" of jazz. Dictionaries define Afrobeat as a fusion of
jazz, soul and funk. New clue: Jazz/funk fusion genre.

16  One with a crest and shield [IGUANA] - Since almost no one knows what the
"shield" of an iguana is (it's a tiny spot on the side of the head), I didn't
feel comfortable throwing this at solvers. New clue, slightly more helpful, and
more understandable: Creature with a crest.

18  Select [CALL ON] - Not on-target enough. New clue (just as tough): Tap.

19  Arm of the sea? [TENTACLE] - Good, but I've used this clue five times
already, most recently in November. New clue: Place for a sucker.

20  Mass recitals [CREEDS] - Didn't like this, because I felt there is only one
creed that's recited at Masses. Multiple recitals of the same creed are not
"creeds." New clue: Faiths.

25  Plato portrayer in a 1955 film [MINEO] - Too vague. Many solvers wouldn't
know the film reference. New clue: Plato portrayer in "Rebel Without a Cause."

26  Org. catching some 11-Down [DEA] (11-Down = MULES) - Slight change, with
more accurate wording: Org. seeking to catch 11-Down.

27  Safe cracker? [POPGUN] - Nice idea, but I couldn't justify the word
"cracker" here. A popgun pops; it doesn't crack. New clue: Cork's place, maybe.

31  Breeder's objective [DOCILITY] - Maybe ... or maybe not. It depends on the
breeder and the type of animal. New clue: Tameness.

35  Teeming [APLENTY] - Since "aplenty" usually follows the noun it modifies, it
doesn't substitute well with the given clue. Generally you want a clue and its
answer to be interchangeable in a sentence, be in the same part of speech, and
have the same meaning. New clue: In abundance.

38  Delish [REAL GOOD] - Joel and I thought this was O.K., but Frank objected,
saying the clue was too specific for such a general phrase. New clue: Positive
response to "How ya doin'?"

42  Recipients of a 2009 Congressional Gold Medal [WASPS] - I had no idea what
this meant, and I hate, hate, hate clues like that. So we spelled it out: Flying
female fighters in W.W. II. (Incidentally, it's very hard to clue this meaning
of WASP without repeating any of the parts of the acronym - "women," "Airforce,"
"service," or "pilots." Try it yourself!)

44  Ghanian food staple [YAMS] - Too obscure. Also, for what it's worth, the
usual adjectival form of "Ghana" is "Ghanaian." New clue: Orange side dish.

46  Like most puzzles [CLUED] - Too vague, and maybe not even accurate, as many
types of puzzles don't have clues. New clue: Hip, with "in"

51  ___ Bullet (Calvin & Hobbes alter-ego) [TRACER] - Too trivial. New clue:
Kind of bullet.

53  Before making one's debut [PRENATAL] - Good. It just needed a question mark,
because of its stretchiness.

57  Warnings that come in five colors [ALERTS] - Too specific. Only the warnings
from the Department of Homeland Security come in five colors. Besides, you don't
even need the clue's last five words. New clue: Tip-offs, maybe.

60  Enterprise figure [NET SALES] - Too vague. This could refer to any
business-related figure. New clue, which doesn't change much, but is more
accurate and a little misleading besides: Important figure in business.

Down

3  One delivering a knockout [TRANK] - Good. It just needed "informally" at the
end. The slanginess of the answer needs to be signaled somehow.

5  Ones repeating "I do"? [ABBA] - Nice, but too vague. We added "in 1976."
That's the year "I Do, I Do, I Do, I Do, I Do" was a hit in the U.S.

6  Draw from, perhaps [REACH INTO] - Not exact enough. You can reach into
something without intending to draw from it. New clue (trying to avoid repeating
"in" in the answer, which is not easy): Access, as a pocket.

7  Film critic Janet [MASLIN] - Janet Maslin has been primarily a literary
critic since 1999. She was a film critic for The Times before that. New clue:
Literary/film critic Janet.

8  Ready [STEELED] - Not on-target enough. You can be ready for something
without being steeled for it. Steeling suggests filling oneself with resolution
or determination. New clue: Girded.

10  Stabilizing lab supply [AGAR] - Agar, as a stabilizer and thickener in food
products, is used much more in kitchens than in labs. New clue: Stabilizing
kitchen supply.

12  Modern way to lose [PALEO DIET] - First, the primary purpose of the Paleo
diet is to eat in a healthy way, not to lose weight. Second, clues about diets
that mention "losing" have gotten old. New clue: Faddish food regimen.

13  Paragon of ease, in Italy [UNO DUE TRE] - Cute, but it's not clear that
"One, two, three" has the same usage in Italy as it does here. New clue: Italian
count? (which has been used twice before in The Times, in one wording or
another, but long-enough ago, I think, to be used again).

14  Great white, say [MANSLAYER] - Too vague. New clue: Murderer.

23  Dr. ___ (nemesis of the Fantastic Four) [DOOM] - Good, except for the word
"nemesis," which, strictly speaking, means "a formidable and usually victorious
opponent." Since Dr. Doom is not usually victorious in the comic books, we
changed "nemesis" to "archenemy."

27  Holder of some wheels [PARTY TRAY] - Too vague. New clue: Caterer's
preparation.

28  Iago or Cassio, e.g. [OPERA ROLE] - Kind of mean, because Iago and Cassio
are much better known from Shakespeare than opera. New clue (still deceptive):
Figaro, e.g.

29  Ones with recess appointments? [PLAYMATES] - Stretchy, but Joel and I liked
it. And there is a question mark. So we kept it.

32  Result of extreme volatility [COUP D'ETAT] - Too vague, and not very
interesting. New clue (all Joel's, by the way): Power outage?

36  Queen's complaint [YOWL] - Too remote. What queen is this? New clue:
Caterwaul.

39  Soft French cheese named after the crown prince [DAUPHIN] - The French
cheese seems to be quite obscure. It's not listed in most dictionaries, so that
part of the clue was not particularly helpful. New clue: Heir apparent of a
French king.

43  Part of a recurring Eastwood ensemble [SERAPE] - Nice, but vague. We made
the clue more specific: Wear for Clint Eastwood in "The Good, the Bad and the
Ugly."

48  Cyber Monday activity [ETAIL] - Nice, and relatively timely. We kept it.

49  Where Deer Isle and Moose River are located [MAINE] - As the population of
Moose River, Me., is 218, according to the 2010 census, this seemed too obscure
a reference, even if the town's name does scream "Maine." New clue: Home for
Deer Isle and Moosehead Lake.

50  Dock who claimed to throw a no-hitter on LSD [ELLIS] - First, it wasn't
clear to me if the name was Dock Ellis or Ellis Dock. I wanted to clear this up
for anyone who doesn't know. Second, the verb tense seemed off. And third, I
thought a little more information would give the answer context. New clue: Dock
___, Pirate who claimed to have thrown a no-hitter on LSD.

54  "What's in ___ Head" (children's board game) [NED'S] - Too obscure. This
game gets fewer than 7,000 hits on Google. Also, fwiw, names of games don't get
quote marks in The Times. New clue: "___ Declassified" (old Nickelodeon show).

--

Well, there you have it. Feel free to quibble over some of Joel's and my
changes. I hope, though, that you think the edits as a whole are an improvement.
Btw, almost all the clues not discussed above are Kevin's and Ian's. Joel and I
are big fans of them both.

Constructors' Notes:

Kevin Der: Working with collaborators lately has been great fun. Ian's puzzle
sense and high standards with skill to match are helpful assets when it comes to
co-writing a themeless. We had originally guessed this grid would be run on a
Friday.

Will's notes about the clue editing are fascinating. Receiving feedback this
detailed is a somewhat uncommon opportunity, so for at least constructors it's
just gold. When it comes to writing difficult clues, I've found it can be hard
to grasp the difference between misdirection and vagueness, and a number of the
comments indeed relate to clues deemed overly vague.

Ian Livengood: Kevin is a rare triple threat in the game: fill, clues, themes.
He's equally skilled with all of them. That's his awesome 1A answer/clue combo.
So naturally it was a blast to collaborate.

Several marquee entries got scooped before this was published, so apologies if
you've already seen entries like PALEO DIET and IPAD MINI in grids. Also, glad
to see my clues for 30D and 56A made the cut!

Hope solvers like it!

Your thoughts?

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 21, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Millennials Get a Cyber Voice

BYLINE: By VALERIYA SAFRONOVA

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1123 words


On a recent day, the feed of a Tumblr blog called Black Culture featured a
drawing of Lupita Nyong'o, a video of a protest at William Paterson University
and a text that read, ''black lives > white feelings.'' The blog FreeQuency
Frequently Writes posted a Tweet from Solange Knowles decrying depictions of
outspoken women, while another called Soul Revision turned up a post with the
hashtags #SeasonOfInconvenience and #BlackLivesMatter.

As protests sparked by a grand jury's decision not to indict Darren Wilson began
spreading nationwide, furor was also growing in cyberspace, in the
social-justice halls of Tumblr, a social-blogging platform dominated by users in
their teens, 20s and early 30s. Their feeds were vivid mash-ups of articles,
GIFs, cleverly labeled images, court documents, smartphone videos, stickers and
cartoons, and their posts contained news about Ferguson, along with tidbits
about identity, inequality, police abuse, racism, body shaming and more.

''A lot of millennials have been discouraged for a long time,'' said Zellie
Thomas, 30, creator of Black Culture. ''Now, with social media, they feel
empowered, like people are hearing their voice. And Tumblr is a great platform
for all types of media.''

There are more than 215 million blogs on Tumblr and, according to comScore, an
analytics company, 50 percent of Tumblr users are from 15 to 34 years old. The
company's internal surveys show that 64 percent of users say that they care
about social causes and look into them on Tumblr. These numbers suggest that
millennials, who have long been pigeonholed as an apathetic bunch, have a strong
interest in social issues -- it's just hidden from the eyes of their elders.

On Facebook and Twitter, users tend to engage with people they know, while on
Tumblr, they connect based on themes and interests. Because of the anonymity it
allows and the variety of media it can host, Tumblr gives young people a chance
to experiment with different personas, many of which might not match the ones
their friends and family are familiar with.

''You can create your own identity via Tumblr,'' said Moya Bailey, 31, a
postdoctoral fellow at Northeastern University in women's studies and digital
humanities. ''I see many more diverse images on Tumblr than I see anywhere else.
It's one of the few places where I see fat people, trans women and trans women
of color who are celebrated.''

The cyber social-justice movement is always brewing on Tumblr, and it picks up
steam when shocking news hits the country or when protests take place offline.
On Dec. 4, when a jury decided not to indict in the Eric Garner case, Tumblr
experienced what Liba Rubenstein, director of social impact and public policy at
Tumblr, called ''extreme peaks'' in the use of the ''social justice'' and
''black lives matter'' tags.

''Tumblr is kind of like a gateway drug for activism,'' said Philip Howard, 44,
the principal investigator at the Digital Activism Research Project at the
University of Washington. ''Once you connect to other people who feel strongly
about race or crime or gay marriage, you stay engaged on that one issue area.''

Because Tumblr allows users to post anything from a video to a Tweet, and
because reblogging a post is as easy as two clicks, Tumblr is an ideal dumping
ground for media that might not easily coexist on Facebook or Twitter. ''So much
of activism is driven by digital artifacts like a video or a photo of someone
beaten up by cops, and Tumblr helps people post and repost these,'' Mr. Howard
said.

The platform's capacity to spread messages quickly is key, said Kim Moore, 29,
creator of Soul Revision. Ms. Moore turned to Tumblr to raise awareness of
social issues. ''I thought this would be a good place to branch out more,'' she
said. ''I went on Tumblr and never left.''

Mwende Katwiwa, 23, creator of the FreeQuency Frequently Writes Tumblr and a
community organizer offline, thinks Tumblr has helped create new opportunities
for engagement. ''The last national movement in the black community didn't have
access to social media like this,'' Ms. Katwiwa said. ''Without those retweets
and reposts, we wouldn't still be talking about Trayvon Martin.''

Ms. Bailey said that many people describe what they do on Tumblr as getting an
education on topics that aren't explored deeply in standard school textbooks,
like African-American history or colonialism. Similarly, Mr. Howard, whose
Research Project devotes time to measuring the success of digital movements,
said that while many online campaigns don't force changes in public policy, they
keep stories in the news and help expose people to new sources of information.

But whether passion on Tumblr translates into participation in the real world is
up for debate. Ms. Katwiwa described a time when she used Tumblr to promote a
protest in New Orleans. She was disappointed when of the thousand or so people
who promised to show up, only 400 materialized. ''One fault of social media is
that it has people thinking that's all you have to do,'' she said. ''I think
it's a tool in a toolbox. It should be used in conjunction with ground-level
activism.''

Ms. Moore, on the other hand, recalled organizing a moment of silence in San
Diego after Michael Brown was killed. Nearly 400 people attended the event -- a
number that's large for the small and conservative San Diego, Ms. Moore said --
and many others followed up with emails asking to participate in the future. ''I
was blown away at how engaged and how passionate people can be on Tumblr,'' she
said.

An emotionally difficult downside of using Tumblr is the negative responses
activists receive from commenters. As part of her thesis project at Wayne State
University, Amanda Levitt, 29, creator of Fat Body Politics, collected
disparaging comments from a blog she moderates, This Is Thin Privilege.

She saved a total of 4,200 negative comments, some of them suggesting she should
die. There were points at which the messages overwhelmed Ms. Levitt and she took
breaks from using the platform, but she always returned. ''A lot of people I
enjoy talking with are online so it's hard not being in that space,'' she said.

Mr. Thomas shares the sentiment. ''Activists online deal with a lot of hate and
death threats, and very vicious attacks,'' he said. ''It's something a lot of us
have to try to ignore. And it's still worth it.''

While online attacks may be unpleasant, Mr. Howard suggested that they are a
part of contemporary political engagement and can help activists develop a
psychological armor. ''We all make mistakes with whatever media is new to us,''
he said. ''It's part of contemporary growing pains. Each generation has had to
learn what activism means for them.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/21/style/millennials-and-the-age-of-tumblr-activi
sm.html

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The social-justice movement is always brewing on Tumblr, where
users exchange views and organize demonstrations. Above, a ''die-in'' in
Clayton, Mo., last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST12)

 Young demonstrators  on the steps of the  Pennsylvania State  Capitol in
Harrisburg  this month during the  Black Lives Matter  ''die-in,'' protesting
police abuses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ROBINSON/THE PATRIOT NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED
PRESS) (ST13)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 21, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

China Is Asked to Help Block Korea Hacking

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, NICOLE PERLROTH and ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1345 words


WASHINGTON --  The Obama administration has sought China's help in recent days
in blocking North Korea's ability to launch cyberattacks, the first steps toward
the ''proportional response'' President Obama vowed to make the North pay for
the assault on Sony Pictures -- and as part of a campaign to issue a broader
warning against future hacking, according to senior administration officials.

''What we are looking for is a blocking action, something that would cripple
their efforts to carry out attacks,'' one official said.

So far, the Chinese have not responded. Their cooperation would be critical,
since virtually all of North Korea's telecommunications run through
Chinese-operated networks.

It is unclear that China would choose to help, given tensions over computer
security between Washington and Beijing since the Justice Department in May
indicted five hackers working for the Chinese military on charges of stealing
sensitive information from American companies.

The secret approach to China comes as American officials, convening a half-dozen
meetings in the White House Situation Room last week, including one of the top
national security team on Thursday night, have been developing options to give
to the president during his vacation in Hawaii. They include new economic
sanctions, mirroring those recently placed on Russian oligarchs and officials
close to President Vladimir V. Putin, which would cut off their access to cash
-- the one perk that allows the elite surrounding Kim Jong-un, the North Korean
leader, to live lifestyles their starving countrymen can barely imagine.

The sessions also included discussions of ''information operations'' directed at
the North Korean people, officials said, but similar efforts by South Korea to
sway opinion in the North have often created a furious backlash.

As part of the administration effort to plan a response to the first major,
state-sponsored destructive computer-network attacks on American soil, the
president has asked the military's Cyber Command, which is led by the same
four-star admiral who directs the National Security Agency, to come up with a
range of offensive options that could be directed at North Korea.

For now, the White House appears to have declined to consider what one Defense
Department official termed ''a demonstration strike'' in cyberspace, which could
have included targets such as North Korean military facilities, computer network
servers and communications networks.

One obvious potential target is Yongbyon, the center of North Korea's nuclear
program, where the state has invested huge sums to produce plutonium and uranium
fuel for its small arsenal of nuclear weapons. Because of its geographic and
technological isolation, Yongbyon is considered a far harder target to attack
than were Iran's nuclear facilities, the subject of an American cyberoperation
code-named Olympic Games.

The administration's restraint grows out of a concern over the risk of
escalation with North Korea, since the United States has far more vulnerable
targets, from its power grid to its financial markets, than North Korea.

''There are a lot of constraints on us, because we live in a giant glass
house,'' said one official involved in the high-level debates. The official said
the challenge was to find a mix of actions that ''the North Koreans will
notice'' but that will not be so public that Mr. Kim's government loses face and
feels compelled to respond.

Several administration officials said the White House woke up late to the
growing confrontation with North Korea, with senior officials not realizing at
first the scope and long-term implications of the attacks on Sony for its plans
for a Christmas Day release of ''The Interview,'' a crude comedy built around a
far-fetched C.I.A. plot to have two bumbling journalists assassinate the young
North Korean leader. But by last week, the combination of the destructive attack
on Sony's computers and the threat of attacks on moviegoers at any theater that
showed the film sent the administration scrambling for a response.

In interviews over the past two days, officials said the president's decision
was to have the United States directly accuse the North Korean government -- a
public naming of the perpetrators that went beyond previous American criticism.
Then the president, in his year-end news conference, cast Mr. Kim as an insecure
leader so weak that he could be provoked by an outlandish satire, even while Mr.
Obama castigated Sony Pictures for giving in to intimidation by withdrawing the
film.

The attacks on Sony appear to have been routed through China and then conducted
through servers in Singapore, Thailand and Bolivia. Each of the countries,
officials said, had been contacted in an effort to cut off access for the
hackers.

But the key is China. United States officials said that American efforts to
block North Korea's access to the Internet, which is available only to the
military and the elite, would necessarily impinge on Chinese sovereignty. But
they also saw in the confrontation a chance to work with the Chinese on a
subject the two countries have been warily discussing for several years:
Establishing ''rules of the road'' for acceptable behavior in cyberspace.

By some accounts, what the administration is trying to create is a computer
equivalent to the Proliferation Security Initiative, an effort begun in the Bush
administration, also aimed squarely at North Korea, to stop the shipment of
nuclear materials and other weaponry. But in cyberspace that is a far harder
task, since it is easier for the North Koreans to reroute computer code at
lightning speed than to reroute a cargo ship carrying missiles.

Any financial sanctions also are tricky. The North is under perhaps the heaviest
sanctions on earth. Yet the one sanction in the past decade that caused the most
pain to the North Korean leadership was the freezing of its accounts at a small
bank in Macau, which held the money the North Korean leadership uses to buy
luxury goods -- and serves as an escape route if officials need to leave the
country.

Even if Mr. Obama was ready to respond with a cyberattack, it would not be
instantaneous.

''One of the things people often overlook is the complexity and time it takes to
launch an attack,'' said Oren Falkowitz, a former analyst at the National
Security Agency who now runs Area 1, a security company based in Menlo Park,
Calif. ''Most attacks take hundreds of days, if not years, to plan. People often
want to move quickly, but they forget a lot of legwork must be done.''

In the past, other countries have resorted to basic distributed
denial-of-service attacks, in which hackers flood a target's systems with
Internet traffic until they collapse under the load. But unlike systems in the
United States, very little of North Korea's network infrastructure is connected
to the global Internet. The result, Mr. Falkowitz says, is that a similar
denial-of-service attack on the North would amount to ''ankle biting.''

Tom Kellermann, a former member of the presidential commission on cybersecurity,
said one option was what security experts refer to as a ''hack back,'' in which
they use the attackers' own computer footprints and back doors to deploy an
attack that destroys North Korea's attack infrastructure, or compromises the
integrity of the machines that did the hacking. For example, the United States
could deploy a malicious payload that encrypts the data on North Korea's
machines, or renders them unable to reboot -- clearly ''proportional,'' in the
president's words, because that was what happened to Sony's computers.

But attack tools can be swapped out, and by destroying attackers' systems, the
United States would lose its ability to monitor them for future attacks.

Mr. Kellermann predicted a campaign of information warfare, in which the United
States plays on North Korea's worst fears by using its access to the North
Korean domestic computer and radio systems to deploy propaganda inside North
Korea's closed media bubble.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/21/world/asia/us-asks-china-to-help-rein-in-korea
n-hackers.html

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers removing a banner for ''The Interview'' from a billboard
in Hollywood after Sony canceled the movie's release. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL
THURSTON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A24)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                           December 23, 2014 Tuesday

The Need for Bank Cyberinsurance

BYLINE: RICHARD BEALES

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 457 words



HIGHLIGHT: In the wake of this summer&#8217;s attack on JPMorgan Chase, the
market for insurance against computer breaches is growing. That will help, but
companies still need to invest in cyberprotection and detection, says Richard
Beales of Reuters Breakingviews.


A high-profile hack at JPMorgan  Chase - to say nothing of monstrous breaches at
Sony and Home Depot - has made cybersecurity a daily concern for executives at
big banks and corporations. One partial protection is to take out insurance.
It's a confusing market, but growing fast. With a United States government
campaign on top of all the publicity, coverage may become standard.

The recent break into the internal email servers of Sony Pictures and the
subsequent WikiLeaks-like data dump, stated by the F.B.I. to be the work of
North Korean hackers opposed to a comedy depicting the assassination of the
North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, may prove costly as well as embarrassing. But
the Japanese conglomerate already knows that the failure to secure personal data
can be expensive: it shelled out $171 million to cover a 2011 breach of its
PlayStation Network.

Yet that pales beside the possible fallout for a big bank like JPMorgan, which
suffered a hack potentially exposing certain data for up to 83 million accounts.
That's where the government is focusing its efforts, with a Treasury official in
December publicly urging banks to get insurance.

There are dozens of underwriters offering cyber-related cover. It's a market on
track to double in 2014, to $2 billion of gross premiums in the United States,
according to Marsh & McLennan. The frequency of relevant events ticked up
sharply last year to about 10 times the rate a decade ago, according to Advisen,
a provider of data and analytics to insurers. Yet there are also dozens of
different structures and definitions of insurance on offer.

That's where efforts by the banks and Washington may combine to create a bigger,
more standardized market for cyberinsurance. That would provide financial cover
for at least some of the liabilities arising from hacks. And if the criteria for
getting insurance include demonstrating a base level of what Treasury Deputy
Secretary Sarah Bloom Raskin called "cyber-hygiene" then it may also improve
security, to a point.

But the bad guys are always going to be a step ahead. While governments no doubt
want banks to have insurance, part of the motivation may also be to avoid ending
up on the hook - just as the Feds have become for terror risks under the
Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, which Congress failed to extend before the end of
its last session of 2014.

The message to banks and insurers may be to get together and figure out
coverage. But the companies involved still need to invest in cyberprotection and
detection. Whether from North Korea or elsewhere, the threat will only increase
in the coming year.

Richard Beales is assistant editor for Reuters Breakingviews. For more
independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 24, 2014 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Countering Cyberattacks Without a Playbook

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1157 words


WASHINGTON -- For years now, the Obama administration has warned of the risks of
a ''cyber-Pearl Harbor,'' a nightmare attack that takes out America's power
grids and cellphone networks and looks like the opening battle in a full-scale
digital war.

Such predictions go back at least 20 years, and perhaps that day will come. But
over the past week, a far more immediate scenario has come into focus, first on
the back lots of Sony Pictures and then in back-to-back strategy sessions in the
White House Situation Room: a shadow war of nearly constant, low-level digital
conflict, somewhere in the netherworld between what President Obama called
''cybervandalism'' and what others might call digital terrorism.

In that murky world, the attacks are carefully calibrated to be well short of
war. The attackers are hard to identify with certainty, and the evidence cannot
be made public. The counterstrike, if there is one, is equally hard to discern
and often unsatisfying. The damage is largely economic and psychological.
Deterrence is hard to establish. And because there are no international treaties
or norms about how to use digital weapons -- indeed, no acknowledgment by the
United States government that it has ever used them itself -- there are no rules
about how to fight this kind of conflict.

''Until now, we've been pretty ad hoc in figuring out what's an annoyance and
what's an attack,'' James Lewis, a cyberexpert at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, said last week. ''If there's a lesson from this, it's
that we're long overdue'' for a national discussion about how to respond to
cyberattacks -- and how to use America's own growing, if unacknowledged, arsenal
of digital weaponry.

All those issues have been swirling in the background in the drama of North
Korea's effort to intimidate Sony Pictures, and the retaliation by the United
States -- if that was the case -- against one of its oldest Cold War
adversaries. ''If you had told me that it would take a Seth Rogen movie to get
our government to really confront these issues, I would have said you are
crazy,'' one senior defense official said a few days ago, referring to the Sony
Pictures film ''The Interview.'' ''But then again, this whole thing has been
crazy.''

With Tuesday's announcement that ''The Interview,'' a crude and poorly reviewed
comedy about a C.I.A. effort to hire two bumbling journalists to knock off Kim
Jong-un, the North Korean leader, will be shown in a limited number of theaters,
it is very possible that this confrontation with the least predictable of the
nine nations possessing nuclear weapons may not yet be over.

Like most cyberattacks, it started with a simple question: Who did it? But this
was no ordinary effort to steal credit card data, like what happened at Target
and Home Depot. What made the attack on Sony different was its destructive
nature. By some accounts, it wiped out roughly two-thirds of the studio's
computer systems and servers -- one of the most destructive cyberattacks on
American soil.

It took three weeks for Mr. Obama to take the extraordinarily rare step of
publicly identifying North Korea, and its leadership, as the culprit. And even
now, the F.B.I. refuses to release much of its evidence, presumably because it
could reveal the degree to which the United States had penetrated North Korea's
networks and the Chinese systems through which they are routed. The president's
decision to also mention the Chinese during a news conference last week in which
he responded to the Sony attack was ''itself part of the effort to create some
deterrence,'' one administration official said, ''by making it clear we can cut
through the fog.''

But because the government will not make the evidence public, there will be
doubters.

''The N.S.A. has been trying to eavesdrop on North Korea's government
communications since the Korean War, and it's reasonable to assume that its
analysts are in pretty deep,'' Bruce Schneier, one of the country's leading
cyberexperts, wrote in The Atlantic, referring to the National Security Agency.
''The agency might have intelligence on the planning process for the hack. It
might, say, have phone calls discussing the project, weekly PowerPoint status
reports, or even Kim Jong-un's sign-off on the plan.''

''On the other hand, maybe not,'' he wrote. ''I could have written the same
thing about Iraq's weapons-of-mass-destruction program.''

But Washington's declaration that North Korea was the source came paired with
Mr. Obama's warning of a ''proportionate response.'' Within days, North Korean
Internet connections sputtered and went dead -- and after briefly reviving, they
were out again on Tuesday.

An American attack? Did the Chinese pull the plug? Did the North Koreans take
themselves offline to protect themselves? No one in Washington will say. But it
is possible that to deter future attacks, the administration was not looking for
subtlety. Instead, it might have simply wanted to remind Mr. Kim that the United
States is training 6,000 ''cyberwarriors'' among its military units, and they
all have North Korea's Internet Protocol address.

Still, if North Korea did bear the brunt of an American counterstrike -- a
significant ''if'' -- it will most likely prove more symbolic than anything else
and serve to remind Mr. Kim that his family has miscalculated before.

In the summer of 1950, gambling that the Americans were too distracted to
respond, the founder of the country, Kim Il-sung, invaded the South. It turned
out he was wrong, and the devastating three-year conflict that followed ruined
his nation. But, improbably, it left him and his family in power.

Over the past two years, his grandson -- who has tailored his appearance to
closely resemble the North's revered Great Leader, who died 20 years ago -- has
embraced digital weapons precisely because they are far more subtle than sending
troops over the 38th Parallel. In fact, cyberweapons are perfect for a failing
state. Unlike North Korea's small arsenal of six to 12 nuclear weapons, they can
be used without risking an annihilating response. Unlike North Korea's missile
fleet, they are uncannily accurate. Just ask Sony, which is still trying to
figure out whether its attackers had inside knowledge or just got lucky.

But that leaves Mr. Obama with a ''short of war'' conundrum. How much American
power should be deployed to stop a cybervandal from becoming a cyberterrorist?

Until the past week, the president's temptation has been to refrain from
responding at all. But the combination of the destructive attack, the effort to
silence American criticism of a brutal regime and the threats of attacks on
American theaters made this one different.

The mystery now is whether the young, untested Mr. Kim will back off, or
whether, like his grandfather, he will push ahead, figuring that an
unpredictable North Korea has kept enemies at bay for six decades, and that his
new weapon may extend the streak.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/24/world/asia/countering-cyberattacks-without-a-p
laybook.html

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Posters for ''The Interview'' in Los Angeles. The film was held
after theaters received threats. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY
IMAGES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 202 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 30, 2014 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sounds That Lingered: Critics' Top 10 Concerts

BYLINE: By JON PARELES, JON CARAMANICA, BEN RATLIFF and NATE CHINEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 2531 words


A critic's year leaves memories, some fonder than others. Here, in order of
preference, are pop and jazz standouts.

JON PARELES

STEVIE WONDER Madison Square Garden, Nov. 6. The lavish, sprawling ambition of
Stevie Wonder's 1976 album, ''Songs in the Key of Life,'' hasn't grown dated in
38 years. Mr. Wonder brought more than two dozen musicians to recreate his
omnibus of American music and led them joyfully and tearfully, opening up the
songs to savor their best grooves and deepest lessons.

MOOGFEST Asheville, N.C., April 23 through 27. It wasn't a single concert, but
in a way Moogfest was one unified five-day phenomenon: a utopia of geekdom,
celebrating the beauty, expressiveness and irritant value of unnatural sounds.
Inventors demonstrated new instruments more responsive than a violin. Concerts
encompassed somber Minimalism, abstract noise barrages, drum-machine hip-hop,
jump-cutting D.J. sets, four-hour ''durational performances'' and electropop
hitmakers. And if Nile Rodgers's very hands-on, minimally synthetic Chic
happened to be a favorite headliner -- well, even outliers need outliers.

THE KNIFE Terminal 5, May 1. The Knife's 2013 album, ''Shaking the Habitual,''
had a clinical, cyber-primitive flavor. But its 2014 tour -- billed as its last
-- inverted the mood completely. The show choreographed about a dozen smiling
people onstage in shiny garments: playing percussion, striking formations,
dancing and waving like a high school musical from some ''Star Trek'' planet. It
traded the cerebral for the physical, the somber for the silly.

STROMAE Best Buy Theater, June 20. The Belgian songwriter Stromae sang, danced,
rapped and charmed a crowd that was largely familiar with his many European pop
hits, which are savvy about hip-hop, cabaret, dance club music and
Parisian-flavored Afropop. But only French speakers (or those who sought
translations) got the full point of songs about economic pressures, absent
fathers and the futility of love.

ST. VINCENT Terminal 5, Feb. 26. Cool control in the service of far-out ideas
was the methodology of St. Vincent's 2014 tour, staging new songs that often
ponder the human-virtual interface. Annie Clark, the singer, songwriter and
guitar virtuoso known as St. Vincent, made it her ''Ziggy Stardust"/"Aladdin
Sane'' moment: wearing visiting-alien costumes and making precise robotic moves,
while her voice and her onslaughts of guitar shredding attested to her humanity.

MAHMOUD AHMED Pioneer Works, July 26. A concert quickly turned into a dance
party for the Ethiopian singer Mahmoud Ahmed, 73. He got a rock star's screaming
welcome from a crowd with enough Amharic speakers to join in loudly for the
choruses of his hits. With a band punching out modal Ethiopian grooves, he was a
soul man, singing about love and reaching for the ecstatic.

BOB DYLAN Beacon Theater, Nov. 28. For a year, Bob Dylan's live set has been a
nearly unchanging group of 19 bleak, rootsy, implacable songs, most of them
released since 1996, that suit his ravaged voice and find no hope in humankind
and little more in love. He finished the concert with a devout hymn of apology,
''Stay With Me,'' previously recorded by Frank Sinatra -- a final glimpse of
redemption.

MARIA RITA City Winery, Feb. 2. The Brazilian singer Maria Rita sang a modest
and exquisite concert, accompanied only by a pianist, Tiago Costa, who kept the
arrangements transparent as her voice spanned delicacy, teasing and smoldering
intensity. The set concluded with songs from a repertoire she had long been
reluctant to visit, that of a great Brazilian singer who died young, Elis
Regina: Maria Rita's mother.

THE ROOTS Public Theater, May 13. To introduce their album ''... and then you
shoot your cousin'' -- a bitter reflection on poverty, African-American history,
self-destructive cycles and God -- the Roots filled the Anspacher Theater space
at the Public with enigmatic tableaus and cultural allusions. Nooses hung
overhead, balloon animals exploded underfoot, and the music encompassed
turntables, a string quartet and free jazz -- sometimes head-scratching, often
soulful.

THE REPLACEMENTS/THE HOLD STEADY/DEER TICK Forest Hills Stadium, Sept. 19. Paul
Westerberg has been touring with the reconstituted Replacements (original
bassist, two sidemen) since 2013. By the time the band reached New York City, it
could have been some routine oldies act exploiting its tuneful, self-sabotaging
1980s glory. It wasn't; it was erratic, raucous, yearning, funny and
triumphantly heartfelt by the end, buoyed by a wildly supportive crowd.

BEN RATLIFF

OOIOO Le Poisson Rouge, July 20. Very little is unoriginal about OOIOO, a group
led by Yoshimi, also of the Boredoms. Last summer, playing music from a new
album, ''Gamel,'' the group took the form of a guitar band encircling gamelan
percussionists and played through-composed, largely imaginary folk music. It had
wobbly grooves and organized chants; it was determined, fresh and joyful.

ALLMAN BROTHERS Beacon Theater, Oct. 28. Oh, it might not be the last gig
they'll ever play. But they announced it as such and played as if it were: about
four hours of music over three sets, elegantly paced, finely detailed, loose and
unified.

ORNETTE COLEMAN ''Celebrate Ornette,'' Prospect Park, Brooklyn, June 12. The
unforgettable stretch of a complex tribute concert to a saxophonist and cultural
liberator -- with strong performances by Joe Lovano and Geri Allen, among dozens
of others -- was supplied by Mr. Coleman himself, frail and luminous at 84,
playing a kind of pre- or para-blues into the night air, in his own speed, key
and tonality.

KATE BUSH Eventim Apollo, London, Aug. 26. It was a bit like a Pink Floyd show
in an intimate, midsize theater: actors, films, puppets, a simulated helicopter.
But this English singer's first concert in 35 years didn't use special effects
as a crutch -- she was up to the task, with old hits and idiosyncratic suites.

KAMASI WASHINGTON AND THE NEXT STEP Sayers Club, Los Angeles, April 15. A young
Los Angeles-based jazz saxophonist and composer, with a tight and high-impact
10-piece band: dense, ambitious scrimmages of sound, streaked with funk and
gospel.

RYOJI IKEDA Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Oct. 18.
Some of ''superposition,'' this Japanese musical and visual artist's Conceptual
piece about mathematics versus the unknowable, was hard to understand. Here's
what was clear to all: cold data in the service of warm worry -- and Mr. Ikeda's
strict, beautiful, high-contrast vocabulary of digital sound and design.

ABDULLAH IBRAHIM, Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, Oct. 20. From
this South African jazz pianist and composer, a generous retrospective of a
singular imagination: swinging large-ensemble music; deep solo meditations;
light and spacious gospel and chamber music.

NELLIE MCKAY, 54 Below, Aug. 6. For five nights -- will it happen again? -- this
singer and pianist put on ''A Girl Named Bill,'' a revue-with-dialogue about
Billy Tipton, the little-known midcentury jazz bandleader, who was assumed to be
a man but was discovered at his death to be a woman. Under deceptively ragged
humor and a wildly broad repertory illuminating various angles of the story --
by Jelly Roll Morton, Yoko Ono, Cindy Walker and Ms. McKay herself -- lay a
devastating theme: how, and why, to live with secrets.

CLARK SISTERS, McDonald's Gospelfest, Prudential Center, Newark, May 10. A
half-hour demolition job, more or less, from a great vocal group that connects
current gospel to '70s soul and understands performance as ecstatic
transference.

HENRY THREADGILL AND ZOOID Village Vanguard, July 29. Mr. Threadgill's new music
with his acoustic band, Zooid, can be brambly and opaque. Or like this set: full
of suspense and dramatic tension, and wise, abrupt solos by this bandleader on
alto saxophone and flute.

JON CARAMANICA

LORDE Roseland Ballroom, March 10. At the time of this show, barely a year had
passed since Lorde and her Gothic anticapitalist trip-hop had been birthed onto
the Internet. By this point, sure, she was a star (and a Grammy winner), but
this furious concert showed her also to be a fully formed aesthetic, a
hellacious thunderstorm, an undeniable movement, a bright beacon of hope dressed
in sinister black.

RAE SREMMURD, FATHER & ILOVEMAKONNEN S.O.B.'s, Oct. 21. The shape of tomorrow's
Southern rap, madcap and colorful and rowdy. At this CMJ Music Marathon
showcase, Rae Sremmurd was the headliner, with one bionic anthem after the next
(including a guest turn by iLoveMakonnen and his corner-boy ooze), but he was
almost outshone by the insular post-trap absurdism of Father.

POSSESSED BY PAUL JAMES Pendarvis Farm, Happy Valley, Ore., Aug. 1. At the
Pickathon festival, where the best artists look as if they'd been whittled from
the surrounding woods, this singer performed in a tiny barn. Sweating intensely,
and with every muscle straining, he played religiously intense folk without the
religion, in between tales of teaching music to special-education students.

DRAKE VS. LIL WAYNE PNC Bank Arts Center, Holmdel, N.J., Aug. 26. Work around
someone for a long enough time, and you get to know that person's strengths,
weaknesses, tics: The members of great duos both enhance and poke at each other.
So it went with these two, a mentor-protégé pair turned clashing titans for the
purpose of this tour, which doubled as a hip-hop bro-comedy revue.

THESTAND4RD S.O.B.'s, Nov. 9. The New York debut of the ghost-soul Internet star
Spooky Black came as part of this show by his extended crew, thestand4rd. And
while he's the group's only etherealist, its disparate approaches -- backpack
rap, art-soul and more -- jelled expertly.

'FAREWELL 285 KENT' 285 Kent, Jan. 19. This not-really-converted warehouse
concert space went out much as it came in -- smoky and moist and teeming with
bands destined to move beyond spaces like this. The final show at 285 concluded
with an exhausting set by a Canadian punk band (led by Damian Abraham) with, on
the one hand, an unpublishable name, but on the other, a totally wholesome ethos
of emotional forthrightness: a perfect fit for this night.

LUKE BRYAN & LEE BRICE Madison Square Garden, Jan. 25. A lesson in modern
country excess by Luke Bryan, the genre's party boy in chief, who approached
this show like a hip-hop star of the early 2000s: big trucks, big beats, more
dancing than you might expect. The opener was Lee Brice, a stoic brute who
threatened to erupt with feeling at any moment.

BEYONCÉ & JAY Z Sun Life Stadium, Miami Gardens, Fla., June 25. Given the
tabloid intrigue that afflicted this couple a few weeks before this stadium tour
opener, the show qualified as a few hours of very public marriage counseling.
Beyoncé was a flamboyant general, Jay Z was casually cool, and together they
showed how two like-minded artists -- like-minded people, even -- can sometimes
have very little in common while making it all work seamlessly.

ROMEO SANTOS Yankee Stadium, July 12. Romeo Santos, the man who carries modern
bachata on his back, held a master class here -- not just in the music, which
was feather-light and pulpy, but also in how to keep a crowd of this size on its
toes. No one -- except maybe Derek Jeter -- is more comfortable in this
building.

DMX Barclays Center, Oct. 16, and 50 CENT MetLife Stadium, East Rutherford,
N.J., June 1. Two examples of how a small part of a long show can do all of the
important work, and make you forget about the filler that came before and after.
At Def Jam 30, DMX was in prime messianic form, growling and stomping as if time
hadn't been unkind to him. At Hot 97 Summer Jam, 50 Cent returned after a
decade's banishment and picked up where he left off, with gangster-party anthems
and an onstage rumble.

EXTRAMUSICAL HONORABLE MENTIONS The vogue dancers who strutted the catwalk while
MikeQ spun ballroom house at Bounce Ballroom at Brooklyn Night Bazaar; a lecture
on techno's futurist politics and modern terror states by Mad Mike Banks of
Underground Resistance at MoMA PS1; 15,000 people doing the Shmoney dance along
with Bobby Shmurda at Powerhouse 2014 at the Barclays Center.

NATE CHINEN

THE XX Park Avenue Armory, March 19. The fraught interiority of the xx's music
found an almost perfect expression in this stark but dynamic staging that
suggested a meditation on distance and scale (and scarcity, at least where
tickets were concerned). In an age of ballooning pop spectacle, here was an act
of spectacular compression, one that served both to illuminate the songs and to
interrogate their premise.

STEVE LEHMAN OCTET The Stone, Jan. 15. Just before recording its mind-bending
second release, ''Mise en Abîme'' (Pi), this next-level postbop crew settled in
for a week at the Stone. And Mr. Lehman, an audacious alto saxophonist and
composer, made opening night feel like a space launch, balancing rhythmic
volatility and tonal intrigue.

NEIL YOUNG Carnegie Hall, Jan. 6. In his first of four solo acoustic concerts at
Carnegie Hall, Mr. Young made himself gloriously at home, cutting a figure of
sharp conscience and wry truculence as he foraged through his catalog. In style
and substance, it was all deeply familiar but the furthest thing from
complacent.

KIRK LIGHTSEY QUARTET Village Vanguard, Sept. 23. A fixture of New York's piano
rooms of yore, Kirk Lightsey turned his official stateside return into a brisk
renewal of purpose. With colleagues like the bassist Rufus Reid, he imbued the
week's opening set with a sort of buoyancy that didn't used to be quite so rare.

MARY HALVORSON Le Poisson Rouge, May 1. Opening for the Nels Cline Singers, Ms.
Halvorson brought just her hollow-body guitar and a few effects pedals, but her
set ranged far and wide, advancing a solo-guitar dialect of watchful, ungainly
grace.

VIJAY IYER SEXTET Newport Jazz Festival, Aug. 3. He made some serious moves this
year, expanding his canvas. But Vijay Iyer, the conceptually dauntless
pianist-composer, also got down to brass tacks with longtime associates, in a
set of bracing fury.

CARIBOU Métropolis, Montreal, Nov. 10. Dance-music euphoria melded with art-rock
blurriness in Caribou's live show, largely revolving around music from ''Our
Love'' (Merge). Dan Snaith's designs as an electronic producer opened up and
breathed, morphing in ways that felt attuned to the pulse of a clamoring crowd.

JULIAN LAGE TRIO Jazz Standard, July 16. Julian Lage, a jazz guitarist of
formidable fluency, used this occasion to break in a new trio, with the bassist
Scott Colley and the drummer Kenny Wollesen. Their rapport, lean and pliable,
held all manner of promise.

JENNY SCHEINMAN Le Poisson Rouge, June 30. Ms. Scheinman, an improvising
violinist, drew here from ''The Littlest Prisoner'' (Sony Masterworks), a
singer-songwriter album of plain assurance. In performance, she gave her songs
deeper heft and hue, with vital help from Brian Blade on drums and vocals and
Bill Frisell on guitar.

JANELLE MONÁE Celebrate Brooklyn!, June 4. Ms. Monáe's retro-futurist funk revue
couldn't have found a better home than the Prospect Park Bandshell on an evening
in early summer. The reception, like the singing and dancing, was irrepressible.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/30/arts/music/best-concerts-of-2014-beyonc-lorde-
st-vincent-romeo-santos-and-more.html

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Among the highlights of the year were, top, Jay Z and Beyoncé,
in the news offstage as well as on, performing in Miami Gardens, Fla., in June
above left, Amélie Grould and Stéphane Garin in Ryoji Ikeda's ''superposition,''
at the Metropolitan Museum in October
and above right, Moogfest, in April. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES
RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
MIKE BELLEME FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Romy Madley Croft of the xx at the  Park Avenue Armory in March. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company
