
                               1 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 8, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stopping North Korea's Nuclear Threat

BYLINE: By VICTOR CHA and ROBERT L. GALLUCCI.

Victor Cha, a professor at Georgetown, was deputy head of the American
delegation that negotiated the six-party talks with North Korea from 2005-7.
Robert L. Gallucci, also a professor at Georgetown, led the American delegation
that negotiated the ''agreed framework'' with North Korea in 1994.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 884 words


yDURING nuclear negotiations in 2005, a North Korean diplomat let slip an
unexpectedly candid comment, offering valuable insight into his government's
nuclear policy: ''The reason you attacked Afghanistan is because they don't have
nukes. And look at what happened to Libya. That is why we will never give up
ours.''

North Korea conducted its fourth nuclear test on Wednesday, claiming that it had
detonated a hydrogen bomb. The United States government disputes that, but one
thing is clear: North Korea's leaders still believe that nuclear weapons will
prevent others from attacking them no matter what they do. This is fanciful.
What the world needs is reality. North Korea must recognize the limitations and
risks of its nuclear program, and the United States must recognize that an
American response is necessary.

Many serious dangers come with being a nuclear power, and the North Koreans seem
to recognize few of them. One is the temptation to transfer weapons, fissile
material or technology to other states or terrorist groups. North Korea has a
history of selling its traditional weapons systems. But the government must
recognize that selling its nuclear technology could compel the United States to
respond in ways that would bring an end to nearly 70 years of Communist rule.

There are other ways that the nuclear program makes the government less secure.
Over the past several years, North Korea has degraded its conventional military
capacity in order to pursue nuclear weapons. Under normal circumstances, a
weaker North Korean Army would be welcome news to the rest of the world, but
with a budding nuclear state it can lead to rapid escalation in the event of a
conflict. This could mean either pre-emptive action by the United States, or, if
North Korea ever used nuclear weapons, a massive retaliation.

The North also mistakenly believes that its nascent nuclear abilities will deter
the United States and South Korea from responding if North Korean forces carry
out low-level military actions intended to extort food, fuel or other benefits.
It is wrong. South Korea and the United States are unlikely to remain passive in
response to future violence like the 2010 sinking of a South Korean naval ship.

The Obama administration cannot punt to the next administration the problem of
North Korea's growing stockpiles of fissile material, sophisticated weapons
designs and long-range delivery ability.

No one should take comfort in skepticism about whether Wednesday's test was a
success. If North Korea's burgeoning nuclear weapons stockpile leads it to
miscalculate American resolve, there will be horrible consequences. And at that
point the whole world will wonder why no nation -- especially the United States
-- stopped North Korea before it was too late.

A new approach to persuading the North to abandon its nuclear program must focus
on asymmetric pressure points. A look at recent history helps to outline such a
strategy. In our experience working on North Korea policy, the government in
Pyongyang has seemed truly caught off guard only twice: in September 2005 when
the Treasury Department's sanctions led to a freezing of its bank accounts in
Macau; and in February 2014 when a United Nations commission called for the
Security Council to refer the North's leadership to the International Criminal
Court for a long list of crimes against humanity.

The United States and the United Nations should immediately increase sanctions.
A new Security Council resolution will most likely emerge soon, providing one
opportunity for this. Another comes in the form of the presidential executive
order created after the cyber attack on Sony Pictures last year. These should
include targeted financial sanctions; travel bans and indictments against
officials working on the nuclear program, human rights abusers and cyber
criminals; as well as secondary sanctions on anyone doing business with North
Korean companies.

But sanctions are only one part of the strategy. Many observers believe,
credibly, that slave labor bankrolls the nuclear weapons program. The United
Nations must also continue to hold individuals in the government directly
accountable for crimes against humanity, and all countries, including China and
Russia, should be pressured to stop accepting North Korean laborers.

Even if China's government has made clear that it is unhappy with North Korea's
behavior, Beijing won't abandon its ally anytime soon. But the United States can
-- and should -- push for Beijing to dial back its support. China could instruct
Chinese companies to curtail business with North Korea, and the government could
reject any calls from North Korea for new economic projects until the government
returned to negotiations. China could also agree to not obstruct any Security
Council discussions on human rights abuses in the North. Washington must frame
cooperation on North Korea as a cornerstone of United States-China relations.

North Korea thinks that nuclear weapons make it more secure. That's wrong. North
Korea's only path away from isolation and insecurity will require negotiation on
all issues, including security, human rights and economics. In order to help it
understand this, the United States must use the nuclear test Wednesday to force
the North back to the table.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/08/opinion/stopping-north-koreas-nuclear-threat.h
tml

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 15, 2016 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Transcript: Preliminary Republican Presidential Debate

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Politics; Pg.

LENGTH: 8350 words


Following is a transcript of the preliminary Republican debate, as transcribed
by the Federal News Service.

ANNOUNCER: Tonight, the Republican candidates for president are looking to
capture their moment. South Carolina has a history of making and breaking
campaigns. And this week Charleston is the center of the political universe.
Three days from now, the Democrats will debate just a few miles away.

Here, in a city older than the country itself, from the Revolutionary War to the
Civil War, to the ''war by the shore,'' South Carolina prepares once again to
take center stage. And the Republican candidates all hope that the spotlight of
the Palmetto State would shine upon them.

(APPLAUSE)

TRISH REGAN, CO-MODERATOR: Good evening, and welcome to the North Charleston
Coliseum and Performing Arts Center. Tonight we hear from 10 Republican
candidates vying to become the next president of the United States.

I'm Trish Regan, along with my co-moderator Sandra Smith.

SANDRA SMITH, CO-MODERATOR: This evening FOX Business is bringing you the sixth
Republican presidential debate of the 2016 campaign. For the next hour, three of
the candidates will be answering the questions voters want answered.

REGAN: So let's introduce them. Former Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina.

(APPLAUSE)

REGAN: Former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee.

(APPLAUSE)

REGAN: And former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum.

(APPLAUSE)

SMITH: This debate will last one hour. Each candidate will have up to 90 seconds
to respond to each question, one minute for each follow-up.

REGAN: When your time is up, you are going to hear this bell.

(BELL RINGS)

REGAN: All right. So let's begin.

In Tuesday's State of the Union Address, the president said that our economy is
strong. He cited the significant decline we've seen in unemployment rate and the
millions of jobs that have been created.

What is your assessment of the economy right now? And I would like to hear from
all of you on this one, beginning with Ms. Fiorina.

CARLY FIORINA (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, thank you. Good evening. If I
may begin by saying how honored I am to be standing here with two former Iowa
Caucus winners.

Governor, Senator.

And how honored I am to be talking with all of you. You know, I'm not a
political insider. I haven't spent my lifetime running for office. The truth is
I have had and been blessed by a lot of opportunities to do a lot of things in
my life.

And unlike another woman in this race, I actually love spending time with my
husband.

(LAUGHTER)

(APPLAUSE)

FIORINA: I'm standing here because I think we have to restore a citizen
government in this country. I think we have to end crony capitalism. The crony
capitalism that starts with both Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton.

You know, Hillary Clinton sits inside government and rakes in millions, handing
out access and favors. And Donald Trump sits outside government and rakes in
billions buying people like Hillary Clinton.

The state of our economy is not strong. We have record numbers of men out of
work. We have record numbers of women living in poverty. We have young people
who no longer believe that the American dream applies to them.

We have working families whose wages have stagnated for decades, all while the
rich get richer, the powerful get more powerful, the wealthy and the
well-connected get more connected.

Citizens, it's time to take our country back.

(APPLAUSE)

SMITH: Governor Huckabee, same question to you. Where do you see the country
right now?

MIKE HUCKABEE (R), FORMER ARKANSAS GOVERNOR, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I wish I
saw the country in the same place that the president presented it to be the
other night in the State of the Union. He talked about how great the economy was
doing. And I guess for the people he hangs out with, it's probably doing great.

But the president should've stood in the line at the layaway counter at Walmart
just before Christmas. He would have heard a very different story about the
economy of America.

HUCKABEE: I wish I could introduce him the lady who cleans the building where
our campaign headquarters is located in Little Rock. Her name is Kathleen (ph).
She works all day at a local hospital cleaning, and then she goes to the
building where a bank, and our headquarters, and other offices are she spends
another seven hours. She works 15 hours a day.

I guarantee you she's not working 15 hours a day because she loves scrubbing
toilets, and sweeping floors. She's working that many hours because that's what
it takes for her to make it work.

And, she's not alone. There are people all over this country who are working
like that. Many of them working two jobs -- and they used to have one job, and
that would take care of them. But, because of wage stagnation, which we've had
for 40 years, because the fact that they're punished for working harder if they
work that many hours. The government gets more of their second shift than they
do.

And, as a result there are a lot of people who are hurting today. I wish the
President knew more of them. He might make a change in the economy and the way
he's managing it.

(APPLAUSE)

REGAN: Thank you Governor Huckabee. Senator Santorum?

SANTORUM: Well, all he has to do is listen to the Democratic debate and find out
how bad the economy is. All they do is complain about the hollowing out of the
middle of America, and how America is struggling so badly, and have to make
these radical changes in Washington.

But they've been in control for the last seven years, and what have we seen? The
most important jobs, I believe, in this country are the ones that fill the
middle. For the 74% of Americans who don't have a college degree between the age
of 25 and 65 are manufacturing jobs. Your governor, and your legislature, and
your team here have done an amazing job of bringing manufacturing jobs back to
South Carolina.

(APPLAUSE) (CHEERING)

SANTORUM: Right here. Right here in Charleston, right down in the street in
Boeing (ph). You've done a great job, and what's happened? You've grown this
economy, you've strengthened the center of your state, the middle. That's
because you know that if you're really going to create wealth and opportunity,
you got to get jobs, and good paying jobs for everybody.

And, so what's happened? Two million jobs, manufacturing jobs, have left this
country because of Barack Obama. Regulations, EPA, workplace regulations, things
driving people off-shore all because of his number one priority, global climate
change.

Well, let me tell you this, Mr. President. For every dollar of GDP, China
creates five times as much pollution as we do here. You want to -- lower global
climate change, bring those jobs back to America and let American workers do
that job with less pollution.

(APPLAUSE)

SMITH: Thank you, Senator Santorum. Thank you, candidates.

Moving to the world stage. The middle east is on the brink of chaos. Iran
continues to provoke the United States, North Korea claims it's tested a
hydrogen bomb, and Afghanistan is in danger of falling back into Taliban hands.
Critics of the administration say it's all due to lack of U.S. leadership.

To you, Mrs. Fiorina, how do you see America's role in the world today?

FIORINA: America must lead because when we do not lead, when this exceptional
nation does not lead, the world is more dangerous and a more tragic place.

Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, John Kerry, they all refuse to lead. Worse, they
refuse to respond when this nation is provoked. Hillary Clinton famously asked
what difference does it make how four Americans died in Benghazi?

Mrs. Clinton, here's what difference it makes. When you do not stand up and say
the truth, that this was a purposeful terrorist attack, when you do not say the
United States of America will retaliate for that attack, terrorists assume it's
open season.

We have refused to respond to every provocation. The President wouldn't even
mention the fact that Iran had taken two Navy boats and our sailors -- hostage.
He didn't mention the fact that they violated the Geneva convention. He didn't
respond to the fact that Iran launched two ballistic missile just a short time
ago, in direct violation of a deal they had just signed. We didn't respond to
the fact that North Korea attacked Sony Pictures.

When we refuse to respond over, and over to provocation and bad behavior, we
will get more provocation and bad behavior. I know most of our allies
personally. I have met many of our adversaries. I know our military and our
intelligence capability, and I know this. When we will not stand with our
allies, when we will not respond to our adversaries, when we do not lead in the
world the world is a dangerous and tragic place. I will be a Commander in Chief
who will lead.

(APPLAUSE)

REGAN: Thank you.

(APPLAUSE)

REGAN: Well, since we've been talking about the Middle East, Senator Santorum,
conflicts between Saudi Arabia and Iran have certainly escalated, amid
accusations that Saudi Arabia bombed the Iranian Embassy in Yemen after the
Saudi Embassy in Tehran was attacked.

As we confront an increasingly unstable Middle East, how will you, as president,
navigate this administration's promises to Iran while standing by our historic
allies in the region?

RICK SANTORUM (R-PA), FORMER SENATOR, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, the historic
promises that we have made to -- to Iran in this agreement need to be torn up on
the first day in office of the next president.

(APPLAUSE)

SANTORUM: And let me tell you why, because Iran has already torn it up. Iran has
not approved the agreement that President Obama has said that they have
approved. They have approved a different agreement in their parliament.

The fact of the matter is they have violated this agreement. Carly just
mentioned some of those violations.

They have launched ballistic missiles, tested them, in clear violation.

And here's the pathetic part. The president announced that they were going to
impose sanctions. And then President Rouhani went on Twitter and said there
would be retaliation.

And what did we do?

We backed down.

Ladies and gentlemen, there are 50 some Citadel cadets in this audience tonight.

(APPLAUSE) SANTORUM: I would ask them to stand up if they will. And here's what
I want to tell each and every one of them, as you stand. Here's what I want to
tell them.

(APPLAUSE)

SANTORUM: Whether it's you're watching that movie this weekend that just came
out when we abandoned our men and women in Benghazi, or whether it's we treat
Iran, that gave courtesies to our sailors, as they made them record a hostage
video, let me tell you this, if you choose to serve this country, I will have
your back. I will not let America be trampled upon anymore by these radical
jihadists.

REGAN: Thank you, Senator Santorum.

(APPLAUSE)

SMITH: Governor Huckabee, in Afghanistan, the Taliban is strengthening. Attacks
are on the rise and thousands more civilians have been wounded or killed. Much
of the Taliban surge can be attributed to the withdrawal of U.S. forces there.

You have expressed skepticism with the war there, saying you see no end game in
sight.

What, then, is your solution to the growing conflict there?

MIKE HUCKABEE (R-AK), FORMER GOVERNOR, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Let me put that
in context. When I went to Afghanistan, I saw a land that looked like the land
of the Flintstones. It was desolate. It was barren. It was primitive.

And it's been that way for thousands of years. They want to take the world back
to be just like that.

We don't.

We need to make a clear goal as to why we want to be anywhere in the Middle
East, and I'll tell you why we want to be and need to be, is to destroy radical
Islam and everything that threatens civilization. It's not just a threat...

(APPLAUSE)

HUCKABEE: -- to Israel or to America, it's a threat to every civilized person on
this Earth. And we need to be equipping not only the Kurds in Iraq, we need to
be making sure that those who are willing to fight radical Muslims will do it,
but we need to never ever spend a drop of American blood unless there is a
clearly defined goal and we can't make sure we win unless we have a military
that's the strongest in the history of mankind.

We've got to rebuild our navy. It's the smallest navy we've had since 1915, when
my grandfather got on a destroyer in World War I when he was in the U.S. Navy.
We've got young men in Air Force B-52s, one in particular, he's flying a B-52
that his father flew in the '80s and his grandfather flew in the '50s. Those
planes are older than me.

We've got to have a military that the world is afraid of, use it sparingly, but
when we do, the whole world will know that America is on their tail and they
will be on their tail on the ground, never ever to rise up again.

(APPLAUSE)

REGAN: Governor Huckabee, if I could just follow-up with that.

Do we need to be in Afghanistan?

HUCKABEE: Only if there is a concerted effort to destroy the advance of radical
Islamists who are against us. As far as what are we going to make it look like.
Frankly, I don't know what we can make it look like. You can't create for other
people a desire for freedom and democracy.

And frankly, that is not the role of the United States. The role of the United
States military is not to build schools, it is not to build bridges, it is not
to go around and pass out food packets.

It is to kill and destroy our enemy and make America safe and that is the
purpose we should be there if we're going to be there.

REGAN: Thank you Governor Huckabee.

(APPLAUSE)

REGAN: Ms. Fiorina, nearly 600 women say they were attacked in a German city on
New Year's Eve by men of Arab or North African descent and 45 percent of those
alleged attacks were sexual assaults. Twenty-two of those 32 men arrested so far
are asylum-seekers. Are you worried about similar problems in the United States?

FIORINA: Of course I'm worried about similar problems in the United States. We
can not allow refugees to enter this country unless we can adequately vet them
and we know we can't. Therefore we should stop allowing refugees into this
country.

(APPLAUSE)

FIORINA: And by the way, we do not need to be lectured about why we're angry and
frustrated and fearful because we've had an illegal immigration problem in this
country for 25 years.

(APPLAUSE)

FIORINA: And we have every right to be frustrated about the fact that
politicians stand up in election after election after election and promise us to
fix the problem and yet, it has never been fixed.

I offer leadership that understands that actions speak louder than words, that
results count. We must secure our border. We must fix our broken immigration
system. We must enforce a pro-American immigration system that serves our
interests, not the rest of the world. I understand what it takes to translate
goals into results and that is what I will do as president of the United States.
Of course, we should be worried, for heavens sakes.

This administration has now told us they don't know who has overstayed a visa.
This administration has told us they don't even bother to check Facebook or
Twitter to find out who's pledging allegiance to jihadis. We can do better than
this, citizens. We need to take our country back.

(APPLAUSE)

REGAN: I want to stay with you on this. The world shares a common enemy right
now in the way of ISIS. Russia, the European Union, Saudi Arabia, Iran, China,
we all agree ISIS is a threat and it must be stopped.

During World War II, the world partnered with Joseph Stalin, who was arguably
one of the most formidable -- despicable figures of the 20th century. But they
partnered with him to fight the Nazis.

Today, everyone seems to agree we need some kind of coalition to fight ISIS. Do
you agree with that? And if so, would your coalition include possibly, Russia
and Iran?

FIORINA: We need to be very clear-eyed now about who are our allies and who are
our adversaries. In the fight against ISIS, Saudi Arabia is our ally. Iran is
our adversary. And despite Donald trump's bromance with Vladmir Putin, Vladmir
Putin and Russia are our adversary. We can not...

(APPLAUSE)

FIORINA: We can not outsource leadership in the Middle East to Iran and Russia.
We must stand and lead. The Kuwaitis, the Jordanians, the Saudis, Egyptians,
Bahrainis (sic), the Emirates, the Kurds. I know virtually all of these nations
and their leaders. And they have asked us for very specific kinds of support:
bombs, material, arms, intelligence.

We are not providing any of it today. I will provide all of it. We have allies
who will stand up and help us deny ISIS territory, which is what we must do to
defeat them. We must deny them territory. They will help us do this. And yes, we
need a coalition.

But only in the United States of America can lead such a coalition. I will lead
it. But we must be clear-eyed through this fight. Iran is our adversary. Russia
is our adversary. We can never outsource our leadership. Only the United States
of America can lead to defeat ISIS. I will.

(APPLAUSE)

REGAN: Ms. Fiorina, thank you.

SMITH: All right, thank you, candidates. We're just getting started. Jobs,
Homeland Security, gun rights, all those issues are coming up straight ahead.
We're live from North Charleston and the Republican Presidential Debate. We'll
be right back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

(APPLAUSE)

REGAN: Welcome back, everyone, to the Republican presidential debate. On to the
next round of questions -- Sandra.

SMITH: All right, let's get started. Senator Santorum, to you first. President
Obama has urged technology leaders to make it hard for terrorists to use
technology to escape from justice. Hillary Clinton says social media companies
can help by swiftly shutting down terrorist accounts.

The companies say that they're already working with law enforcement and any
proposed legislation would do more harm than good. Should companies like
Facebook and Twitter be required by law to more actively -- be more actively
engaged in fighting terror?

SANTORUM: I would just say that if we were doing a better job within the
government, we wouldn't need the private sector to do the things that we're
asking them to do.

(APPLAUSE)

SANTORUM: I've had a little experience in this in the private sector myself. And
what I found was a government with layers and layers of bureaucracy, of people
who had some technical expertise but they had no authority, number one.

And one of the things I found out about in the bureaucracy is if a lot of people
have authority, nobody has authority, number one. And number two, that if you
don't do anything, you don't get fired.

It's only when you do something and something goes wrong, you get fired. So they
do nothing. And that's what is happening in our Defense Department right now. We
have a capability that they're trying to develop to play defense.

We have a lot of technologists that are very skilled. And they're trying to
figure out how to play defense. But what we don't have is we don't have folks
who are thinking about offense.

We don't have war-fighters. We have technologists. Technologists are not
war-fighters. Technologists are thinking, how do I protect cyber-security, how
do I secure, how do I protect?

SANTORUM: And we need to have a much more dynamic, how do we -- how do we go
after them?

How do we respond?

And we need leadership that's willing to make sure that when someone attacks us
-- and ladies and gentlemen, they're attacking us as we speak. They're attacking
us all day every day, not just the government, but they're attacking private
sector companies all day every day.

They have to learn that we're going to pay -- they're going to pay a price when
they do so.

And then right now, just like in every other aspect of our national security,
people who attack us are not paying a price. We need a leader who will make sure
that they know when they mess with America, they're going to pay a price.

SMITH: Senator, would you -- would you require anything of those companies like
Facebook and Twitter if you were president?

SANTORUM: Look, Facebook and Twitter can teach us things. We can cooperate with
them. We can share ideas and information. But this is a -- and this is a very
dicey area for the government to go in and require the industry to do its job.

It needs to develop that capability. We need to be -- have responsible dialogue,
but I don't think requirements are the order of the day.

SMITH: Thank you, Senator.

(APPLAUSE)

REGAN: Ms. Fiorina, the president has just issued an executive order to expand
the gun laws and background checks. And none of you on stage agree with this.

But recent polls show the majority of Americans are in favor of universal
background checks.

(BOOS)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Not in this room.

REGAN: It's the poll data.

(CROSSTALK)

FIORINA: And we all believe the polling data all the time, don't we?

REGAN: So tell me...

(APPLAUSE)

REGAN: -- why, in your view, is the president's proposal a problem?

FIORINA: Oh, it's a problem for so many reasons.

First of all, it is yet another lawless executive order. You see, he doesn't
like the fact that Congress has rejected his ideas twice on a bipartisan basis,
so he's decided he just gets to override them.

Sorry, Mr. President, not the way ''The Constitution'' works.

Secondly...

(APPLAUSE)

FIORINA: -- secondly, he basically admitted in that speech that he hasn't been
paying much attention to enforcing the laws we have. He said, gee, we need a few
more FBI agents. That would have helped, perhaps, stop a tragedy here in South
Carolina with Dylann Roof, a guy who clearly never should have been sold a gun.

In other words, Mr. President, you're right, we need to enforce the laws we
have. Let's enforce the laws we have. There are criminals running around with
guns who shouldn't have them. We don't prosecute any of them. Less than 1
percent.

But I want to go back to the technology issue for a moment, if I may, as well,
because in this regard, I disagree with Senator Santorum. Look, I come from the
technology industry and I can tell you there is one thing that bureaucracies
don't know how to do. They do not know how to innovate.

We have come seven generations of technology since 2011. We have bureaucracies
that are incapable of bringing in that innovation.

So, yes, there are some very specific things that we should ask the private
sector to help us with, including making sure we have the latest and greatest in
algorithms to search through all these databases so that we find terrorists
before they attack us, not after it's too late.

And, finally, when a president who understands technology in the Oval Office.
Mrs. Clinton, actually, you cannot wipe a server with a towel.

(APPLAUSE)

REGAN: Ms. Fiorina, you've said that was when you were CEO of HP, you actually
worked with the government.

FIORINA: Yes, and see...

REGAN: -- to try and combat some of these terrorist threats.

FIORINA: As CEO of Hewlett Packard...

REGAN: What did you do?

FIORINA: As CEO of Hewlett Packard, I was asked very specifically for some very
real help. The help I was asked to provide, this is now public information. So I
am not revealing what -- something that was -- was classified.

We had a very large shipment of equipment, software and hardware, headed to a
retail outlet. And I was called by the head of the NSA, who had an urgent need
for that capability, to begin laying out a program to track terrorists.

We turned that truck around on a highway and it was escorted to the headquarters
in San Jose.

In World War II, our government went to the private sector and said, help us do
things that we cannot do.

The private sector has capabilities that the government does not have. There are
some legal authorities that are required.

The Sony attack could have been detected and repelled, had legal authorities
been passed in Congress allowing private networks and public networks to work
together.

Those legal authorities have not yet been passed.

Yes, I was asked to help.

(RINGS BELL)

FIORINA: I know the technology industry. They will help again. But they must be
asked by a president who understands what they have.

REGAN: Ms. Fiorina, thank you.

(APPLAUSE)

SMITH: All right, Governor Huckabee, you called President Obama's executive
orders on gun control unconstitutional and completely insane.

(LAUGHTER)

(APPLAUSE)

HUCKABEE: (LAUGHING) Yes, I did.

SMITH: You even told gun store owners to ignore the President's orders.

(APPLAUSE)

SMITH: Yet, innocent people are dying from gun violence in cities like Detroit,
Chicago, and Charleston everyday. Is there anything that can be done at the
federal level to prevent guns from falling into the hands of criminals?

HUCKABEE: Well, why don't we start by making sure the Justice Department never
does an idiotic program like Fast and Furious where the U.S. Government put
guns...

(CHEERING)

HUCKABEE: ...in the hands of Mexican drug lords...

(APPLAUSE)

HUCKABEE: ...and end up killing one of our border agents. You know, they want to
talk about law abiding citizens, I just find it amazing the President keeps
saying the gun show loophole. There is no gun show loophole. I promise you I've
been to more gun shows than President Obama.

SMITH: (LAUGHING)

HUCKABEE: And, I've bought more weapons at them, and you fill out forms. The
President also says things that it's easier to get a gun now than it is to grow
trees. Again, I purchase guns, and I can assure you that it is much more
difficult to purchase a firearm than it is to get the ingredients of a salad at
the supermarket.

What the President keeps pushing are ideas that have never worked. Ideas that
would not have stopped San Bernadino, Sandy Hook, Aurora, and at some point you
wonder if you keep retrying things that don't work, maybe we should just see if
we could resell all those used lottery tickets that didn't work real well
because that's the logic of just keep doing the same thing, but something that
has failed. Of course, we want to stop gun violence, but the one common thing
that has happened in most mass shootings is that they happened in gun- free
zones where people who would have been law abiding citizens, who could have
stood up and at least tried to stop it and we're not allowed to under the law.

(APPLAUSE)

SMITH: Thank you, Governor Huckabee.

REGAN: Governor Huckabee, an American in San Bernardino murdered 14 people while
terrorists with Belgian and French passports murdered 130 people. Were facing a
threat within our borders, and from outside the United States. Those European
terrorists, they could have come here at any time given that we have a visa
waiver program that enables people to travel back and forth. It exists within
those countries, and 36 others.

In countries around the world, including many in Europe, cannot ensure that
their citizens are not jihadists, why are we waiving the visa requirement at
all?

HUCKABEE: Well, we shouldn't be and that's one of the reasons that I think there
a lot of voices in our country who are saying it's time to relook (ph) at the
visa program. The European Union is a failure, it's not allowed for even the
economic goals that they were trying to achieve.

But, what we're not seeing is that it's making Europe less safe, and it's proven
not to be exactly what they all thought it was going to be.

Our first and foremost responsibility in this country, and the first
responsibility of the President of the United States is protect America, and
protect Americans. We have a President who seems to be more interested in
protecting the reputation and image of Islam than he is protecting us. And, I
want to be very clear...

(APPLAUSE)

HUCKABEE: ...that this President.

(CHEERING)

HUCKABEE: Makes comments like he did the other night, that we have to be so
careful because we don't want to offend Muslims. He needs to read his own FBI
crime stats from last year which would show him that of the hate crimes in the
country, over 5,500, about 1,100 were religious hate crimes. And, of those, 58%
were directed toward Jews. Only 16% directed toward Muslims.

Maybe what the President should have talked about the other night is how we
ought to be more careful in the anti-semitic comments that are going toward
American Jews than toward Muslims because by three times as many...

(APPLAUSE)

HUCKABEE: ...they're being targeted for religious hate crime.

REGAN: If you get the visa waiver program, does that shut down international
commerce?

HUCKABEE: It does not shut down international commerce, but it may slow it down.
And, you don't want to slowdown commerce that is making us safer. It's worth it.
This lady who came and joined with the San Bernardino killer had passed three
background checks, and that's why a lot of Americans didn't buy it when the
President said we'll bring in Syrian refugees, but don't worry we'll check them
out.

We have a lot of confidence in a president who told us that we could keep our
doctor, we could keep our health insurance, and cost us less, and now the latest
is if you like your gun you can keep it too, and frankly, we don't buy it. We
don't believe it. He's lost his credibility, and his inept...

(APPLAUSE)

HUCKABEE: ...inability to work with Congress and pass legislation has led him to
do what I never even imagined doing as a governor, and that's just going and
doing it my own way.

MORE

HUCKABEE: That's why we elect a president, is to lead, is to be able to shepherd
things through. And if I can do it with a 90 percent Democrat legislature in
Arkansas, there is no excuse for any president not being able to lead in
Washington if he knows what the heck he is doing when he gets there.

(APPLAUSE)

REGAN: Thank you, Governor Huckabee.

SMITH: Senator Santorum, many of our military leaders believe America's critical
infrastructure is vulnerable to a terrorist attack. This is the power in our
homes, the water we drink, the Internet and phone systems by which we stay
connected.

If attacked, these essential services that underpin American society could come
to a grinding halt. Do you have a specific plan to protect us from this type of
attack?

SANTORUM: Well, the most devastating attack that could occur is an
electromagnetic pulse attack, and that would be an attack that would be
triggered by a nuclear explosion in the upper atmosphere of our country.

The best way to stop that from happening is to make sure that those who
contemplating and actually war-gaming and talking about using it, Iran, doesn't
get a nuclear weapon so they can't explode that device.

(APPLAUSE)

SANTORUM: And the president of the United States has put Iran on a path to a
nuclear weapon. And we have done nothing to do anything to harden our grid.
There is actually a bill in Congress that would put money forward to try to put
redundancy and harden our electric grid so it could actually survive an EMP.

An EMP is a devastating explosion that sends a pulse that knocks out all
electric, everything, everything that is connected to any kind -- that is wired,
that has a circuit board gets fried out. Everything is gone. Cars stop. Planes
fall out of the sky.

This is a devastating attack. And this president has done nothing, number one,
to take the most probable person to -- probable country to launch an attack and
stop them, and has done nothing to try to defend us, particularly our electric
grid. The bottom line is, I put the original sanctions on the Iranian nuclear
program when I was in the United States Senate. I've been fighting for 12 years
with one thing in mind, that we must stop Iran from getting a nuclear weapon.
And...

(APPLAUSE)

SANTORUM: Because they're different than every other country. They do not want a
nuclear weapon to defend themselves. They want a nuclear weapon to have
theological ends to bring about their mahdi so they can control the world. And
that is the most serious threat facing this country right now.

(APPLAUSE)

SMITH: Senator Santorum, I want to stay with you on this, moving to jobs and the
economy. In his State of the Union Address the other night, President Obama
touted his record on jobs, citing more than 14 million new jobs and boasted of
nearly 900,000 manufacturing jobs added in the past six years.

Do you dispute his track record of creating jobs?

SANTORUM: Well, the numbers just don't add up. I mean, they have not added
manufacturing jobs. Manufacturing jobs have been lost in this country, 2 million
of them. The bottom line is that this president has done more to take jobs away
from the hard-working people who are struggling the most.

And that's folks who are, as I said, the 74 percent of Americans who don't have
a college degree. And they're out there talking about, well, we're going to
provide free college for everybody. Well, who is going to pay for it? The 74
percent that don't have a college degree.

They're not -- nobody is focused. Let's just be honest, nobody is focused on the
people who are struggling the most in America today. We talk about immigration.
Talk about the president's immigration plan. He wants to bring in more and more
people into this country. Let people who are here illegally stay in this
country.

Almost all of the people who are here illegally, and most of the people who came
here legally over the last 20 years, they're working in wage-earning jobs. That
is why wages have flat-lined.

And we have unfortunately two political parties with most of the candidates in
this field for some form of amnesty, some form of allowing people to stay here
even though they're here illegally and for increasing levels of legal
immigration.

I'm someone who believes that we need to be the party that stands for the
American worker. And when we say we need to send people back, I mean we send
people back.

And let me just make one point. I was in Storm Lake, Iowa, the other day, near a
Tyson's plant, 91 percent of the kids that go to the elementary school there are
minority kids. And they said, well, what are you going to do with all of these
people, their families, they've lived here for a long time?

I said, I'm going to give them a gift. I'm going to give them a gift of being
able to help the country they were born in.

Merge adds XXX were born in.

SANTORUM: And I'm going to export America, the education they were able to see.
They learned English language. They learned about capitalism. They learned about
democracy. You want to stop flow of immigrants?

Let's send six million Mexicans, Hondurans, Guatemalans, El Savadorians...

(BELL RINGS)

... back into their country, so they can start a renaissance in their country so
they won't be coming over here anymore.

(APPLAUSE)

REGAN: Senator Santorum, thank you.

SMITH: Governor Huckabee, former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Admiral Mike
Mullen, has said the greatest threat to our security is our national debt.

Our national debt is now on pace to top $19 trillion. Yet, you as well as Ms.
Fiorina have laid forward no plan to reform entitlements. How can you say you're
going to pay down our country's debt without cutting Social Security or
Medicare?

HUCKABEE: Well, first of all, let's just remember that Social Security is not
the government's money, it belongs to the people who had it taken out of their
checks involuntarily their entire working lives.

(APPLAUSE)

HUCKABEE: For the government to say, well it is fault of working people that we
have a Social Security problem, no. It is the fault of a government that used
those people's money for something other than protecting those people's
accounts. So let's not blame them and punish them.

(APPLAUSE)

HUCKABEE: But here is a fact, and I sometimes hear Republicans say well, we're
going to have to cut this and extend the age. You know what I think a lot of
times when I hear people say, well, let's make people work to their 70. That
sounds great for white-collar people who sat at a desk most of their lives. You
ever talk to somebody that stood on concrete floor for the first 40 years of
their working life? Do you think they can stand another five years or 10 years,
many of them will retired virtually crippled because they worked hard. And we're
going to punish them some more? I don't think so. Here's the fact.

(APPLAUSE)

HUCAKBEE: Four percent economic growth, we fully fund Social Security and
Medicare. Our problem is not that Social Security is just too generous to
seniors. It isn't. Our problem is that our politicians have not created the kind
of policies that would bring economic growth.

And I still support strongly that we get rid of the 77,000 pages of the
monstrous tax code...

(APPLAUSE)

HUCKABEE: ... pass the fair tax, supercharge this economy with the rocket fuel
that happens with the consumption tax and we don't have to cut Social Security
to any senior who has worked their lifetime for it.

(APPLAUSE)

REGAN: Thank you, Governor Huckabee.

SMITH: OK. We're going to continue this conversation. We're taking a quick break
and then coming up, the candidates' plans for strengthening the middle class.
We're live in North Charleston with the Republican Presidential Debate. We'll be
right back.

MORE

(APPLAUSE)

(COMMERICAL BREAK)

REGAN: Welcome back to the Republican presidential debate live from North
Charleston.

We want to jump right back in.

Sandra is kicking it off.

SMITH: All right, thanks, Trish.

Well, let's get started with Ms. Fiorina.

Today, the middle class represents about 50 percent of the U.S. population, down
from about 61 percent back in 1971. That's according to Pew Research. The same
research revealed a widening income gap in America. The rich getting richer and
the poor getting poorer.

What will you do to strengthen a middle class that is no longer the majority?

FIORINA: For decades, the professional political class in both parties has been
talking about the middle class. For decades, Republicans in particular have been
talking about reducing the size and scope of government, spending less money,
reducing the complexity.

And yet, for 40 years, the government has gotten bigger and more expensive.

We now have a 75,000 plus page tax code, although politicians have run for
office for decades promising reform. And all the while, middle class incomes
have stagnated.

You see, when government gets bigger and bigger, more powerful, the rich get
richer, the poor get poorer and the middle class gets squeezed.

We need to understand who the job creators are in this country, because we need
more jobs to grow the middle class and to grow the wages of the middle class.

Who creates jobs?

Small businesses, new businesses, family-owned businesses. (APPLAUSE)

FIORINA: They create two thirds of the new jobs in this country and they employ
half the people.

I started out typing for a nine person real estate firm. My husband Frank
started out driving a tow truck for a family-owned auto body shop. And we are
crushing small businesses and destroying the middle class.

So here's my blueprint to take back America. Let us first actually reform the
tax code from 73,000 pages down to three. There's a 20-year-old plan to do
exactly that.

And then let us begin piece by piece to focus on every single dollar the
government spends, so that we will spend less overall and still have enough for
our priorities. And that requires the government to budget the way you do at
home -- examine every dollar, cut any dollar, move any dollar. The fancy term
for that is zero- based budgeting, but I call it common sense.

Citizens, we've got to take our country back.

(APPLAUSE)

SMITH: Thank you, Ms. Fiorina.

(APPLAUSE)

REGAN: Governor Huckabee, you know it used to be you could graduate from high
school and get a pretty good job at the local factory, enough to take care of
your family and yourself. Those days seem to be gone. It's pretty hard to do
that nowadays.

Businesses are increasingly turning to automation to increase their productivity
levels. It's happening right here, in fact, at the Boeing factory in North
Charleston.

The president says automation threatens workers' ability to get higher wages.

Do you agree with that?

And if so, do you have a solution?

HUCKABEE: Let me go back to the reason so many people are having a hard time
getting ahead. The tax system punishes them.

Think about this. If you work really hard and you start moving up the economic
ladder, you get bumped into a different tax bracket. So the government thinks it
deserves more of your hard work than you do.

And it's one of the reasons that no matter how many different reforms you have
to a tax on people's productivity, you're still taxing their work, their
savings. You're taxing their capital gains, inheritance, dividends, you're
taxing everything that produces something.

And it's way I really believe it's time to do something bold, not something
minute. This is no time for a tap of the hammer, a twist of the screwdriver.
It's time for something big. That's why the fair tax transforms our economy.

(APPLAUSE)

HUCKABEE: And we don't punish workers. It's the only way we're going to get
middle class people moving ahead again, because the harder they work, the more
they keep. No payroll tax deducted from their checks. They get their entire
paycheck.

(APPLAUSE)

HUCKABEE: And, one of the most important parts, it's built on the common sense
with which we raised our kids, and trained dogs. You reward behavior you want
more of. And, you punish behavior you want less of. That's how I raise kids,
it's how I trained our dogs, and folks, it's not that difficult.

We now punish the behavior we say we want more of by taxing it, and we reward
the behavior that we say we want less of, so if you make a good investment, we
punish you with a tax. If you make a bad investment you can write that off and
the rest of the taxpayers will help subsidize you, and bail you out.

(APPLAUSE)

REGAN: Thank you very much, Governor Huckabee.

Senator Santorum, 40% of babies born today are born to single moms. That's twice
as high as reported back in 1980, and it's 11 times as high as in 1940. Studies
show that children are always better off economically, most often -- and
emotionally, with two parents in a household. From a policy perspective, should
the government be doing anything to encourage family formation?

SANTORUM: You know, we've had this debate about the economy, and we haven't
talked the one issue now increasingly even the right, and even the are coming to
agreement. I've run around doing 300 town hall meetings talking about a book
written by a liberal Harvard sociologist, not a normal thing for me to be
talking about, but I now name Robert Putnam who wrote a book called, ''Our
Kids''.

And, he wrote this book, I think, ostensibly to support the Democratic argument
that the middle of America's hollowing out, and income gap is widening, and rich
are getting richer. When he studied all the information as to what was going on,
he realized that the biggest reason that we're seeing the hollowing out of the
middle of America is the breakdown of the American family.

The reality is that if you're a single parent -- a child of a single parent, and
you grew up in a single parent family neighborhood, you went to that single
parent family school, the chance of you ever, ever reaching the top 20% of
income earners is 3% in America. At least -- I don't know about you, but that's
not good enough. And, we have been too politically correct in this country
because we don't want to offend anybody to fight for the lives of our children.
(APPLAUSE)

You want -- You want to be shocked? You read the first few chapters of Mr. --
Dr. Putnam' book. He talks about Port Clinton, Ohio and growing up there in the
1950's, and how poor kids actually survived and did well, even though they were
poor and disadvantaged. But, then he goes to the towns today and these kids are
failing, and failing miserably. They don't even have a shot, and we won't even
have the courage to have leadership at the federal level -- not with
legislation, but the most powerful tool a president have, the bully pulpit to
encourage each and everyone of you, churches and businesses, and educators, and
community leaders to let's have a national campaign to rebuild the American
family, and give every child its birthright which is a Mom and a Dad who loves
them.

That will change this economy.

(CHEERING & APPLAUSE)

REGAN: Thank you.

SMITH: Thank you, Senator.

We're not finished yet. More Republican Presidential Debate in North Charleston
after this.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

SMITH: Welcome back, it's time for the closing statements. Candidates will each
get one minute, starting with Senator Santorum.

Thank you very much, I want to thank the people of Charleston, which has become
a little bit of a second home to me, because I am very privileged to have two
young men who go to the Citadel here and they're here tonight, my son John and
my son Daniel.

(APPLAUSE)

SANTORUM: Ladies and gentlemen, America is frustrated and angry and looking for
someone who's a fighter, but I also think they're looking for someone who's a
winner. Somebody who can go out there and take on the establishment and make a
difference. And take on someone who's going to be the person who's going to be
between a Republican holding the presidency and that's Hillary Clinton.

And there's one person on this stage, one person in the race who's done it and
done it repeatedly. I've taken on Hillary Clinton on the issues you care about.
Partial-birth abortion.

Go and google Rick Santorum and Hillary Clinton and there you'll see a
five-minute debate. I'll let you decide who won the debate. I'll tell you who
won, because we passed the bill and I know I'm out of time but I'm going to take
some of Rand Paul's time here for a second.

(APPLAUSE)

SANTORUM: If you're looking for someone who fought Hillary Clinton on Iran's
sanctions, she was one of four who voted -- who's deciding vote who voted
against Iran's sanctions, so we didn't get it in place as earlier as we should
have.

I've fought battles against her. In 1994, I ran against the Clinton machine.
James Carville and Paul Begala, ran the race against me when I took on the
author of Hillary care.

And each one of those battles, I won. You want a fighter, you want a winner, I'd
appreciate your vote. Thank you.

(APPLAUSE)

SMITH: Thank you, Senator Santorum. Governor Mike Huckabee.

HUCAKBEE: Well, Rick, I'm pretty sure I did also fight the Clinton machine
because every election I was ever in in Arkansas, I assure you, they were behind
it, helping finance and campaign for every opponent.

And I share with you the understanding that it's going to be a tough battle. But
I spent the first half of my adult life in the private and nonprofit sector,
raising a family, understanding how tough it is for people to make it.

And that first half of my life is what led me to believe that America needs a
different kind of leadership, not people who spent their whole life running from
one office to the next, and living off the government dime. And I got involved
because I got sick of what I saw.

I also believe that there's got to be some leadership that not only addresses
the monetary and military issues of this country, but the moral issues of this
country. At the end of every political speech, most of us say, God bless
America.

But how can he do that when we continue to slaughter 4,000 babies a day?

(APPLAUSE)

HUCKABEE: And I want to be the president that treats every person, including the
unborn, as a person. And protect them under the 5th and 14th amendments of the
constitution. I close with this word from a gentleman in East Texas named Butel
Lucre (ph). He's 100 years old and I met him down in East Texas.

HUCKABEE: And he said this to me. ''I sure wish, Mike, we had the days when The
Ten Commandments were in all of our capitals and in every school, and we prayed
again.

You know, he may be 100 years old, but I believe some of those old ideas to get
this country back where we unapologetically get on our knees before we get on
our feet might be the best solutions we've ever sought as a country.

(APPLAUSE)

HUCKABEE: And I ask for your support and your vote.

Thank you.

(APPLAUSE)

SMITH: Thank you, Governor.

REGAN: Carly Fiorina?

FIORINA: My husband Frank, that I mentioned, I love spending time with. He's
down there. He was real excited the other day because in New Hampshire, he was
introduced as my eye candy.

(LAUGHTER)

FIORINA: You know, everybody out there watching knows this. You cannot wait to
see the debate between me and Hillary Clinton. You would pay to see that fight.

(APPLAUSE)

FIORINA: And that's because you know I will win. And that's important. We've got
to start by beating Hillary Clinton.

All of my life, I have been told to sit down and be quiet. Settle. Settle. Don't
challenge the system.

That's what the American people are being told now and we have been told that
for way too long -- sit down and be quiet about our God, about our guns, about
the abortion industry, settle for illegal immigration that's been a problem for
decades, as so many of our problems have festered for decades. Accept a system
of government and politics that no longer works for us.

I will not sit down and be quiet. And neither will you.

So I ask you to stand with me, fight with me, vote for me, citizens. It is time
to take our future back, time to take our politics back. It is time to take our
government back. Citizens, it is time. We must take our country back.

(APPLAUSE)

REGAN: Thank you to all the candidates.

(CROSSTALK)

REGAN: That does it, everyone for the first debate right here in North
Charleston.

In just about two hours from now, at 9:00 p.m. Eastern seven more candidates are
going to be taking to this stage.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/15/us/politics/transcript-preliminary-republican-
presidential-debate.html

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 25, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nuclear Cybersecurity: Why We Should Worry

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 423 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Nuclear Facilities in 20 Countries May Be Easy Targets for Cyberattacks''
(news article, Jan. 15):

The Nuclear Threat Initiative's security index rightly criticizes other
countries for failing to address the threat of cyberattack against their nuclear
facilities but overlooks the failings of our own country.

The report assigns the United States a perfect cybersecurity score, although the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission does not require nuclear fuel production
facilities, some possessing bomb-usable materials, to have comprehensive
programs to protect against cyberattack. The N.R.C. is working on such a rule,
but it may not be in place for years.

The Nuclear Energy Institute, the United States nuclear industry's chief trade
association, questions the need for such a requirement, maintaining that
voluntary industry efforts will suffice. The institute has also petitioned the
N.R.C. to weaken cybersecurity rules already on the books for nuclear power
plants.

The fourth Nuclear Security Summit, whose goal is to prevent nuclear terrorism,
will be held in Washington this spring. To improve its chances, the United
States should not just lecture other countries but also set an example.

EDWIN LYMAN

Senior Scientist

Union of Concerned Scientists

Washington

To the Editor:

Kudos to the Nuclear Threat Initiative for its 2016 nuclear security index. Your
article's emphasis on its cybersecurity findings, while valid, is skewed.

The lack of cybersecurity regulations is in fact a small piece of a larger
problem that the initiative notes. There are no internationally binding
standards or related regulations at all in nuclear security. Cyber is the tip of
an iceberg that is melting fast.

Nuclear facilities are exposed to risks -- from hackers to ISIS -- that were not
in our lexicon when many facilities were built. This lack of understanding of
new and emerging threats and corresponding underspending in security are
pervasive.

While cybersecurity is one area that needs addressing, we need an integrated
approach that considers all aspects of nuclear security and facility operations.
Overreliance on governments or intergovernmental institutions to solve these
problems will fall short.

Industry -- from operators to suppliers to insurers and financiers -- must be
part of the solution.

KATHRYN RAUHUT

DEBRA DECKER

Washington

The writers are with the Stimson Center's Managing Across Boundaries Initiative.
Ms. Rauhut is a nonresident fellow in Vienna, and Ms. Decker is a senior
adviser.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/25/opinion/nuclear-cybersecurity-why-we-should-wo
rry.html

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 31, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

When Locksmiths Pick Pockets

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3519 words


Maybe this has happened to you.

Locked out of your car or home, you pull out your phone and type ''locksmith''
into Google. Up pops a list of names, the most promising of which appear beneath
the paid ads, in space reserved for local service companies.

You might assume that the search engine's algorithm has instantly sifted through
the possibilities and presented those that are near you and that have earned
good customer reviews. Some listings will certainly fit that description. But
odds are good that your results include locksmiths that are not locksmiths at
all.

They are call centers -- often out of state, sometimes in a different country --
that use a high-tech ruse to trick Google into presenting them as physical
stores in your neighborhood. These operations, known as lead generators, or lead
gens for short, keep a group of poorly trained subcontractors on call. After
your details are forwarded, usually via text, one of those subcontractors jumps
in a car and heads to your vehicle or home. That is when the trouble starts.

The goal of lead gens is to wrest as much money as possible from every customer,
according to lawsuits. The typical approach is for a phone representative to
offer an estimate in the range of $35 to $90. On site, the subcontractor demands
three or four times that sum, often claiming that the work was more complicated
than expected. Most consumers simply blanch and pay up, in part because they are
eager to get into their homes or cars.

''It was very late, and it was very cold,'' said Anna Pietro, recalling an
evening last January when she called Allen Emergency, the nearest locksmith to
her home in a Dallas suburb, according to a Google Maps search on her iPhone.
''This guy shows up and says he needs to drill my door lock, which will cost
$350, about seven times the estimate I'd been given on the phone. And he
demanded cash.''

The phone number at Allen Emergency is now disconnected.

It is a classic bait-and-switch. And it has quietly become an epidemic in
America, among the fastest-growing sources of consumer complaints, according to
the Consumer Federation of America.

Lead gens have their deepest roots in locksmithing, but the model has migrated
to an array of services, including garage door repair, carpet cleaning, moving
and home security. Basically, they surface in any business where consumers need
someone in the vicinity to swing by and clean, fix, relocate or install
something.

''I'm not exaggerating when I say these guys have people in every large and
midsize city in the United States,'' said John Ware, an assistant United States
attorney in St. Louis, speaking of lead-gen locksmiths.

Many legitimate locksmiths contend that the solution should come not from law
enforcement but from Google. Google says that it is working on improvements, and
clearly the days are over when, as in 2009, a search for Manhattan locksmiths
yielded a map so covered in red location dots it that looked like a bad case of
the measles.

A Google spokesman said that the company worked hard to check bad actors and
quickly removed listings that violate its policies.

But the company is still too easily tricked into listing lead gens, high up,
even after years of redesigns and algorithm adjustments, critics say. Local
service results have improved of late, but too many consumers are still getting
ripped off because Google, the world's biggest search engine, is perennially a
step behind a group of sophisticated swindlers, according to experts in the
field.

''Google has been subpar on this,'' said Danny Sullivan, a founding editor of
the website Search Engine Land. ''When problems arise, they kind of deal with
them as they pop up, but they don't correct systemic flaws that are out there.''

The Ghosts on Google

The flaws in the Google machine are well known to Avi, an Israeli-born
locksmith, who asked that his last name be omitted from this story, citing
threats by competitors. (''One told me there is a bounty on my head,'' he said.)
Avi has been at war with lead-gen operators for eight years. It's like guerrilla
combat, because the companies are forever expanding and always innovating, he
said.

To demonstrate, he searched for ''locksmith'' in Google one afternoon in
November, as we sat in his living room in a suburb of Phoenix. One of the
companies in the results was called Locksmith Force.

The company's website at the time listed six physical locations, including a
pinkish, two-story building at 10275 West Santa Fe Drive, Sun City, Ariz. When
Avi looked up that address in Google Maps, he saw in the bottom left-hand corner
a street-view image of the same pinkish building at the end of a retail strip.

There seemed no reason to doubt that a pinkish building stood at 10275 West
Santa Fe Drive.

Avi was skeptical. ''That's about a five-minute drive from here,'' he said.

We jumped in his car. It wasn't long before the voice in his GPS announced,
''You have arrived.''

''That's the address,'' he said. He was pointing to a low white-brick wall that
ran beside a highway. There was no pinkish building and no stores. Other than a
large, featureless warehouse on the other side of the street, there was little
in sight.

''This is what I'm dealing with,'' Avi said. ''Ghosts.''

These ghosts don't just game search results. They dominate AdWords, Google's
paid advertising platform. Nearly all of those ads promise ''$19 service,'' or
thereabouts, a suspiciously low sum, given that ''locksmith''-related ads cost
about $30 or so per click, depending on the area.

(Yes, Google makes money every time a person clicks on an AdWords ad, and yes,
in the case of locksmiths, the cost can be $30 for every click -- even more in
some cities. If you've ever wondered how Google gives away services and is still
among the most profitable companies in the world, wonder no more. People
clicking AdWords generated $60 billion last year.)

In a search for locksmiths in Mountain View, Calif., home to Google's
headquarters, the first AdWords listing was 24hourlocksmithsanjose.net, which
offered $19 service. Research into the company's domain name revealed that it is
owned by Yossi Assraf of Locksmith Advertising, in Portland, Ore.

Mr. Assraf also owns more than 800 other domain names, according to the website
Whoisology, including 247westpalmbeach.com, 247locksmithlouisville.com,
247-locksmithcleveland.com, 247-locksmithjerseycity.com and so on.

Those have all the trappings of a lead gen. And, 247 Locksmith Advertising has
an F rating from the Better Business Bureau, along with a list of nearly
identical complaints.

''Over all the cost was $200!!'' wrote one unhappy customer, who had been
expecting to pay $19. ''This was a complete bait and switch!''

Messages left for Yossi Assraf were not returned.

Recently, I sent Google the ad for 24hourlocksmithsanjose, as well as a screen
shot of the fake Locksmith Force building and the names of about 20 other
locksmiths that appeared to be lead gens. The company asked for a few days to
look into the matter.

Pipeline From Israel

National data that could capture the scale of the lead-gen problem does not
exist, largely because most of the complaints occur at the state level, by way
of attorneys general, Better Business Bureaus and Yelp. Also, the sums involved
are usually modest, so many people have no idea they have been swindled, or they
know but don't think it's worth anyone's while to contact the authorities.

Legitimate companies and the Associated Locksmiths of America, however, have
been howling about lead gens since they first started popping up in the early
2000s.

''Talk to anyone in the business and they'll tell you that revenue is down 30 to
40 percent,'' said Mark Baldino, who owns a handful of locksmith stores in the
Washington area. ''There are 10 fake locations around me, and consumers have no
idea which of us is real and which is going to rip them off.''

The difference between people like Mr. Baldino and locksmiths sent by lead gens
is not just a physical storefront; excellent locksmiths work out of cars and
vans, too. Lead-gen locksmiths are essentially short-term hires, and their
priority is not repeat customers. It's quick cash.

Many of the locksmith lead gens are run by Israelis, and Avi learned their modus
operandi by working for them. When he landed at La Guardia Airport in 2008, he
wanted to work with computers, the field he had trained for in Israel. But it
was the height of the recession, and he did not have many options.

''At the time, if you were an Israeli, it was either carpet cleaning or
locksmithing,'' he said. ''I tried carpet cleaning for a week and hurt my back
so badly, I said this is not for me.''

A company in New Jersey, owned by an Israeli, hired him, gave him a week of
training and told him he could keep 40 percent of every job. His instructions
were to size up each customer and ask for as much money as possible. He quit,
found an honest shop, eventually earned enough to open his own company and
relocated to Phoenix.

Today, a well-oiled system keeps young Israelis flowing to the United States for
locksmith jobs. Companies beckon on Israeli employment websites such as Maka
(Hebrew for ''score''). Among those currently hiring are Green Locksmith,
Locksmith Garage, CT Locksmith and Mr. Locks. The latter, which claims its main
office is in TriBeCa, promises that employees will earn as much as $4,000 a
month and says it is looking for people ''who are not afraid of new things.''
Like many of these companies, Mr. Locks covers itself by stating -- in Hebrew
and on a site that caters to Israelis -- that it is looking for United States
citizens.

Many of the recruits later establish their own lead-gen operations, which then
recruit more talent. This has increased competition and made deceiving Google an
ever more esoteric pursuit. That was evident during a conversation with Roy
Alverado, the owner of Locksmith Force, the company that created the fake pink
building in Sun City. He insisted that he ran an authentic local business, with
trained and courteous locksmiths.

As for that fake building: ''We wanted to have a store in that area, but the
rents were too high,'' he said. He told a web design firm to create a building
using Photoshop. Actually, all but one of the buildings are Photoshop creations,
since Locksmith Force's sole physical location is in Phoenix, Mr. Alverado said.
The more buildings on the site, he candidly stated, the more people would
believe they were calling someone who could show up at a car or house quickly.

Mr. Alverado said those fake buildings were necessary because getting to the
first page in Google results now took ingenuity and cunning.

''You have no idea,'' he said, sounding a little weary when asked about
competition. Israelis were his toughest rivals, he said, and they had instilled
a kind of awe in him. ''I can tell you point-blank, they are freaking smart,''
he said. ''I really admire them.''

A few months ago, he decided that he needed some help with search engine
optimization. A company called Over the Top SEO showed up on the first page of
an ''SEO company'' search, so he figured it was very good. Then he saw that the
company was based in Israel. Mr. Alverado was sold. If he couldn't beat the
Israelis, he would hire them.

''We're already seeing great results,'' he said.

Gaming the Algorithm

Even with the rise of Facebook and improvements to Apple Maps, Google is still
the essential source of revenue for local businesses -- 85 percent of all local
search traffic reaches local businesses through Google, according to Mike
Blumenthal, who writes a definitive blog on the topic.

To understand how lead gens game Google's algorithm, you need to know a bit
about how a company's address winds up in Google's results, and how those
results can be fraudulently altered. Few know the particulars better than Bryan
Seely, who worked for a lead-gen outfit in the automotive glass repair field,
based in Southern California, from 2008 to 2010. During that time, he produced
about 3,000 fake auto glass repair listings across the country. Eventually
appalled by his handiwork, he became what he calls a reformed hacker and
explained his techniques in a self-published book, ''Cyber Fraud: The Web of
Lies.''

''My hope was that the book would cause Google to patch up these holes,'' he
said on the phone recently. ''It didn't work.''

In the interest of minimizing mischief, the methods Mr. Seely described will not
be detailed here. But they involve chicanery with two platforms: Google My
Business, essentially the company's version of the Yellow Pages, and Map Maker,
which is Google's crowdsourced online map of the world. The latter allows people
around the planet to log in to the system and input data about streets,
companies and points of interest.

Both Google My Business and Map Maker are a bit like Wikipedia, insofar as they
are largely built and maintained by millions of contributors. Keeping the system
open, with verification, gives countless businesses an invaluable online
presence. Google officials say that the system is so good that many local
companies do not bother building their own websites. Anyone who has ever
navigated using Google Maps knows the service is a technological wonder.

But the very quality that makes Google's systems accessible to companies that
want to be listed makes them vulnerable to pernicious meddling.

''This is what you get when you rely on crowdsourcing for all your 'up to date'
and 'relevant' local business content,'' Mr. Seely said. ''You get people who
contribute meaningful content, and you get people who abuse the system.''

The most obvious symptom of abuse is a wild proliferation of lead-gen listings.
Charles Eastwood, a locksmith in Phoenix, subpoenaed Acxiom, a data brokerage
firm, as part of a lawsuit he filed against a group of purported lead gens in
2010. He wanted to know how many locksmiths were listed in Arizona.

''There were 9,600 of them in the list I got from Acxiom,'' he said. ''That's
about 9,000 more than anyone believes actually work in the state.''

'A Five-Alarm Fire'

To fight lead gens, Google deploys a little-known army of volunteers, called
Mappers, many of whom are engaged in a contest that takes wit and stamina. These
are people around the world who propose and approve edits to Google Maps, with
an assist from Google employees, all in the interest of refining the product and
fighting spam -- a term that in this context means anything fake and misleading.

It may seem bizarre that people would work gratis for one of the world's richest
companies. But many Mappers turn the job into a calling. For Dan Austin, who
lives in Olympia, Wash., it was more like an addiction.

A former truck driver for DHL, he became a Mapper after he was laid off from his
job and started fixing mistakes he had noticed on Maps while on the road. By the
fall of 2011, Mr. Austin had discovered locksmith spam and was soon spending 10
hours a day, seven days a week, deleting it from Maps.

''It was like a video game except it had a moral element to it,'' he said. ''At
the end of the day, I'd have wiped out 1,000 locations and I would think, that's
1,000 phone calls that didn't get made, 1,000 consumers who didn't get scammed.
I felt like Superman.''

Mr. Austin became a Regional Lead, the highest rank in Google's Boy Scout-like
badge system of incentives, a job -- still unpaid -- that required him to sign a
nondisclosure agreement.

He was quickly locked in a struggle that seemed inspired by Cold War spycraft.
Some lead-gen owners became Mappers themselves, hoping to stealthily protect
their listings. They were essentially moles. One of them, who called himself
Baton Sason, contacted Mr. Austin through a private detective.

''At first, he thought I was another spammer,'' Mr. Austin recalled. When Mr.
Sason realized that Mr. Austin was truly on Google's side, he tried to win
amnesty for his sites in exchange for help informing on his competitors. Mr.
Austin played along for a few months, then deleted Mr. Sason's sites too.

Initially, Mr. Austin regarded Google as a benign Goliath that cared about
consumers and small businesses. But about 18 months after his campaign began,
pessimism crept in. He realized, he said, that spammers were changing tactics
much faster than Google was adopting countermeasures.

''For me, it was always like I was looking at a five-alarm fire,'' he said. ''To
them, it was smoldering.''

By the fall of 2012, Mr. Austin was disillusioned. He decided that the subtle
approach to getting attention wasn't working. So he did something obnoxious. In
the middle of the Google Map of Los Angeles, he placed a marijuana grow house.
Not a dispensary, which is legal. A grow house, which is a place where plants
are harvested. Those are illegal. Then he highlighted the stunt on a Map Maker
forum.

The plan was to demonstrate that it was too easy to hoodwink Google. The plan
failed. Google fired him from his unpaid job. (A Google spokesman declined to
comment.)

Today, Mr. Austin has the faintly bitter tone of a man who has left a cult, but
he is cleareyed about why Google never seemed to respond quickly enough to
spammers. It wasn't a priority, he said. The company is dominated by software
coders, and they want to solve the most interesting problems, or create the
coolest products.

''Fighting spam is boring,'' Mr. Austin said. ''The employees who cared didn't
have the political clout in the company. I'd hear Googlers say, 'Maps is a mess.
It's known at the highest levels, but we don't talk about it publicly.'''

Caught in an Arms Race

The justice system is the most obvious alternative to Google in the fight
against locksmith lead gens, and in 2009, federal prosecutors in St. Louis went
after three principals of Dependable Locks on charges of a variety of nationwide
frauds. This was the most ambitious action ever taken against a suspected lead
gen; postal inspectors had surprised the company by showing up at its
headquarters in Clearwater, Fla., with a search warrant. Files were confiscated,
employees were persuaded to tell all.

Little, it seems, went right after that. One defendant fled the country,
according to prosecutors. In 2013, a federal magistrate judge recommended
dismissing the case because the government had deported four witnesses, all of
them former Dependable employees who might have helped the defendants. The judge
also suggested that the case would be difficult for the prosecution to win
because Dependable phone representatives usually added the phrase ''and up''
when quoting prices.

One of the prosecutors, Mr. Ware, the assistant United States attorney in St.
Louis, respectfully disagreed with those findings.

''Ninety percent of people were charged more than the estimate,'' he said. ''We
had locksmiths tell us that they would take whatever they could get from
customers.''

One lesson of the Dependable case, which took years from inception to dismissal,
is that the criminal courts are a terrible way to fight purported lead-gen
locksmiths. Civil cases have fared no better. Mr. Baldino, the locksmith in
Washington area, lost a case against Google and other directories in which he
said the companies commingled legitimate and illegitimate players in listings.
Last February, a Virginia state court found that Google had immunity under the
Communications Decency Act, which extends to all information that does not
originate with Google -- ''even when given notice that it has published false
information,'' the court concluded.

Only Google, it seems, can fix Google. The company is trying, its
representatives say, by, among other things, removing fake information quickly
and providing a ''Report a Problem'' tool on the maps. After looking over the
fake Locksmith Force building, a bunch of other lead-gen advertisers in Phoenix
and that Mountain View operation with more than 800 websites, Google took
action.

Not only has the fake Locksmith Force building vanished from Google Maps, but
the company no longer turns up in a ''locksmith Phoenix'' search. At least not
in the first 20 pages. Nearly all the other spammy locksmiths pointed out to
Google have disappeared from results, too.

''We're in a constant arms race with local business spammers who, unfortunately,
use all sorts of tricks to try to game our system and who've been a thorn in the
Internet's side for over a decade,'' a Google spokesman wrote in an email. ''As
spammers change their techniques, we're continually working on new, better ways
to keep them off Google Search and Maps. There's work to do, and we want to keep
doing better.''

There was no mention of a stronger verification system or a beefed-up spam team
at Google. Without such systemic solutions, Google's critics say, the change to
local results will not rise even to the level of superficial.

Apprised that Locksmith Force had been relegated to the Internet's version of
oblivion, Avi was in no mood to celebrate.

''One down,'' he wrote in an email. ''Fifty thousand to go.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/31/business/fake-online-locksmiths-may-be-out-to-
pick-your-pocket-too.html

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A locksmith's shop on a street in Sun City, Ariz., left, turned
out to be a fiction that was created for the locksmith by a web design firm
using Photoshop at what is, in fact, a vacant lot, right. The Google image, from
November, has since been taken down.
Charles Eastwood, a Phoenix locksmith, below, subpoenaed a data brokerage firm
in a lawsuit he filed against an online group of purported locksmiths.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CAITLIN O'HARA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU4)
 Dan Austin, a former truck driver who held an unpaid job helping Google fix
mistakes on its maps, was fired after he placed a marijuana grow house on a map
of Los Angeles to show how easy it was to fool the search engine. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
MATTHEW RYAN WILLIAMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU5) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JULIA
YELLOW)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 31, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

What to Watch Sunday

BYLINE: By ALEC M. PRIESTER

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 506 words


Shia LaBeouf showed all of his movies at the Angelika Film Center in Manhattan
in November. You can stream one of them. Elsewhere, Vice reports on the battle
against the Islamic State, and ''60 Minutes'' investigates the increasing
popularity of the United States as a place for corrupt officials and foreigners
to stash money. And the search for Bigfoot trudges onward.

What's Streaming

DISTURBIA (2007) on iTunes. In this ''Rear Window'' reboot, directed by D. J.
Caruso, a high school student, Kale (Shia LaBeouf), becomes moody and agitated
after his father dies in a car crash. After punching a teacher, Kale is
sentenced to house arrest and spends his time watching television and playing
video games until his mother (Carrie-Anne Moss) pulls the plug on his
electronics. He then begins to spy on his neighbors with a video camera and
becomes suspicious of the guy living next door. '''Disturbia' will never be
accused of undue originality, but its adherence to genre conventions works in
its favor,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The Times. ''Instead of manufacturing
elaborate, ridiculous plot twists or imposing overwrought psychological
melodrama on a basically absurd premise, Mr. Caruso and the screenwriters,
Christopher Landon and Carl Ellsworth, opt for efficient, clever B-movie
execution. There are no big surprises, but the jumps and jolts are well timed.''

What's on TV

VICE SPECIAL REPORT: FIGHTING ISIS 10 p.m. on HBO. The journalist Ben Anderson
travels to three front lines with Iraqi fighters as they combat the Islamic
State. He meets Islamic State fighters in Kurdistan and members of the Russian
military in Syria. Dmitri A. Medvedev, the prime minister of Russia, and Ryan C.
Crocker, a former United States ambassador to Iraq, make interview appearances.

60 MINUTES 7 p.m. on CBS. The corruption watchdog NGO Global Witness sends an
investigator with a false foreign identity to see if United States lawyers will
help launder money of questionable provenance.

NORTH WOODS LAW 8 p.m. on Animal Planet. The Maine game wardens try to save a
baby skunk and look into the disappearance of an ATV.

UNUSUAL SUSPECTS 9 p.m. on Investigation Discovery. Law enforcement figures
discuss challenging cases, which often have surprising culprits. This episode
focuses on a murderer evading police in North Carolina.

SHAMELESS 9 p.m. on Showtime. The Gallagher family soldiers on. Fiona struggles
with a house in foreclosure. Ian bakes cookies for firefighters.

THE GOOD WIFE 9 p.m. on CBS. Alicia and Judge Schakowsky argue over a wrongful
imprisonment. Diane helps a student journalist defend politically charged
writing.

EVIL LIVES HERE 10 p.m. on Investigation Discovery. This show profiles people
who unwittingly lived with murderers.

CSI: CYBER 10 p.m. on CBS. The team hunts for the hacker whose virus is
infecting cellphones. A text leads to a meeting.

FINDING BIGFOOT 10 p.m. on Animal Planet. Technology has added new dimensions to
cryptozoology. Here, the search for Bigfoot involves drones with infrared
cameras.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/31/arts/television/what-to-watch-sunday.html

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE TENNER/PARAMOUNT PICTURES
JACKSON FAGER/HBO
 PARRISH LEWIS/SHOWTIME)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 1, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Terror Threats Thaw Budgets Across Europe

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN; Nicola Clark contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1257 words


PARIS --  A phalanx of soldiers wearing bulletproof vests and wielding machine
guns fanned out beneath the Eiffel Tower on a recent afternoon, scanning the
crowd for potential terrorist threats. Across the country, nearly 10,000 more
armed troops patrolled streets around landmarks, stores and government
buildings.

France is spending nearly 1 million euros a day on the heightened security, part
of a renewed surge in European military spending as governments declare
terrorism a permanent risk.

Europe's current approach to fighting terrorism, after two deadly assaults
carried out by Islamic militants in Paris last year, represents a shift from the
austerity mantra that has dominated the region since the debt crisis in 2010.
While countries are not abandoning their fiscal discipline, leaders are
encouraging a more flexible approach, to give them financial firepower to
counter the growing threat.

''We need to track the terrorists, dismantle their networks, cut off their
financing and stop propaganda and radicalization,'' President François Hollande
said recently, after declaring France ''at war'' with terrorism. ''The security
pact takes precedence over the stability pact,'' he added, referring to the
European Union's rules limiting member nations' deficits.

Although austerity has been losing favor as a cure-all for Europe's economic
ills, a renewed financial crisis in Greece last year kept a focus on
belt-tightening. European leaders threatened to let Greece exit the currency
bloc if it did not stick with the budget cuts and economic overhauls required
for a new bailout. European Union officials admonished France and other
countries for failing to meet deficit reduction pledges.

Now, European leaders are acknowledging that security spending is a priority.
After the attacks by the Islamic State in November in Paris that left 130 dead,
the president of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, authorized France
to receive special treatment under budget deficit rules to strengthen security
programs.

''We are facing serious terrorist acts,'' he said. ''France, as other countries,
has to have at its disposal supplementary means.''

The spending has the potential to provide a much-needed stimulus boost to a
region that has struggled for years to kick-start growth.

France, Germany, Britain and neighboring countries sharply curbed military
outlays while austerity was enforced. Since 2007, Western European military
spending has slumped more than 13 percent, accelerating a decline that began
earlier in the decade. As of last year, only four European member countries in
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization met the mandated military spending target
of 2 percent of gross domestic product.

As security concerns intensify, the trend is reversing.

Germany is hiring more police and intelligence officers, and in January the
defense minister proposed increasing military spending by ?130 billion, or about
$141 billion, over 15 years. The government may also divert part of its ?12.1
billion budget surplus to managing the wave of refugees flooding into the
country. France is expanding its military equipment arsenal, troops and police,
as well as increasing surveillance and spending hundreds of millions of euros on
new programs to counter radicalization among Muslim youth.

In Belgium, where militants planned the Paris attacks after training in Syria,
nearly half a billion euros will be spent jailing returning jihadists,
reinforcing borders and keeping hundreds of troops on the streets. And Britain
recently authorized 12 billion pounds in new spending to purchase Boeing P8
maritime patrol aircraft, increase fighter squadron numbers and create new
strike brigades.

''We can't exclude a new attack -- no one can,'' said Michel Sapin, France's
finance minister. ''Here and elsewhere, the risk is present. We need to fight
against the origin of this instability.''

Total Western European military spending, led by France, Britain and Germany, is
expected to jump by an extra ?50 billion through 2019, to ?215 billion, said
Fenella McGerty, an analyst at IHS Jane's Defence Budgets in London. Europe's
security spending, though, will still pale in comparison to that of the United
States.

Even so, the shift could prove a windfall for security, military and arms
manufacturers.

As the austerity mind-set took hold, Europe's big military suppliers quickly
felt the pinch. Contract negotiations with government procurement agencies
stalled or orders were scaled back.

Some companies, like Airbus Group, downsized their military business. In 2013,
Airbus Group announced plans to cut 5,800 jobs from its military and space
divisions and to focus primarily on a booming commercial jet business.

Now, European armies are growing. In a reverse from planned cuts, France is
preparing to add 23,000 positions to the army by 2019. A coalition to fight the
Islamic State that includes France and Britain will soon intensify the campaign
against militants in Iraq and Syria, prompting additional spending on missiles,
drones, jets and surveillance.

Airbus is well positioned.

The company supplies European militaries with a broad range of flying hardware
such as the NH90 helicopter, the A400M cargo and troop transporter and the A330
multi-role refueling tanker. Airbus also has high-tech satellite surveillance
equipment as well as integrated border and coastal security systems, a
particular focus in Europe as the migrant crisis swells.

''We need more cooperation and integration in foreign policy, in defense, in
security policy -- and by security I also mean, obviously, internal security,''
Thomas Enders, chief executive of Airbus, told reporters recently, citing the
failure of some governments to adequately track and monitor potential jihadists
traveling across Europe's internal borders.

In addition to new equipment, much of the increased spending will go toward
closing intelligence and security gaps that have permitted Islamic State
militants to travel through Europe and plan attacks.

France, Germany and Britain are hiring thousands of new intelligence officers
and upgrading surveillance equipment and software for monitoring communications,
especially on the so-called darknet of encrypted networks that terrorists use to
communicate and recruit. Prime Minister David Cameron, who is now reversing
years of military cutbacks, has authorized Britain's creation of a new National
Cyber Centre to track jihadists.

At the same time, private corporations and big cities alike are ramping up
surveillance spending.

In the days after the Paris attacks, Securitas, a leading provider of security
agents in Europe, was swamped with calls from department stores, museums and
other outlets scrambling to hire thousands of guards and intensify screening.
Securitas, which already had 16,000 agents in France, could provide only 800
more, and has since accelerated hiring to meet demand.

At Visiom, a French maker of metal detectors, orders have jumped fourfold since
the Paris attacks, especially from sports stadiums, concert halls and large
stores.

French companies are expected to spend ?500 million more this year for agents,
while security firms and police departments will increase orders for everything
from bulletproof vests to drones, said Patrick Haas, director of En Toute
Sécurité, one of the largest French security firms.

''What has changed after the attacks is that authorities now realize the threat
is permanent,'' Mr. Haas said. ''We are facing a radical shift.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/01/business/international/europe-training-financi
al-firepower-on-terrorism.html

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Soldiers patrolling near the Eiffel Tower, above. France spends
nearly 1 million euros a day on heightened security. Left, a British Royal Air
Force aircraft made by Airbus. Europe's increased spending could prove a
windfall for military suppliers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DMITRY KOSTYUKOV FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES
 IAKOVOS HATZISTAVROU/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A New Digital Privacy Protest

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1376 words


After hackers breached the computer network  of the U.C.L.A. medical center last
summer, Janet Napolitano, president of the University of California, and her
office moved to shore up security across the university system's 10 campuses.

Under a program initiated by Ms. Napolitano, the former secretary of Homeland
Security in the Obama administration, the university system began installing
hardware and software in its data centers that would monitor patterns of digital
traffic, like what websites are being visited by faculty and students, or
telltale signs of cyber intruders. The program, which was begun with little
notice or consultation, soon rankled a group of professors at one campus,
Berkeley, which has a deep-seated ethos of academic freedom as the cradle of the
free speech movement in the 1960s.

In recent days, the professors have begun speaking out publicly about the issue.
''My primary concern is monitoring the private information of students and
faculty in secret,'' said Eric Brewer, a professor of computer science at U.C.
Berkeley. ''I'm sure there's good intent. But I can't see a good reason for
doing it.''

The resistance from Mr. Brewer and other professors at Berkeley, which is now
becoming a public debate with the university system's administrators, raises the
issue of how to define academic freedom in the age of online attacks. While some
of the professors criticize the monitoring program as one that invades their
privacy, the University of California has responded that ''privacy perishes in
the absence of security.''

It's part of the larger challenge that fast-moving technology poses for social
values. Every day, corporations, government agencies and universities must
balance the need for computer security with the expected right to privacy of the
people who use their networks. In different settings, there are different rules,
expectations and levels of threat.

''We're really just starting to sort out the risks and rules for digital
security and data collection and use,'' said Elana Zeide, a privacy expert at
New York University's Information Law Institute.

The Berkeley dispute stands out because of the place and personalities involved.
U.C. Berkeley is not only a leading producer of computer science talent, but
also a champion of the free speech movement, so any surveillance is regarded as
particularly jarring. For her part, Ms. Napolitano, who joined the California
university system in 2013, is no stranger to computer security policy, having
served four years as the nation's Homeland Security chief.

The faculty group of 11 professors critical of the monitoring program said the
university system enacted the program largely in private, with little
transparency about what data is being collected. The monitoring could compromise
and constrain academic freedom to research topics that some find objectionable,
among other repercussions, they said. In a formal meeting with the University of
California's chief information officer in December, the professors asked for the
program to be halted.

On Jan. 19, Ms. Napolitano's staff responded in a five-page reply declining to
do so; the letter was emailed last Friday to the entire Berkeley faculty and
others. The University of California defended the security initiative as a
measured step under the circumstances, and added that ''for cybersecurity
purposes, a risk to what appears to be an isolated system at only one location
may in some circumstances create risk across locations or units.''

The university said Ms. Napolitano was not available for an interview. Steve
Montiel, press secretary for the president's office, said he was not aware of
any complaints from other campuses about the monitoring program.

The roots of the dispute stretch back to the attack disclosed last July at the
UCLA Health System, which potentially put the private information of 4.5 million
patients at risk. In an interview on Monday, Tom Andriola, chief information
officer of the University of California system, said after the medical center
attack the system administrators had to ''move swiftly'' to insure against
similar breaches.

Some faculty members, he acknowledged, may have understandably felt there was
too little consultation. But Mr. Andriola said that ''moving forward the faculty
will be deeply involved.''

Last Oct. 27, the president's office issued a short statement describing the new
data-tracking program, called the Coordinated Monitoring and Threat Response
Initiative. The program's hardware and software are being supplied and run by an
outside contractor, Fidelis Cybersecurity. The president's office has set up a
Cyber-Risk Governance Committee to oversee programs like the data center
monitoring, which includes a Berkeley representative, though not a tenured
faculty member.

The faculty members learned about the monitoring program from people who knew it
was being put in place, but who asked not to be identified because they were not
authorized to disclose the information. Once alerted, the faculty group became
concerned.

Just what data is being collected and stored in the monitoring program is
unclear. The president's office has not explained the data collection and data
use practices of the program, the Berkeley professors said.

''The issue here is the lack of transparency and the lack of shared
governance,'' said Greg Niemeyer, director of the Berkeley Center for New Media.

Lawsuits stemming from the UCLA breach last summer prevent the president's
office from disclosing details of the monitoring program, according to Rachael
Nava, chief operating officer of University of California system, who signed the
Jan. 19 letter. In the letter, she said the legal constraint was ''regrettable''
because she could not share additional information that ''might correct some of
these misimpressions.''

Mr. Andriola emphasized that the program monitored network traffic rather than
mining the contents of email messages, for example. ''This is not spyware,'' he
said.

The standard practice at Berkeley, the professors said, had been to immediately
delete the so-called log files that show the websites a person had visited or
the origin and destination of email traffic. The exception, they said, was if a
pattern of network use signaled the suspicion of data theft or a hacker attack.
So in the past, they said, the monitoring in Berkeley data centers was
light-touch, and targeted.

The worry, Mr. Niemeyer said, is that if network traffic logs are stored, they
could be subject to subpoena. An example, he said, might be if a foreign student
from China or some other autocratic nation is visiting the websites of
dissidents or emailing them.

''Before, we could just say that we just don't have the records,'' Mr. Niemeyer
said. ''Now, it's not clear we wouldn't or the third-party company wouldn't.
That is the kind of scenario that is not unlikely.''

Other examples, he said, might be constraints on academic freedom to research
topics that some object to -- say, pornography or Satan worship. Such inquiries,
in theory, could become the target of congressional investigations into the use
of taxpayers' money that supports a major public university like Berkeley.

In December, the Berkeley faculty group met with Mr. Andriola to voice their
concerns and call for a stop to the monitoring program. In the Jan. 19 letter
from Ms. Nava, she stressed the ''seriousness of the threat.'' The digital
attacks can sometimes jump from one network to another, she said.

The Berkeley professors remain unpersuaded. Corporations often monitor the
online behavior of their employees, but American universities have a different
tradition.

''It's a pretty settled point that universities go out of their way not to
monitor students, faculty and staff,'' said Jeffrey MacKie-Mason, the university
librarian at Berkeley. ''Yes, sometimes security concerns trump privacy. But
it's something we should have an informed discussion about.''

Mr. Andriola said he welcomed a dialogue with the university faculty as a whole.
''This is not a technology issue,'' he said. ''It is about how to strike a
balance between being a very open university while still protecting the assets
of the university from nefarious actors.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/02/technology/at-ucla-a-new-digital-privacy-prote
st.html

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Janet Napolitano, president of the University of California
system. U.C. Berkeley, top, a bastion of academic freedom and computer science
talent. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD HARTOG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ELIZABETH D. HERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Greg Niemeyer of the Berkeley Center for New Media said, ''The issue here is
the lack of transparency and the lack of shared governance.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ELIZABETH D. HERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 11, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Approves Penalties for Aiding Korean Nuclear Program

BYLINE: By EMMARIE HUETTEMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 463 words


WASHINGTON --  In an effort to derail North Korea's nuclear ambitions, the
Senate on Wednesday unanimously approved strict sanctions intended to limit
Pyongyang's ability to finance warheads and missiles.

The legislation targets those who knowingly do business with North Korea to
benefit its nuclear weapons program and also authorizes $50 million to broadcast
messages directly to people in the isolated nation.

Senator Cory Gardner, a first-term Republican from Colorado and a co-sponsor of
the bill, said the measure mandates the sanctions rather than leaving them up to
President Obama's discretion and also imposes the first punitive measures in
response to a violation of the nation's cybersecurity infrastructure, which, he
said, could set a precedent for others like Russia and Iran.

''It's the first of its kind, and I believe that that will be a model for
sanctions against other cyber-perpetrators around the globe,'' Mr. Gardner said.

The bill's passage, 96 to 0, came just a few days after North Korea launched a
satellite in what was seen as further movement toward the development of its
intercontinental ballistic missile capabilities. Last month the North Korean
government conducted its fourth nuclear test in recent years, adding urgency to
lawmakers' desire to find a way to curtail its nuclear program.

Experts say North Korea has found ways around the United Nations's sanctions
currently in place. But while the United States, South Korea and others want to
impose more stringent measures, China is reluctant to punish North Korea, an
ally.

The House bill passed easily last month in a 418-to-2 vote, with Republicans
hoping to send a message that Mr. Obama had not done enough to curb the North
Korean government. The legislation also made it out of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee with unanimous support, and on Wednesday, Democrats joined
the calls for a harsher stance.

''It is clearly time for the United States to start taking the North Korea
challenge seriously,'' said Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey and
a co-sponsor of the bill.

Senators Marco Rubio of Florida and Ted Cruz of Texas, both busy vying for the
Republican presidential nomination, took a break from their campaigns on
Wednesday to return to Washington for the vote. Senator Bernie Sanders of
Vermont missed the vote but put out a statement of support shortly beforehand.

The House and the Senate will need to resolve some differences between their
bills, a process that is not expected to encounter any problems. A White House
spokesman said Wednesday that the administration had no immediate response to
the bill.

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/11/world/asia/senate-approves-penalties-for-aidin
g-north-korean-nuclear-program.html

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 17, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Drew Up Cyberattack Plan in Case Iran Nuclear Dispute Led to Conflict

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and MARK MAZZETTI; David E. Sanger reported from
Berlin, and Mark Mazzetti from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1753 words


BERLIN --  In the early years of the Obama administration, the United States
developed an elaborate plan for a cyberattack on Iran in case the diplomatic
effort to limit its nuclear program failed and led to a military conflict,
according to a coming documentary film and interviews with military and
intelligence officials involved in the effort.

The plan, code-named Nitro Zeus, was devised to disable Iran's air defenses,
communications systems and crucial parts of its power grid, and was shelved, at
least for the foreseeable future, after the nuclear deal struck between Iran and
six other nations last summer was fulfilled.

Nitro Zeus was part of an effort to assure President Obama that he had
alternatives, short of a full-scale war, if Iran lashed out at the United States
or its allies in the region. At its height, officials say, the planning for
Nitro Zeus involved thousands of American military and intelligence personnel,
spending tens of millions of dollars and placing electronic implants in Iranian
computer networks to ''prepare the battlefield,'' in the parlance of the
Pentagon.

The United States military develops contingency plans for all kinds of possible
conflicts, such as a North Korean attack on the South, loose nuclear weapons in
South Asia or uprisings in Africa or Latin America. Most sit on the shelf, and
are updated every few years. But this one took on far greater urgency, in part
because White House officials believed there was a good chance that Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel would decide to strike Iran's nuclear
facilities, and the United States would be drawn into the hostilities that
followed.

While the Pentagon was making those preparations, American intelligence agencies
developed a separate, far more narrowly focused cyberplan to disable the Fordo
nuclear enrichment site, which Iran built deep inside a mountain near the city
of Qum. The attack would have been a covert operation, which the president can
authorize even in the absence of a continuing conflict.

Fordo has long been considered one of the hardest targets in Iran, buried too
deep for all but the most powerful bunker-buster in the American arsenal. The
proposed intelligence operation would have inserted a computer ''worm'' into the
facility with the aim of frying Fordo's computer systems -- effectively delaying
or destroying the ability of Iranian centrifuges to enrich uranium at the site.
It was intended as a follow-up to ''Olympic Games,'' the code name of a
cyberattack by the United States and Israel that destroyed 1,000 centrifuges and
temporarily disrupted production at Natanz, a far larger but less protected
enrichment site.

Under the terms of the nuclear agreement with Iran, two-thirds of the
centrifuges inside Fordo have been removed in recent months, along with all
nuclear material. The facility is banned from any nuclear-related work and is
being converted to other uses, eliminating the threat that prompted the attack
plan, at least for the next 15 years.

The development of the two secret programs suggest how seriously the Obama
administration was concerned that its negotiations with Iran could fail. It also
demonstrates the critical role cyberoperations now play in both military
planning and covert intelligence operations. American generals began
incorporating nuclear weapons into their war plans for protecting Europe or
countering the Soviet Union in the 1950s, and in the last 15 years, they have
made armed drones a central part of military efforts in Pakistan, Afghanistan
and elsewhere. In the same way, cyberwarfare has become a standard element of
the arsenal for what are now called ''hybrid'' conflicts.

The existence of Nitro Zeus was uncovered in the course of reporting for ''Zero
Days,'' a documentary that will be first shown Wednesday at the Berlin Film
Festival. Directed by Alex Gibney, who is known for other documentaries
including the Oscar-winning ''Taxi to the Dark Side'' about the use of torture
by American interrogators, and ''We Steal Secrets: The Story of WikiLeaks.''

''Zero Days'' describes the escalating conflict between Iran and the West in the
years leading up to the agreement, the discovery of the cyberattack on the
Natanz enrichment plant, and the debates inside the Pentagon over whether the
United States has a workable doctrine for the use of a new form of weaponry
whose ultimate effects are only vaguely understood.

Mr. Gibney and his investigative team, led by Javier Botero, interviewed current
and former participants in the Iran program who revealed details of the effort
to infuse Iran's computer networks with ''implants'' that could be used to
monitor the country's activities and, if ordered by Mr. Obama, to attack its
infrastructure. (Under rules laid out in presidential directives, some made
public three years ago by Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency
contractor, only the president can authorize an offensive cyberattack, just as
the president must approve the use of nuclear weapons.)

The New York Times conducted separate interviews to confirm the outlines of the
program. The findings were described over the past two weeks to the White House,
the Pentagon, and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, all of
which declined to comment, noting that they never discuss planning for military
contingencies.

For the seven-year-old United States Cyber Command, which is still building its
cyber ''special forces'' and deploying them throughout the world, the Iran
project was perhaps its most challenging program yet. ''This was an enormous,
and enormously complex, program,'' said one participant who requested anonymity
to discuss a classified program. ''Before it was developed, the U.S. had never
assembled a combined cyber and kinetic attack plan on this scale.''

Nitro Zeus had its roots in the Bush administration but took on new life in 2009
and 2010, just as Mr. Obama asked General John R. Allen, at United States
Central Command, to develop a detailed military plan for Iran in case diplomacy
failed. It was a time of extraordinary tension, as the Iranians accelerated
their production of centrifuges and produced near-bomb-grade fuel and Western
intelligence agencies feared they might be on the verge of developing a nuclear
weapon. It was also a period of extraordinary tension with Israel, partly
because of its presumed role in the assassination of Iranian nuclear scientists,
and partly because of evidence that Mr. Netanyahu was preparing a pre-emptive
strike against Iran, despite warnings from the United States.

At the time, Mr. Obama's aides thought he did not have a credible military
contingency plan. In his memoir, ''Duty,'' former Secretary of Defense Robert M.
Gates described his concerns -- laid out in a highly restricted memorandum to
the White House in January 2010 -- that America's top national security
leadership had not even begun to debate what a fast reaction to Iranian
aggression would look like.

Nitro Zeus quickly emerged as one possible response for Mr. Obama, a way to turn
off critical elements of the Iranian infrastructure without firing a shot. While
cyberoperations have long been contemplated in other war scenarios, Nitro Zeus
''took it to a new level,'' one participant said. Yet the planners warned that
depending on how the conflict unfolded, there could be significant effects on
civilians, particularly if the United States had to cut vast swaths of the
country's electrical grid and communications networks.

While Cyber Command would have executed Nitro Zeus, the National Security
Agency's Tailored Access Operations unit was responsible for penetrating
adversary networks, which would have required piercing and maintaining a
presence in a vast number of Iranian networks, including the country's air
defenses and its transportation and command control centers.

It is a tricky business, the war planners say, because their knowledge of how
networks are connected in Iran, or any other hard target, is sketchy -- and
collateral damage is always hard to predict. It is easier to turn off power
grids, for example, than to start them up again.

Even as the Pentagon prepared for a broad conflict, American intelligence
agencies had a narrower target: how to sabotage the underground Fordo enrichment
site, just as they had sabotaged Natanz at the end of the Bush administration
and the beginning of the Obama administration.

That effort accelerated in 2012 and 2013, as the Iranians began to fill Fordo's
deep underground cavity with more than 3,000 centrifuges. But it was set aside,
after the Iranians significantly slowed their enrichment activity during the
negotiation over the nuclear deal, and then dismantled part of the Fordo plant.

The program to develop a computer worm to attack Fordo appears to have been
initially developed around the time that Mr. Obama and other world leaders
revealed the existence of the underground facility at a conference in Pittsburgh
in September 2009. It is unclear how American spies planned to get inside the
underground nuclear facility -- physically or remotely -- and whether the United
States or an ally like Israel might have had to use human sources inside the
country to conduct the network attack.

The Snowden documents revealed a series of technologies that can be used to
insert programs remotely in a system disconnected from the Internet. That was
done repeatedly at Natanz, as malware was refined and refined again, with each
version subtly manipulating the computer controllers for the centrifuges so that
the giant, spinning machines would gyrate wildly out of control and destroy
themselves. The attack on Fordo appears to have been designed to be more blunt
and obvious -- a straightforward strike that would destroy the circuitry that
powered the centrifuges and their controllers.

It is unclear how successful the strike would have been. While such efforts are
usually tested in mock facilities, there almost certainly would have been
surprises had it been used against the Fordo plant. It is also unclear the
degree to which American and Israeli intelligence agencies may have collaborated
on the program, especially after the recriminations in 2010 over evidence that
Israel rushed ahead in producing a version of the Stuxnet worm without properly
testing it, leading to its exposure.

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/17/world/middleeast/us-had-cyberattack-planned-if
-iran-nuclear-negotiations-failed.html

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A satellite view of the mountain in Iran that holds the Fordo
uranium enrichment plant. The plant was secret until 2009, when President Obama
and Western allies unveiled its existence. Two pairs of tunnel entrances are in
the foreground. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GOOGLE EARTH)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 20, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Art and 3-D Magic in a German Subway

BYLINE: By CHARLY WILDER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1111 words


DÜSSELDORF, Germany -- An escalator descends into a dense soundscape of
birdsongs. Windows appear to open onto outer space. An overhead LED screen
converts human movements into colorful geometric animations.

Yes, they are aesthetic experiences. But they are also part of Germany's newest
subway line, an effort to transform commuter drudgery into art appreciation. The
two-mile line, known as the Wehrhahn, is to open here on Saturday, the result of
a 15-year, $950 million collaboration among artists, architects, civil engineers
and the city government.

''Normally with public art, you have a wall with some kind of painting,'' said
Ulla Lux of the Düsseldorf culture office. ''And we thought, no, it can't be
that. We have to take the next step.''

The line replaces several aboveground tram lines in the city's transit network
and creates a transportation hub. As a bonus for passengers, the city stipulated
that the new line would be free of advertising.

''The first target is the artistic and architectural quality, and advertisements
would have been in conflict,'' said Oliver Witan of Netzwerkarchitekten, an
architectural firm in Darmstadt that, along with the artist Heike Klussmann, won
a European Union-wide competition in 2001 to oversee the design and construction
of the Wehrhahn.

The Wehrhahn is not the first to integrate art into a large-scale infrastructure
project. Its most obvious (if unlikely) progenitor is the Moscow metro, which
opened in 1935. Created under Stalin, its grand arched hallways, cinematic
lighting and exquisite mosaics also amounted to an immersive art experience --
albeit to more propagandistic ends. In 1950, Stockholm debuted its own
art-filled metro system, often referred to as the ''world's longest art
gallery.''

The Wehrhahn's digital and interactive elements are reminiscent of more recent
public-art projects, like Rafael Lozano-Hemmer's 2005 work ''Under Scan'' in
Trafalgar Square in London, which used a system of surveillance and projection
devices to transmit video images onto the shadows of pedestrians.

Rather than conceiving the subway as a chain of individual stations, Ms.
Klussmann and Netzwerkarchitekten designed a ''subterranean continuum.'' The
station walls are a matrix of geometrically complex concrete components that
appear to be an extension of the tunnel itself.

The Wehrhahn's six stations were planned as ''incisions'' in the continuum, with
each reflecting the vision of an artist. Five artists were selected to design
the stations, with Ms. Klussmann designing the sixth.

At Pempelforter Strasse, Ms. Klussmann's work features white bands threading
geometrically across the walls, ceilings and floors.

''I wanted to open the space up visually,'' said Ms. Klussmann, a Berlin-based
artist who also teaches at the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, Calif.
''The bands float into the station, defined by the geometry, and break at the
corners like a billiard ball would break.''

Thomas Stricker, a Swiss sculptor and electrician by training, designed the
Benrather Strasse stop to have the feel of a space station. The steel-clad walls
are interspersed with large panoramic ''windows'' -- multimedia screens that
show slow-moving 3-D animations of outer space.

''Maybe you know this feeling when you're on a train, and you look out the
window and think you are moving, but really it's the train next to you,'' said
Mr. Stricker, who sought to create a similar sensation at Benrather Strasse.

At the Heinrich-Heine-Allee stop, Ralf Brög transformed the three entrances into
audiovisual performance spaces that will host sound-based works. The station
currently features a piece by the German theater director Kevin Rittberger,
which fittingly evokes the myth of Orpheus, who descended to the underworld to
rescue his captive wife, Eurydice, with divine music. At another entrance,
recordings of birds are manipulated with software so the sounds seem to dip and
swirl around passengers as they ride the escalators.

''What I quite liked is that the audience is in motion,'' Mr. Brög said. ''And
you have this given speed of the escalator, which can work as a metronome. So
you know in theory how much time the ear will need to get from here to there.''

Movement was also integral to the design of the Schadowstrasse station, where
the sculptor and cyber artist Ursula Damm installed an LED screen that depicts
the comings and goings of pedestrians on the street above, using a
differentiation filter to generate colorful geometric renderings that then recur
in the blue glass of the station walls.

''It stands for the people,'' said Ms. Damm, who has created similar interactive
and generative artworks since the 1990s. ''You can see how they are behaving in
relation to the architecture, which spaces they prefer to inhabit. At the same
time, they can see what the software is doing with their information. Nothing is
hidden.''

All the stations were designed to allow in as much natural light as possible. In
most of them, the upper and lower levels are separated by cut glass panels,
creating broad sightlines and a sense of spaciousness.

The design incorporates systems like fire-resistant glass and barriers that
deploy to protect passengers from smoke. Even the tunnel itself is illuminated
so riders are never looking into darkness.

''We wanted to design it so that there is good orientation and you feel
secure,'' said Markus Schwieger of Netzwerkarchitekten. ''You can see people
coming in front of you very early.''

Such a holistic approach required continuous coordination among the architects,
artists, city planners and engineers, unusual in the realm of large public
infrastructure projects.

''Normally the technicians first come in and produce the station, and then the
artist is asked to do some work when the station is already done,'' Mr. Witan
said. ''The novelty of our system here is that we involved the artists from the
very beginning.''

The entire project cost 843.6 million euros, about $940 million, financed by the
city of Düsseldorf, the state of North Rhine-Westphalia and the federal
government.

Hans-Georg Lohe, Düsseldorf's head of cultural affairs, who was instrumental in
pushing forward the project, said that a traditional metro line on a similar
scale would have been only slightly cheaper.

''It was about 3 million more euros on expenses for the art,'' Mr. Lohe said.
''So it's just a bit more money, but it has a completely different look and
feel.''

Mr. Lohe said the new line was about more than just convenience and improved
mass transit. ''It will be,'' he said, ''a living art experience for everyone
who uses the metro.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/20/arts/design/art-and-3-d-magic-in-a-german-subw
ay.html

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Construction work at the Graf-Adolf-Platz station of the
Düsseldorf Wehrhahn last year. (C1)
 The finished Schadowplatz station of the Düsseldorf Wehrhahn, which is opening
Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOERG HEMPEL) (C5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 21, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Everyone's a Critic

BYLINE: By DANIEL MENDELSOHN.

Daniel Mendelsohn is the author of two collections of criticism, most recently
''Waiting for the Barbarians: Essays From the Classics to Pop Culture.'' He
teaches at Bard College.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1630 words


BETTER LIVING THROUGH CRITICISMHow to Think About Art, Pleasure, Beauty, and
Truth By A. O. Scott277 pp. Penguin Press. $28.  Was God the first critic?

We tend, of course, to think of him as the first great artist -- or, perhaps,
artiste. Certainly the Bible's description of the circumstances in which
Creation was created -- the sudden flash of inspiration, the heroic decision to
make something where there had been nothing, the struggle to wrest order out of
chaos, the collapse into exhausted rest after a daemonic outpouring of energy --
has colored our romantic notions about creativity and creators ever since. Just
as it has, by implication, informed our ideas about critics: as parasites on the
body of creativity, as destroyers rather than builders, ''the snake in the
garden,'' as one eminent practitioner of the art of criticism has put it, ''of
what should be our simplest pleasures.''

And yet, as A. O. Scott -- the critic in question -- points out in the first
chapter of his lively, often impassioned, occasionally breezy defense of a
profession that many see as headed to extinction, the Almighty had barely
finished creating when he started in on the activity that is central to
criticism, which is judgment. (Scott likes to quote the Greeks, from the poet
Hesiod to Plato to Aristotle, but omits to mention their most salient
contribution to his subject, which is the word ''critic'' itself, derived from
the verb ''to judge.'') The author reminds us that following each stage of
creation, God ''saw that it was good.'' The question that Scott, a chief movie
critic for The New York Times, slyly raises is, ''How did he know?''

That question, in turn, raises still others: What do we mean when we talk about
''good'' art? Are there transcendent, objective criteria for evaluating creative
works, or are they all subjective and culturally specific? Is criticism merely
ancillary to art or its equal? Does it matter when critics are wrong? And who,
anyway, gets to pronounce on what's good and bad? The latter, in particular, has
been the object of highly contentious discussion since the advent of the
Internet, which, for the first time in the roughly two centuries since criticism
became a discrete journalistic enterprise, has allowed nonprofessionals to
publish their own reviews, blurring the line between public and private
utterance and thereby raising still further questions about authority,
Â­expertise and professionalism.

Scott teases out some answers in a series of six chapters, each addressing one
of his core questions: ''The Critic as Artist and Vice Versa,'' ''How to Be
Wrong,'' etc.; these are interwoven with more informal sections that take the
amusing form of interviews with himself. In his more relaxed mode, the writer
can (to his great credit) turn a withering critical eye on his own enthusiasms
-- in his youth, it was ''college radio, literary snobbery, the conspiracy of
the high and the low against the middlebrow'' -- reminding you that, as
independent as we like to think our taste is, we are all the products of
specific cultural moments. The chapters range -- occasionally skate -- over the
history of critical thought, from the Hesiod (for whom, as Scott puts it,
''everything already sucked'': an early example of cultural doomsaying) to H. L.
Mencken; from the Roman poet Horace's ''Ars Poetica,'' the source of the famous
advice to begin a story ''in medias res,'' to Twitter flameouts. ''Better Living
Through Criticism'' begins, indeed, with a funny example of the latter: In
response to the author's 2012 review of ''The Avengers: The Age of Ultron,''
Samuel L. Jackson, one of the movie's stars, responded by tweeting ''AOScott
needs a new job! .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. One he can actually do!''

But what exactly is that ''job''? Scott's survey leads him to a conclusion with
which, you suspect, most authors, filmmakers, painters and poets who have ever
received a stinging review are likely to disagree: that criticism, rather than
being a lesser sibling of Art, is its equal -- codependent and symbiotically
related to the creative arts, each unthinkable without the other. ''Criticism,
far from sapping the vitality of art, is instead what supplies its lifeblood,
.â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. not an enemy from which art must be
defended, but rather another name -- the proper name -- for the defense of art
itself.'' An ingenious element of Scott's argument is that art, like criticism,
is more reactive -- more ''critical'' -- than many who idolize ''creativity''
would acknowledge: Manet is ''conducting a passionate argument with Titian and
VelÃ¡zquez,'' ''Les Demoiselles d'Avignon'' is a dialogue with African masks and
statuary. Both art and criticism originate in ''the urge to master and add
something to reality''; both are characterized by a ''transformation of awe into
understanding.''

An excellent proof of this thesis is Scott's own criticism. There are striking
passages here devoted to vivid and penetrating readings of individual works of
literature and art that, the author suggests, are models for how we might react
to beauty. A fine-grained analysis of Rainer Maria Rilke's lyric poem ''Archaic
Torso of Apollo,'' in which a headless Greek statue inspires the kind of
''cognitive and erotic frenzy'' that lies at the heart of aesthetic response,
made me wish that Scott, who used to review books for Newsday and The New York
Review of Books, could take more time off from blockbusters to write about
literature (something he now does ''not as much as I used to,'' he rather
wistfully remarks at one point). Equally incisive is his critique of Marina
Abramovic's 2010 performance piece ''The Artist Is Present'' at the Museum of
Modern Art, in which museumgoers were invited to sit across from the artist and
stare at her (and be stared at in return). That work, as Scott points out in a
terrific chapter called ''The Eye of the Beholder,'' has more in common with the
German poet's reverie on an eyeless statue than you might at first think,
suggestively destabilizing, as it does, the boundaries between aestheticizing
subject and the aesthetic object.

These acute exegeses stand in reproachful contrast to the occasionally lumpy
quality of the book's capsule surveys of intellectual history; like many a
survey course, this one can feel at once cursory and undigested. It's odd to
whiz through the Wikipedia-like summaries of, say, the 17th century in France
(''ornate gardens and graceful fountains decorated the grounds of grand,
symmetrical palaces''), only to come across unexplained references to the
categorical imperative, a key element in the philosophy of Immanuel Kant, the
great 18th-century theorist of aesthetics. (At one point Scott refers
breathlessly to Kant's ''unparalleled career,'' a sign, perhaps, that he has
seen too many movie trailers.) The least persuasive parts of this book are,
indeed, the passages where he reaches for a flippant, ''popular professor''
tone: ''Kant, having nothing better to do in the Prussian city of Konigsberg,
set about investigating the fundamental nature of taste''; Giorgio Vasari's
lives of the Italian artists were ''mash notes.''

The problem here isn't just one of tone or style -- although a writer of Scott's
standing should know that both are crucial tools in the critic's belt. Rather,
you sense that the faux-populist diction doesn't reflect this author's real
allegiances, which are evident in the works he selects for his loving and expert
analyses: Rilke and Philip Larkin, Picasso and Henry James. (James's 1877 novel
''The American,'' which begins with a scene in which a successful American
businessman is overcome by tiredness in the Louvre, provides an amusing early
example of ''museum fatigue,'' a phenomenon that the author investigates during
a stimulating and subtle discussion about the difficulty of achieving
''innocent'' responses to art.) The admiring references you get here to hip-hop
feel dutiful rather than deeply felt -- attempts to demonstrate his pop bona
fides.

So too with the halfhearted assertion -- the focus of an entire chapter -- that
''it is .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. the job of the critic to be wrong.''
To be sure, critics often turn out to be wrong, as Scott wittily reminds you
during a recitation of some notorious critical gaffes: early and wince-inducing
takedowns of John Keats's poetry, of ''Moby-Dick,'' of ''Bringing Up Baby.'' But
those errors of individual taste -- the most crucial, if Â­indefinable,
qualification for serious criticism, along with expertise, both of which Scott
(who has both) avoids talking about at length, as if to do so would offend the
Â­Amazon-rankers and cyber-tomato-throwers in his audience -- are hardly proof
that the critic's duty is to be ''wrong.'' The critic's job is to be more
educated, articulate, stylish and tasteful -- in a word, more worthy of
''trust'' -- than her readers have the time or inclination to be; qualities
eminently suited to a practice that (as Scott rightly if too glancingly points
out) has validity and value only if it is conducted in public.

Whatever its occasional pandering, ''Better Living Through Criticism'' mostly
exemplifies the rhetorical virtues it so enthusiastically celebrates as being
peculiar to the critic: attentiveness to detail, alertness to context, a hunger
for larger meanings. The critic, Scott declares in the book's final dialogue, is
''a person whose interest can help activate the interest of others.'' In an era
of reflexive contempt for erudition, taste and authority, qualities that Scott
is perhaps too hesitant to name as the sine qua non of great critics, it is no
mean feat to help activate, as this book will surely do, an interest in the
genre of which he and others of his generation may be the last professional
practitioners.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/21/books/review/a-o-scotts-better-living-through-
criticism.html

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A. O. Scott (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA LEHRMAN FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 21, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cybersecurity's Debt to a Hollywood Hack

BYLINE: By FRED KAPLAN.

Fred Kaplan is the author of ''Dark Territory: The Secret History of Cyber
War,'' due out March 1.

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1244 words


Movies rarely influence public policy, but Washington's policies on
cyberattacks, computer surveillance and the possibility of cyberwarfare were
directly influenced by the 1983 box-office hit ''WarGames.''

The film -- starring Matthew Broderick as a tech-whiz teenager who unwittingly
hacks into the computer of the North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD)
and nearly sets off World War III -- opened nationwide that June 3. The next
night, President Ronald Reagan watched it at Camp David. And that is where this
strange story -- culled from interviews with participants and Reagan Library
documents -- begins.

The following Wednesday, back in the White House, Reagan met with his
national-security advisers and 16 members of Congress to discuss forthcoming
nuclear arms talks with the Russians. But he still seemed focused on the movie.

At one point, he put down his index cards and asked if anyone else had seen it.
No one had, so he described the plot in detail. Some of the lawmakers looked
around the room with suppressed smiles or raised eyebrows. Three months earlier,
Reagan had delivered his ''Star Wars'' speech, imploring scientists to build
laser weapons that could shoot down Soviet missiles in outer space. The idea was
widely dismissed as nutty. What was the old man up to now?

After finishing his synopsis, Reagan turned to Gen. John W. Vessey Jr., the
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and asked: ''Could something like this
really happen?'' Could someone break into our most sensitive computers? General
Vessey said he would look into it.

One week later, the general returned to the White House with his answer.
''WarGames,'' it turned out, wasn't far-fetched. ''Mr. president,'' he said,
''the problem is much worse than you think.''

Reagan's question set off a series of interagency memos and studies that
culminated, 15 months later, in his signing a classified national security
decision directive, NSDD-145, titled ''National Policy on Telecommunications and
Automated Information Systems Security.''

The first laptop computers had barely hit the market; public Internet providers
wouldn't exist for another few years. Yet NSDD-145 warned that these new
machines -- which government agencies and high-tech industries had started
buying at a rapid clip -- were ''highly susceptible to interception.'' Hostile
foreign powers were ''extensively'' hacking into them already; ''terrorist
groups and criminal elements'' had the ability to do so, too.

General Vessey could answer the president's question so promptly -- and
national-security aides could compose NSDD-145 in such detailed language --
because, deep within the bureaucracy, a small group of scientists and spies had
been concerned about this looming threat for more than a decade.

In the 1960s, the Defense Department's Advanced Research Projects Agency
undertook a program called the ARPAnet. The idea, a precursor to the Internet,
was to let Pentagon labs and contractors share data and research on the same
network.

Just before the program's rollout, in April 1967, an engineer named Willis Ware
wrote a paper called ''Security and Privacy in Computer Systems.'' A computer
pioneer dating back to the '40s, Mr. Ware headed the computer science department
at the RAND Corporation, the think tank in Santa Monica, Calif.

In his paper, he lauded the goals of the ARPAnet but explained some risks of
what he called ''on-line'' networks. As long as computers sat in isolated
chambers, security wasn't a problem. But once multiple users could gain access
to data from unprotected locations, anyone with certain skills could hack into
the network -- and, once inside, roam at will, pilfering unclassified and secret
files alike. Mr. Ware's warnings went unheeded for decades, though he remained a
frequent consultant. (He died in 2013, at the age of 93.)

In 1980, Lawrence Lasker and Walter Parkes, former Yale classmates in their late
20s, were writing the screenplay for ''WarGames.'' (It would be nominated for an
Oscar but would lose to Horton Foote's ''Tender Mercies.'') A hacker friend had
told them about ''demon-dialing,'' in which a telephone modem searched for other
modems by automatically dialing each phone number in an area code and letting it
ring twice before proceeding to the next number. If a modem answered, it would
squawk; the demon-dialing software would record the number, so the hacker could
call back later. In their screenplay, this was how their hero broke into NORAD.
But they wondered if this was plausible: Didn't the military close off its
computers to public telephone lines?

Mr. Lasker lived in Santa Monica, a few blocks from RAND. Figuring someone there
might be helpful, he called the public affairs office, which put him in touch
with Mr. Ware, who invited the pair to his office.

They'd come to the right man. Not only had he long known about the vulnerability
of computer networks, but he'd also helped design the software for the real
NORAD computer. And Mr. Ware proved remarkably open, even friendly. Listening to
the writers' questions, he waved off their worries. Yes, he told them, the
computer was supposed to be closed, but some officers wanted to work from home
on weekends, so they'd leave a port open. Anyone could get in, if the right
number was dialed.

''The only computer that's completely secure,'' Mr. Ware told them with a
mischievous smile, ''is a computer that no one can use.''

Ware gave the writers the confidence to go ahead with their project. It's
fitting that the scenario of ''WarGames'' -- which aroused Reagan's curiosity
and led to the first national policy on reducing the vulnerability of computers
-- owed a crucial debt to the man who'd first warned that they were vulnerable.

Meanwhile, Reagan's directive hit a roadblock. It put the National Security
Agency in charge of securing all of the nation's computer servers and networks
-- government, business and personal. The agency had been established in 1952 to
intercept foreign communications; it was expressly barred from spying on
Americans. Representative Jack Brooks, a Texas Democrat and a fiery
civil-liberties advocate, wasn't about to let a classified presidential decree
blur the distinction. He sponsored and got passed a law overriding that
directive.

The main author of Reagan's NSDD-145 was Donald Latham, the Pentagon's liaison
to the National Security Agency -- and a former N.S.A. analyst himself. General
Vessey had assigned him to answer Reagan's question on ''WarGames'' (Could
something like this really happen?). Mr. Latham answered as he did (The
situation is much worse than you think.) because he knew that the N.S.A. had
long been hacking into the communications systems of the Soviet Union and China
-- and what we were doing to them, they could someday do to us.

Mr. Ware had been among the first to draw this conclusion. Mr. Latham knew about
it early on because the two were longtime friends, Mr. Ware having served on the
N.S.A.'s scientific advisory board. The N.S.A. was the most secretive branch of
the American intelligence community. Reagan's screening of ''WarGames'' brought
Mr. Ware's concerns into high policy-making circles for the first time. And it
sparked the first public controversy over the tensions between security and
privacy on the Internet, as well as the first public power struggle about the
subject between the N.S.A. and Congress -- a debate and a struggle that persist
today.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/21/movies/wargames-and-cybersecuritys-debt-to-a-h
ollywood-hack.html

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Dabney Coleman, Matthew Broderick and Ally Sheedy in
''WarGames'' (1983). The film led to the nation's first directive about computer
security. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MGM)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 28, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Buffett, in Annual Letter, Rejects Candidates' Message of U.S. Decline

BYLINE: By LESLIE PICKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 999 words


Warren E. Buffett took aim on Saturday at the ''negative drumbeat'' of this
year's presidential campaign, saying that the view that children today would not
live as well as their parents was ''dead wrong.''

In his annual letter to shareholders, the billionaire investor -- who has
endorsed Hillary Clinton for president -- wrote that ''the babies being born in
America today are the luckiest crop in history.''

Employing his typical folksy humor and optimism, Mr. Buffett's letter discussed
such themes as income inequality, climate change, efficiency and prosperity, as
well as investments like BNSF Railway and Kraft Heinz.

''For 240 years it's been a terrible mistake to bet against America, and now is
no time to start,'' he wrote. ''America's golden goose of commerce and
innovation will continue to lay more and larger eggs.''

Mr. Buffett cautioned, though, that while the ''pie to be shared by the next
generation will be far larger than today's,'' the way it is divided will
''remain fiercely contentious.'' Many of the negative effects of innovation and
greater efficiency tend to harm the worker, he said.

He gave the example of how competition had forced his Dexter shoe operation to
fold, leaving 1,600 employees in a small Maine town without work, many of whom
were past the point where they could learn another trade. He said the same
situation unfolded at the original New England textile plant of his holding
company, Berkshire Hathaway.

Mr. Buffett's suggested solution: providing safety nets for those who want to
work but find their talents out of favor because of market forces.

''The price of achieving ever-increasing prosperity for the great majority of
Americans should not be penury for the unfortunate,'' he wrote.

The letter to shareholders was released along with the fourth-quarter and annual
results for Berkshire Hathaway. Berkshire's earnings rose to $24.08 billion last
year from $19.87 billion in 2014, while annual revenue increased by $16 billion,
to $210.8 billion.

In his letter, Mr. Buffett contrasted Berkshire's pursuit of efficiency with
that of 3G Capital, the Brazilian investment firm that he partnered with to
acquire Heinz, which was later combined with Kraft last year.

While praising 3G's method as ''extraordinarily successful,'' Mr. Buffett said
that it encompassed buying companies with the intent to immediately cut costs.
Berkshire, he said, also ''craves efficiency,'' but looks for companies that are
avoiding bloat, ones that are already run by efficient managers.

His example was Precision Castparts Corporation, which was purchased a month ago
for $32 billion -- the company's largest acquisition to date. He added that Mark
Donegan, the chief executive of Precision Castparts, would be among those
deploying Berkshire's capital through acquisitions.

Much smaller acquisitions were also a focus last year, when Berkshire's
subsidiaries made 29 ''bolt-on'' acquisitions, costing $634 million. Mr. Buffett
said that the company would make dozens more such acquisitions in future years.

Berkshire Hathaway is a big insurer, meaning that changes in weather patterns
that could cause catastrophes, such as hurricanes, could hurt the company.

Addressing a proposal to discuss climate change at the company's annual meeting
in April, Mr. Buffett wrote that it seemed ''highly likely to me that climate
change poses a major problem for the planet.'' He said that because insurance
policies are rewritten each year, Berkshire Hathaway should not be exposed to
high losses.

Mr. Buffett also defended the Clayton Homes subsidiary, whose mortgage practices
have been scrutinized because they aim at lower-income homeowners. He sought to
differentiate Clayton from what he said were the destructive and corrupt
practices that contributed to the Great Recession of 2008.

Clayton, he said, keeps all of the mortgages it originates, rather than siphon
them off to banks that could structure them into new, complicated securities.
Last year, however, Clayton foreclosed on 8,444 mortgages at a cost of $157
million, and paid almost $750,000 in fines and refunds to customers.

By giving so much attention to Clayton Homes in the letter, Mr. Buffett was
making a ''pre-emptive strike toward criticism there,'' said Cathy Seifert, an
analyst with S&P Global Market Intelligence.

Berkshire's noninsurance companies also include what Mr. Buffett called the
''Powerhouse Five'': Berkshire Hathaway Energy, Marmon (an industrial holding
company), Lubrizol (specialty chemicals), IMC (metalworking) and BNSF Railway,
which together earned $13.1 billion last year.

Last year, Mr. Buffett increased Berkshire's stock stakes in what he called the
''Big Four'' -- American Express, Coca-Cola, IBM and Wells Fargo. Berkshire's
portion of the Big Four's 2015 earnings amounted to $4.7 billion, he said.

''Woody Allen once explained that the advantage of being a bisexual is that it
doubles your chance of finding a date on Saturday night,'' Mr. Buffett said.
''In like manner -- well, not exactly like manner -- our appetite for either
operating businesses or passive investments doubles our chances for finding
sensible uses for Berkshire's endless gusher of cash.''

Despite Mr. Buffett's wide array of topics in his 30-page letter -- including
that he has yet to use the mobile matchmaking service Tinder -- there were
several topics that were notably absent.

At age 85, Mr. Buffett again did not identify his successor, a vital question
among investors and Berkshire enthusiasts. He also did not go into great detail
about the slump in commodity prices -- nor the volatility in the markets --
except to say how they could affect volumes at BNSF Railway and Berkshire's
industrial products manufacturers.

When it comes to risks, however, Mr. Buffett said there is really only one
enduring danger that he cannot fix: the threat from cyber, biological, nuclear
or chemical attack on the United States.

'' 'Innovation' has its dark side,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/28/business/dealbook/buffett-in-annual-letter-rej
ects-candidates-message-of-us-decline.html

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Warren Buffett and Carol Loomis speaking onstage during the
Fortune Most Powerful Women Summit last year. Ms. Loomis, a longtime journalist,
edits Mr. Buffett's letters to shareholders. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL MORIGI/GETTY
IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        March 1, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

To Circumcise or Not to Circumcise: A New Father's Question;
Rites of Passage

BYLINE: CHRIS SILVA

SECTION: FASHION; mens-style

LENGTH: 963 words



HIGHLIGHT: A newborn son, a difficult decision.


We never gave much thought to circumcision. Our son was a surviving twin born at
27 weeks gestation. He spent the first 76 days of his life in the newborn
intensive care unit at Prentice Women's Hospital in Chicago. Because he was
fighting for his life, there were more pressing matters to consider than the
shape of his penis.

I had never really questioned why I was circumcised. It wasn't done for
religious reasons. And I had never wondered what my life would have been like
had I not been snipped. The look and shape of my penis are nothing more than a
part of who I am. No different, really, than the hair on my chest or the mole
above my left eyebrow.

The doctors first brought up the subject a week before our son's discharge. They
told us that if we wanted to have him circumcised, it would be most convenient
to schedule it with his hernia surgery. It would be a two-for-one.

My wife had said that because I was the one with the penis, the decision was up
to me. For me, there wasn't a choice. I'm circumcised. Of course my son would
be.

The surgery was a success, except that the doctors thought he was too small to
circumcise. They recommended that we return a few weeks later for an outpatient
procedure.

Christina began to have second thoughts about putting him under the knife again.
I did not share her concerns.

A few days later, I was on the phone with my friend Brooks, updating him on our
son's progress and talking through a potential hot topic within my family: my
hard-line stance against baptism.

I was raised Catholic. I had served as an altar boy, attended Catholic school
for 12 years and hardly ever missed a Sunday Mass throughout my childhood in
Staten Island, the Bronx and the Jersey Shore. Today, I am no longer a
practicing Catholic. Except for weddings, I have not attended church in years.

We intend to expose our son to the many religions of the world, and if there
comes a day when he wants to identify with one, then he will make an informed
decision. I had thought this through for months. Christina, who is not Catholic,
agreed.

I told all of this to Brooks. He understood. Then he threw me a curveball: Did
we plan to go ahead with the circumcision?

"Well, yeah, of course," I quickly replied.

"So you don't want to baptize your son, but you won't hesitate to have his
foreskin cut?"

I found myself tongue-tied and slightly embarrassed. How could I have not given
circumcision more thought? I had convictions regarding baptism. But to have our
son circumcised for no reason other than the fact that it was done to me? By the
same logic, I may as well have him baptized.

But for my son to have his penis look absolutely nothing like mine, well, it
worried me somehow. If he ever had questions about his, I wouldn't have the
firsthand experience to offer answers. And if he saw me naked, he might notice
the difference. Would he feel less of a father-son connection to me, as paranoid
as that may sound?

We researched the four methods that use a clamp, as well as the Plastibell
method, the procedure favored by the hospital where he would be circumcised.

The American Academy of Pediatrics says that the benefits of circumcision
outweigh the risks, but they aren't profound enough to recommend the procedure
universally. The potential consequences of not having our son circumcised
included varying degrees of risk, such as greater odds of developing urinary
tract infections, sexually transmitted diseases and even penile cancer -- all
enough to instill more fear in me, regardless of how low some of those risks
were.

I do not recommend viewing the Google Image search results for circumcision.

I fell deep down a cyber-rabbit hole into a world of first-person essays on
sites like Cosmopolitan.com and Jezebel, describing women's sexual escapades
with "natural men." The reviews were mixed.

I was hoping Christina had been with an uncircumcised man so she could provide
insight, but I figured she would have said something by now and, alas, she had
not. I considered asking female friends about their experiences but couldn't
work up the guts and didn't know whom I should ask. My fears and ego were
getting the better of me. I didn't want to make the wrong decision for my son.

In the end, Christina and I kept coming back to two things: that the procedure
meant pain, regardless of how temporary, and that in our son's case, it seemed
not to serve any medical purpose. As my wife put it, it's just another form of
cosmetic surgery.

Two days later, at his first pediatrician appointment, his doctor, who is
Romanian, cautioned that there are different ways to interpret data from the
many studies. She also recommended that we look into the World Health
Organization's findings, which in 2007 showed that circumcision is more
prevalent in America than anywhere else; in fact, Western European countries
have circumcision rates of less than 20 percent. That number made me feel even
better about our decision.

Our son recently turned a year old, and I still play the "what if?" game in my
head. What if he questions why we look different down there? What if during
middle school he gets picked on in the locker room for being the only
uncircumcised kid? What if women see this as a deal breaker? What if he has
reduced sexual pleasure?

Then I remember these fears are occurring because I am way out of my little
comfort zone -- out of America's comfort zone, really.

And that's exactly the type of father I want to be: a man who models for his son
that he's not afraid to challenge his default ways of thinking.

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and
Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.

Chris Silva, an advertising strategist, is a former editor and sportswriter.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM BOWER)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 1, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Utilities Cautioned About Potential for a Cyberattack

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1001 words


WASHINGTON --  The Obama administration has warned the nation's power companies,
water suppliers and transportation networks that sophisticated cyberattack
techniques used to bring down part of Ukraine's power grid two months ago could
easily be turned on them.

After an extensive inquiry, American investigators concluded that the attack in
Ukraine on Dec. 23 may well have been the first power blackout triggered by a
cyberattack -- a circumstance many have long predicted. Working remotely, the
attackers conducted ''extensive reconnaissance'' of the power system's networks,
stole the credentials of system operators and learned how to switch off the
breakers, plunging more than 225,000 Ukrainians into darkness.

In interviews, American officials said they have not completed their inquiry
into who was responsible for the attack. But Ukrainian officials have blamed the
Russians, saying it was part of the effort to intimidate the country's political
leaders by showing they could switch off the lights at any time.

''They could be right,'' said one senior administration official. ''But so far
we don't have the complete evidence, and the attackers went to some lengths to
hide their tracks.''

Even after it has reached a conclusion, the White House might decide not to name
the attackers, just as it decided not to publicly blame China for the theft of
22 million security files from the Office of Personnel Management.

But American intelligence officials have been intensely focused on the
likelihood that the attack was engineered by the Russian military, or
''patriotic hackers'' operating on their behalf, since the first reports of the
December blackout. The officials have found it intriguing that the attack did
not appear designed to shut down the entire country. ''This appears to be
message-sending,'' said one senior administration official with access to the
intelligence, who requested anonymity to discuss the ongoing inquiry.

Equally interesting to investigators was the technique used: The malware
designed for the Ukrainian power grid was directed at ''industrial control
systems,'' systems that act as the intermediary between computers and the
switches that distribute electricity and guide trains as they speed down the
track, the valves that control water supplies, and the machinery that mixes
chemicals at factories.

The most famous such attack was the Stuxnet worm, which destroyed the
centrifuges that enriched uranium at the Natanz nuclear site in Iran. But that
is not an example often cited by American officials -- largely because the
attack was conducted by the United States and Israel, a fact American officials
have never publicly acknowledged.

Experts in cybersecurity regard the Ukraine attack as a teaching moment, a
chance to drive home to American firms the vulnerability of their own systems.
''There's never been an intentional cyberattack that has taken the electric grid
down before,'' said Robert M. Lee of the SANS Institute. Mr. Lee said that while
it was still not possible to determine who conducted the attack -- what is
called ''attribution'' in the cyber industry -- he noted that it was clearly
designed to send a political message.

''It was large enough to get everyone's attention,'' he said, ''and small enough
not to prompt a major response.''

The warning issued last Thursday by the Department of Homeland Security provided
the first detailed account of the Ukrainian attack, based on the findings of a
series of government experts who traveled to Ukraine to gather evidence.

The attack described by the Homeland Security document was highly sophisticated.
The attackers gained entry, it appears, by sending a series of ''spearphishing''
messages that led someone in Ukraine to unintentionally give them access. Once
they had that, the attackers mapped the system, much as the North Koreans mapped
Sony Entertainment's computers before attacking them in the fall of 2014.

Then a series of cyberattacks were carefully coordinated to occur within 30
minutes of one another on Dec. 23. The ''breakers'' that disconnected power were
operated ''by multiple external humans'' through secure communication channels.
The hackers then wiped many of the systems clean using a form of malware aptly
named ''KillDisk'' which erased files on the systems and disabled them. They
wiped out the ''human-machine interface'' that enables operators of the electric
system to run those systems -- or get them back in service -- from their
computers.

For extra measure, the hackers even managed to disconnect backup power supplies,
so that once the power failed, the computers could not turn them back on.

Investigators say that in the end, the Ukrainians may have been saved by the
fact that their country relies on old technology and is still not as fully wired
as many Western nations -- meaning they were able to restore power by manually
flipping old-style circuit breakers.

''The bad news for the United States is that we can't do the same thing,'' said
Ted Koppel, the former ABC News anchor who published a best seller last year,
entitled ''Lights Out,'' about the vulnerability of the American electric grid.

''We have 3,200 power companies, and we need a precise balance between the
amount of electricity that is generated and the amount that is used,'' he said.
''And that can only be done over a system run on the Internet. The Ukrainians
were lucky to have antiquated systems.''

The report from Homeland Security recommended a series of common-sense steps:
Make sure that outsiders accessing power systems or other networks that operate
vital infrastructure can monitor the system, but not change it; close ''back
doors'' -- system flaws that can give an intruder unauthorized access; have a
contingency plan to shut down systems that have been infected, or invaded, by
outsiders.

But all those systems make it harder for legitimate operators to use the
Internet to keep vast systems operating, from a smartphone or laptop if
necessary.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/01/us/politics/utilities-cautioned-about-potentia
l-for-a-cyberattack-after-ukraines.html

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 1, 2016 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Review: 'Dark Territory' Illuminates Cybersecurity's Shadows

BYLINE: By JONATHAN A. KNEE

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; BOOK ENTRY; Pg.

LENGTH: 991 words


Fred Kaplan has written a consistently eye-opening history of our government's
efforts to effectively manage our national security in the face of the largely
open global communications network established by the World Wide Web.

The great strengths of ''Dark Territory: The Secret History of Cyber War''
(Simon & Schuster) are the depth of its reporting and the breadth of its
ambition. Mr. Kaplan understands that the line between cyber wars and
conventional ones has become more apparent than real and does not shy away from
examining the full implications for both. He also explores the substantive and
political drivers of the turf wars among the multiple agencies and branches of
government that have a dog in the fight.

Tackling a subject that, as the current controversy over Apple's standoff with
the Justice Department confirms, attracts fierce partisans, Mr. Kaplan manages
to keep his head and let the breathtaking facts mostly speak for themselves.

The result is not just a page-turner but consistently surprising. Who knew that
the 1983 movie ''War Games'' had such a significant impact on President Reagan
and the ultimate direction of our national policy, or that a different movie,
''Sneakers,'' viewed a decade later by the National Security Agency's director,
would as well? And what were the odds that one of the screenwriters of both
films lived a few blocks from the Air Force-funded RAND Corporation? Critical
plot elements, it turns out, were contributed by one of the original programmers
for the North American Aerospace Defense Command computer, who the screenwriters
met through RAND. They were unaware that at the time the programmer still sat on
the scientific advisory board of the National Security Agency.

The surprises and pleasures of ''Dark Territory'' are not limited to such
coincidences of history, although there are plenty of them. A variety of
unexpected colorful characters, like a young hacker named Mudge, end up playing
a meaningful and constructive role in shaping the country's approach to
cyberthreats. The author never neglects to tie his compelling descriptions of
the personalities and events to their overarching historical implications. One
of the most important themes that emerges from Mr. Kaplan's nuanced narrative is
the extent to which defense and offense are very much two sides of the same
coin. Mr. Kaplan examines what this fundamental premise suggests not only for
law and policy but for the very organization of the government's efforts to
protect the nation.

The biggest surprise of ''Dark Territory'' is the identity of the most prominent
domestic heroes and villains in the ''secret history.''

According to Mr. Kaplan, George W. Bush's new administration ''threw out'' a
variety of Clinton cybersecurity initiatives and downgraded the entire effort in
response to ''the contempt they harbored for their predecessor.'' These
shortsighted parochial decisions at the expense of the national interest are
precisely the kind that the public suspects the government routinely makes.

The real shocker of ''Dark Territory'' is how rare such behavior actually has
been. In fact, Mr. Kaplan's account presents not just well-meaning but effective
government officials repeatedly averting disasters, remedying incursions and
prosecuting successful attacks. Using a combination of technical and
bureaucratic innovations, a succession of foresighted mid- and high-level
officials have managed to do a remarkable job of protecting the nation while
balancing the civil liberties of its citizens.

This is not to say that our leaders are perfect. But given the magnitude of the
challenges and the complexities of the issues, ''Dark Territory'' is the rare
tome that leaves the reader feeling generally good about their civilian and
military leadership.

What's more, although there is a fair share of infighting, the biggest practical
obstacle to progress that emerges from these pages is not the government, but
the business community. Time and again, ''private companies didn't want to spend
the money on cyber security, and they resisted all regulations to make them do
so.'' While giving lip service to the importance of the issue, most ''executives
had calculated that it cost no more to clean up after a cyber attack than to
prevent one in the first place.''

Mr. Kaplan concedes that eventually, when the magnitude of the threat became
clear, ''the big banks were exceptions to this pattern,'' but he is justifiably
scathing about the corporate sector's cynical response to the government's early
warnings and the disclosure by Edward J. Snowden of their complicity.

In response to the outcry over the Snowden affair, President Obama did what many
leaders before him had done: appoint a commission. In this case, that commission
was widely anticipated to generate fireworks with a membership that included
security hard-liners like the former counterterrorism czar Richard A. Clarke and
civil liberties advocates like the constitutional law professor Geoffrey R.
Stone. After closely examining the details of the programs revealed by the
documents that Mr. Snowden pilfered, however, the commissioners quickly arrived
at a consensus and happily shared writing responsibility for their final report.
After its publication, at a speech delivered to the National Security Agency,
Professor Stone admitted that ''I found to my surprise that the N.S.A. deserves
the respect and appreciation of the American people.''

If Mr. Kaplan is to be believed, the same cannot be said of the private sector.
The current dispute between Apple and the government should be decided on its
own merits. The history detailed in ''Dark Territory,'' however, suggests that
when it comes to cybersecurity, claims made by corporations should be examined
with particular skepticism.

Jonathan A. Knee is Professor of Professional Practice at Columbia Business
School and a Senior Advisor at Evercore Partners.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/01/business/dealbook/book-review-dark-territory-i
lluminates-cybersecuritys-shadows.html

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 4, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Father's Question

BYLINE: By CHRIS SILVA.

Chris Silva, an advertising strategist, is a former editor and sportswriter.

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; RITES OF PASSAGE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 954 words


We never gave much thought to circumcision. Our son was a surviving twin born at
27 weeks gestation. He spent the first 76 days of his life in the newborn
intensive care unit at Prentice Women's Hospital in Chicago. Because he was
fighting for his life, there were more pressing matters to consider than the
shape of his penis.

I had never really questioned why I was circumcised. It wasn't done for
religious reasons. And I had never wondered what my life would have been like
had I not been snipped. The look and shape of my penis are nothing more than a
part of who I am. No different, really, than the hair on my chest or the mole
above my left eyebrow.

The doctors first brought up the subject a week before our son's discharge. They
told us that if we wanted to have him circumcised, it would be most convenient
to schedule it with his hernia surgery. It would be a two-for-one.

My wife had said that because I was the one with the penis, the decision was up
to me. For me, there wasn't a choice. I'm circumcised. Of course my son would
be.

The surgery was a success, except that the doctors thought he was too small to
circumcise. They recommended that we return a few weeks later for an outpatient
procedure.

Christina began to have second thoughts about putting him under the knife again.
I did not share her concerns.

A few days later, I was on the phone with my friend Brooks, updating him on our
son's progress and talking through a potential hot topic within my family: my
hard-line stance against baptism.

I was raised Catholic. I had served as an altar boy, attended Catholic school
for 12 years and hardly ever missed a Sunday Mass throughout my childhood in
Staten Island, the Bronx and the Jersey Shore. Today, I am no longer a
practicing Catholic. Except for weddings, I have not attended church in years.

We intend to expose our son to the many religions of the world, and if there
comes a day when he wants to identify with one, then he will make an informed
decision. I had thought this through for months. Christina, who is not Catholic,
agreed.

I told all of this to Brooks. He understood. Then he threw me a curveball: Did
we plan to go ahead with the circumcision?

''Well, yeah, of course,'' I quickly replied.

''So you don't want to baptize your son, but you won't hesitate to have his
foreskin cut?''

I found myself tongue-tied and slightly embarrassed. How could I have not given
circumcision more thought? I had convictions regarding baptism. But to have our
son circumcised for no reason other than the fact that it was done to me? By the
same logic, I may as well have him baptized.

But for my son to have his penis look absolutely nothing like mine, well, it
worried me somehow. If he ever had questions about his, I wouldn't have the
firsthand experience to offer answers. And if he saw me naked, he might notice
the difference. Would he feel less of a father-son connection to me, as paranoid
as that may sound?

We researched the four methods that use a clamp, as well as the Plastibell
method, the procedure favored by the hospital where he would be circumcised.

The American Academy of Pediatrics says that the benefits of circumcision
outweigh the risks, but they aren't profound enough to recommend the procedure
universally. The potential consequences of not having our son circumcised
included varying degrees of risk, such as greater odds of developing urinary
tract infections, sexually transmitted diseases and even penile cancer -- all
enough to instill more fear in me, regardless of how low some of those risks
were.

I do not recommend viewing the Google Image search results for circumcision.

I fell deep down a cyber-rabbit hole into a world of first-person essays on
sites like Cosmopolitan.com and Jezebel, describing women's sexual escapades
with ''natural men.'' The reviews were mixed.

I was hoping Christina had been with an uncircumcised man so she could provide
insight, but I figured she would have said something by now and, alas, she had
not. I considered asking female friends about their experiences but couldn't
work up the guts and didn't know whom I should ask. My fears and ego were
getting the better of me. I didn't want to make the wrong decision for my son.

In the end, Christina and I kept coming back to two things: that the procedure
meant pain, regardless of how temporary, and that in our son's case, it seemed
not to serve any medical purpose. As my wife put it, it's just another form of
cosmetic surgery.

Two days later, at his first pediatrician appointment, his doctor, who is
Romanian, cautioned that there are different ways to interpret data from the
many studies. She also recommended that we look into the World Health
Organization's findings, which in 2007 showed that circumcision is more
prevalent in America than anywhere else; in fact, Western European countries
have circumcision rates of less than 20 percent. That number made me feel even
better about our decision.

Our son recently turned a year old, and I still play the ''what if?'' game in my
head. What if he questions why we look different down there? What if during
middle school he gets picked on in the locker room for being the only
uncircumcised kid? What if women see this as a deal breaker? What if he has
reduced sexual pleasure?

Then I remember these fears are occurring because I am way out of my little
comfort zone -- out of America's comfort zone, really.

And that's exactly the type of father I want to be: a man who models for his son
that he's not afraid to challenge his default ways of thinking.

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and
Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/04/fashion/mens-style/circumcision-fatherhood-dil
emma.html

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM BOWER)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 4, 2016 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Transcript of the Republican Presidential Debate in Detroit

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Politics; Pg.

LENGTH: 20199 words


Following is a transcript of the Republican debate, as transcribed by the
Federal News Service.

KELLY: Good evening, and welcome to the fabulous FOX Theatre in downtown
Detroit, the site of the 11th Republican presidential debate of the 2016
campaign.

KELLY: I'm Megyn Kelly, along with my co-moderators, Bret Baier and Chris
Wallace.

BAIER: 59 Republican delegates are at stake here in the state of Michigan during
next Tuesday's Republican primary, the biggest prize out of four states holding
contests that day. For tonight's debate we're partnering with Facebook. The
conversation about this election has been intense, as the crowd is here.

Since January 1st, 53 million people in the U.S. have been talking about the
election on Facebook.

WALLACE: Tonight there are just four candidates on this stage. Their position
has been determined by their standing in an average of the five most recent
national polls as recognized by FOX News, and conducted and released by March
1st. Here they are.

Businessman, Donald Trump.

(CHEERING) (APPLAUSE)

Texas Senator, Ted Cruz.

(CHEERING) (APPLAUSE)

Florida Senator, Marco Rubio.

(CHEERING) (APPLAUSE)

And, Ohio Governor, John Kasich.

(CHEERING) (APPLAUSE)

KELLY: Tonight's rules are simple. Up to 60 seconds for each answer, 30 seconds
for each follow-up response, and if a candidate goes over the allotted time, you
will hear this.

(BELL RINGING)

BAIER: So pleasant.

KELLY: Really.

BAIER: We have a big crowd here, and while we expect the audience to be
enthusiastic and responsive at times... (CHEERING) (APPLAUSE)

BAIER: ... they may have already been -- we also expect them to be respectful,
and we want the candidates to get their full time. So, somewhere between a
library and a Red Wings game.

(LAUGHTER) (CHEERING)

BAIER: Am I right? Is that OK?

Let's get started.

WALLACE: Mr. Trump, as you may have heard, the 2012 Republican nominee for
President, Mitt Romney, had some things to say about you today.

He said your domestic policy will lead to recession, he's said your foreign
policy will make us less safe, and then he listed what he said are your personal
qualities. Quoting now Romney on Trump, quote, ''the bullying, the greed, the
showing off, the misogyny, the absurd, third-grade theatrics''.

(CHEERING)

He challenged you to answer with substance, not insults. How do you answer Mitt
Romney, sir?

TRUMP: Well look, he was a failed candidate, he should have beaten president
Obama very easy.

He failed miserably, and it was an embarrassment to everybody, including the
Republican party. It looked like he went away on a vacation the last month. So,
I don't take that, and I guess, obviously, he wants to be relevant. He wants to
be back in the game.

As far as domestic policy and trade which is killing our country, he said free
trade and I believe in free trade also. But, if you look at China, and you look
Japan, and if you look at Mexico, both at the border, by the way, where they're
killing us.

Both at the border, and with trade -- and every other country we do business
with we are getting absolutely crushed on trade. And, he said free trade, I say
free trade great. But, not when they're beating us so badly.

With China we're going to lose $505 billion dollars in terms of trades. You just
can't do it.

Mexico, $58 billion dollars.

Japan, probably about, they don't know it yet, but about $109 billion dollars.

Every country we lose money with. As far as I'm concerned, we've got to reduce
-- we have to redo our trade deals 100 percent. I have the greatest business
people in the world lined up to do it. We will make...

(BELL RINGING)

TRUMP: ... great trade deals.

(CHEERING)

WALLACE: Mr. Trump, Romney also talked about your position on race, and the
controversy over your failure to denounce David Duke on Sunday. You have
repeatedly disavowed him since then, but I'd like to go deeper than that. What
are your views on the Klu Klux Klan, and white supremacists?

TRUMP: I totally disavow the Klu Klux Klan. I totally disavow David Duke. I've
been doing it now for two weeks, this is your -- you're probably about the 18th
person that's asked me the question. It was very clear, that question was also
talked about in the form of groups. Groups, I want to know which groups are you
talking about? You have to tell me which groups?

Ultimately, he got to the Klu Klux Klan, which obviously I'm going to disavow.
And, by the way, if you look on my Twitter account, almost immediately after the
program they were disavowed again.

You know, it's amazing. When I do something on Twitter, everybody picks it up,
goes all over the place. But, when I did this one nobody ever picks it up. Take
a look at my Twitter account.

WALLACE: Thank you, sir.

TRUMP: Thank you. Thanks.(APPLAUSE)

BAIER: Senator Rubio, three weeks ago you said, quote: ''I don't do the personal
attacks, primarily because it's not who I am, because I think it's beneath the
office that I'm seeking but also because I don't want to embarrass my kids.''

But in the past week you've mocked Mr. Trump's tan. You've made fun of his
spelling. You called him a con artist. You suggested he wet himself backstage at
the last debate, along with other vulgar jokes and jabs. So what happened?

RUBIO: Yes, you know, Bret, let me say something. This campaign for the last
year Donald Trump has basically mocked everybody with personal attacks. He has
done so to people that are sitting on the stage today. He has done so about
people that are disabled. He has done it about every candidate in this race.

So if there is anyone who has ever deserved to be attacked that way, it has been
Donald Trump, for the way he has treated people in the campaign.

Now that said, I would much prefer to have a policy debate. I hope that's what
we will have here tonight. Let's have a policy debate...

TRUMP: And we will.

RUBIO: ... let's talk about Donald Trump's strategy and my strategy and Ted's
strategy and John Kasich's strategy when it comes to ISIS. And on health care
and on the important issues facing this country.

But let's be honest too about all this. The media has given these personal
attacks that Donald Trump has made an incredible amount of coverage. Let's start
talking again about the issues that matter to this country. I'm ready to do that
starting right here right now tonight.

BAIER: Mr. Trump, your response?

TRUMP: Well, I also happened to call him a lightweight, OK? And I have said
that. So I would like to take that back. He is really not that much of a
lightweight. And as far as -- and I have to say this, I have to say this. He hit
my hands. Nobody has ever hit my hands. I have never heard of this. Look at
those hands. Are they small hands?

(LAUGHTER)

TRUMP: And he referred to my hands, if they are small, something else must be
small. I guarantee you there is no problem. I guarantee.

BAIER: OK. Moving on.

KELLY: OK, Senator Cruz, you say that you are the true conservative in this
race. But 15 states have voted now, and you have won only four of them. You have
lost repeatedly with what is supposed to be your core voter groups, including
evangelicals and conservatives.

Hasn't your brand of conservatism been rejected by an electorate that appears to
be more taken with Mr. Trump's populist message?

CRUZ: Well, Megyn, you know, at the end of the day for the folks at home, this
is not about the insults back and forth between the candidates. This is not
about what attacks we can throw at each other. This is the people at home who
are struggling through seven years of Barack Obama.

This is the single moms who are working two and three jobs, 28, 29 hours a week
because their hours have been forcibly reduced because of Obamacare. This is the
truck drivers and the steel workers and the mechanics with calluses on their
hands who have seen their wages not grow year after year after year while the
cost of living goes up.

This is all the young people coming out of school with student loans up to their
eyeballs that aren't able to find a job.

And I don't think the people of America are interested in a bunch of bickering
school children. They are interested in solutions, not slogans. It's easy to
say, make things better, make things great. You can even print it and put it on
a baseball cap.

But the question is, do you understand the principles that made America great in
the first place? As president, I will repeal every word of Obamacare. I will
pull back the regulators that are killing small businesses.

And we will pass a simple flat tax and abolish the IRS. And what that's going to
do, Megyn, is small businesses are going to explode. We are going to see
millions of high-paying jobs. We are going to see wages going up. We are going
to see opportunity.

That's where our focus needs to be. That's where my focus is. And that is why
our campaign is the only campaign that over and over again has beaten Donald
Trump to date, and it's why we are the one campaign that going forward can and
will beat Donald Trump in this election.

KELLY: Go ahead, Mr. Trump. TRUMP: I have heard Ted say that over and over again
on television, that he is the only one that can beat me. Just, for the record, I
have won 10. He has won three or four. Last week, in fact, on Tuesday, I was a
half a million votes higher than him. I was a million votes higher than Marco, 1
million votes. That's a lot of votes. And was by far in first place.

So I keep hearing that he is the only one that can beat me but he is getting
beaten very, very badly. So where does this come from? Where does it come from?

KELLY: Go ahead, Senator Rubio.

RUBIO: Yes, I would just say a couple of things. There is no doubt that Donald
has done well in these elections. There is no doubt about that. The numbers are
there.

Here is what the numbers also say. Two-thirds of the people who have cast a vote
in a Republican primary or caucus have voted against you. They do not want you
to be our nominee.RUBIO: And, the reason why is because we are not going to turn
over the conservative movement, or the party of Lincoln or Reagan, for example,
to someone whose positions are not conservative. To someone who last week
defended Planned Parenthood for 30 seconds a debate stage. To someone, for
example, that has no ideas on foreign -- someone who thinks the nuclear triad is
a rock band from the 1980's.

TRUMP: Oh yeah, you're...

RUBIO: ... To someone who time and again on issue after issue has not proven
that he has the principals...

(BELL RINGING)

RUBIO: ... That outline what the conservative movement has been about. And, as
Ted said, the things that made America great.

America is great because of the conservative principles of limited government
and free enterprise, and a strong national defense...

KELLY: ... OK...

RUBIO: ... And, our nominee needs to be someone that stands by those things...

KELLY: ... Alright...

RUBIO: ... Donald has not demonstrated that.

KELLY: ... Go ahead, Mr. Trump, and then we're going to have to go to Governor
Kasich.

(APPLAUSE)

TRUMP: Very nice words, but happens to be wrong. CNN just came out with a poll
two days ago that...

RUBIO: ... (INAUDIBLE)

TRUMP: ... That national poll -- excuse me...

RUBIO: ... (INAUDIBLE)

TRUMP: ... The national poll -- a national poll where he's at 15, he's at 14...
RUBIO: ... (INAUDIBLE)...

TRUMP: ... And, I'm at 49, so when he says 75 percent, that would mean that 80
percent of the people don't dig you, and I'm back down to 50...

RUBIO: ... Of all the people on this stage, he performs the worst against
Hillary Clinton.

TRUMP: Wrong...

RUBIO: ... If you're our nominee, we will lose...

TRUMP: ... I beat Hillary Clinton. I beat Hillary Clinton in many polls...

RUBIO: ... You lose by (INAUDIBLE) points (ph). She will wipe you out.

TRUMP: I beat Hillary Clinton in many polls...

RUBIO: If you're our nominee (INAUDIBLE)...

KELLY: ... Hold on, Senator, hold on...

TRUMP: ... I think I'm talking...

RUBIO: ... Oh, excuse me (INAUDIBLE)...

TRUMP: ... I beat Hillary Clinton...

KELLY: ... Hold on, hold on, hold on...

TRUMP: ... I hope you think (INAUDIBLE)...

KELLY: ... The audience cannot understand when you're talking over each other.
Finish your point, Mr. Trump.

TRUMP: ... I beat Hillary Clinton in many polls. The Cue (ph) poll just came
out. I beat Hillary Clinton in a recent Fox poll, I beat Hillary Clinton in USA
Today, I beat her today in a poll in Ohio. I beat -- I'm the only one that beats
Hillary Clinton.

I beat -- and I have not started on Hillary yet. Believe me, I will...

(CHEERING)

TRUMP: ... start soon. I haven't even started.

KELLY: OK.

BAIER: Governor Kasich, today you admitted that you have a narrow path to the
nomination through a contested convention. Today also Mitt Romney proposed that
Republicans should vote for Senator Rubio in Florida. They should vote for you
in Ohio. They should vote for Senator Cruz in states that he can beat Mr. Trump
to prevent Mr. Trump from getting the nomination.

So, do you buy Romney's blueprint, and can you say tonight to your Florida
supporters that they should vote for Senator Rubio to get a contested
convention?

KASICH: You know, this so much about process. It frankly is boring to me. I
would like it clear though, since we're talking about polls, I beat Hillary
Clinton by more than 11 points, and the reason it happens...

(CHEERING)

TRUMP: ... In one poll...

KASICH: ... The reason it happens...

TRUMP: ... In one poll...

KASICH: ... You know, the reason is because, as the Democrats tell me all the
time, I can get the crossover votes. You see, because throughout this campaign
I've talked about issues, I have never tried to go and get into these scrums
that we're seeing here on the stage. And, people say everywhere I go, ''you seem
to be the adult on the stage.''

(APPLAUSE)

In terms of -- you know, Mitt Romney's a great guy, but he doesn't determine my
strategy. The fact of the matter is I'm running for president because I worked
hard to fix this country when I was in Washington as the Chairman of the Budget
Committee where we had some of the most significant job growth after we balanced
the budget.

We had wages going up, it was very successful in Ohio. Our wages grow faster
than the national average. We're up over 400,000 jobs. We paid down, back in the
old days, they paid down half a trillion dollars of the national debt. It's a
formula that works. And, I believe that formula will work when I return to
Washington as the president.

And, by the way, I won't need on the job training because I know how to do all
of this, and within the first 100 days I will have a plan that will pass the
Congress because...

(BELL RINGING)

KASICH: ... It is reasonable, and I can bring both sides together...

(APPLAUSE)

BAIER: ... But Governor, this is all about process. For voters, they need to see
a path to get to the nomination if they're going to support you.

On Super Tuesday you finished in single digits in nine out of 11 states. So, you
can see that your path is through a contested convention. How do you...

KASICH: ... Well, Bret, I think we're all really there. I mean, the simple fact
is that, you know, you all wrote me off. You wrote me off before I even got to
New Hampshire, then when I finished in New Hampshire you wrote me off in the
South, then you wrote me off in Super Tuesday.

I split delegates in Vermont with Donald Trump, I finished second in
Massachusetts, and we won delegates in Virginia. But, guess what? It's now March
Madness and we're heading up North to the place -- to my turf, OK?

(CHEERING)

KASICH: And, let me just tell you this, I will win Ohio, and I am going to move
all across this country, and over time as people begin to finally hear my
message -- you know what people say, Bret, to me all the time?

Why don't they give you any time on the debate stage? Why is that?(CHEERING)

KASICH: So now all of a sudden, I'm starting to get it, and what I want the
people to know is, I know how to bring people together, Republicans and
Democrats. I have successfully, both at the federal level and the state level
brought economic growth, wage growth, and economic security to this country.

And I want to go back and do it again, and I'm going to keep talking about my
message of bringing people together and motivating people in the neighborhoods
that realize they don't need somebody from Washington galloping in. There are
many things they can do where they live, because the strength of our country is
in our neighborhoods and our families. And I'm going to keep doing this.

(APPLAUSE)

BAIER: Thank you.

WALLACE: Well, then, we want to focus now on the economy, which is one of the
top issues on Facebook, with 6.6 million people discussing it online. A lot of
that conversation is happening here in Detroit, where the unemployment rate is
10.9 percent. That's more than double the national average.

Senator Rubio, you have taken to calling Mr. Trump a con artist who portrays
himself as a hero to working people while he's really been, in your words,
''sticking it'' to the American workers for 40 years. But he has built a big
company that employs thousands of people. Question. How many jobs have you
created?

RUBIO: Well, first of all, government doesn't...

(AUDIENCE BOOS)

First of all, Chris, my point is exactly right. He has spent a career of
convincing Americans that he's something that he's not in exchange for their
money. Now he's trying to do the same in exchange for their country. This is a
fact. He talks about these great businesses that he's built. He inherited over
$100 million.

TRUMP: Wrong. Wrong.

RUBIO: And with that money, he lost more money than he made.

WALLACE: Mr. Trump, it's not your turn. You'll get your turn, sir.

(CROSSTALK)

RUBIO: He can start tonight by announcing that all the Donald Trump clothing
will no longer be made in China and in Mexico, but will be made here in the
United States.

(APPLAUSE)

And on the issue of job creation, I find this interesting. The private sector
creates jobs. The jobs of those of us in public service are to put in place
policies that allow the economy to grow.

That's the problem with the Democratic Party. They think government is what
creates jobs. Government does not create jobs.

Now, the way you create jobs is you make America the easiest and the best place
in the world to start a business or to expand an existing business. If you go on
my website, marcorubio.com, you will see a real plan to fix our taxes, to roll
back regulations, to repeal and replace Obamacare, not just lines around the
states. Serious policies and proposals.

WALLACE: Sir? Mr. Trump, I'd like you to respond. You have 30 seconds to
respond. But as part of that, could you respond to his specific assertion about
Trump Collection clothes, which you say some of it is made in Mexico?

TRUMP: This little guy has lied so much...

RUBIO: Here we go.

TRUMP: ... about my record.

RUBIO: Here we go. It's personal.

(AUDIENCE BOOS)

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: He has lied so much about my record.

WALLACE: Mr. Rubio -- Senator Rubio, why don't you let him finish?

TRUMP: And I will tell you this. First of all, I got a call from my sister and
brother tonight, and they said we had no idea Dad gave you $200 million. Believe
me, I started off with $1 million. I built a company that's worth more than $10
billion. And I say it not in a bragging way, but that's the kind of thinking we
need.

Very low debt, tremendous cash flow. My financials are all -- they're all in
there with the federal elections. You've seen them. Everybody has seen them. I
say it only because that's the kind of thinking this country needs with $19
trillion in debit. Believe me.

(APPLAUSE)

WALLACE: But wait one second. Specifically and quickly on the question, will you
promise that you will -- and how soon will you move your clothing collection,
the clothes that are made in China and Mexico?

TRUMP: They devalue their currencies. I will do that. And by the way, I have
been doing it more and more. But they devalue their currencies, in particular
China. Mexico is doing a big number now, also. Japan is unbelievable what
they're doing.

They devalue their currencies, and they make it impossible for clothing-makers
in this country to do clothing in this country. And if you look at what's
happened on Seventh Avenue, and you look at what's happened in New York with the
garment industry, so much of the clothing now comes out from Vietnam, China, and
other places. And it's all because of devaluation.

By the way, the Trans-Pacific, if you look at the TPP, a total disaster, which,
by the way, Marco is in favor of, they need -- it is a disaster for our country.
It's trying to be approved by various people, including President Obama. And
I'll tell you something. The biggest problem with that is: They don't take into
concurrence the devaluation. They're devaluing their currency.

WALLACE: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Trump. Senator Rubio?

TRUMP: And they're killing -- they're going to...

(CROSSTALK)

WALLACE: Wait, wait, Senator Rubio.

RUBIO: The answer is, he's not going to do it. And you know why? Because there
are plenty of clothing makers in America.

(APPLAUSE)

(CROSSTALK)

RUBIO: If you go on my website, marcorubio.com, everything we have on there is
made in America. The reason why he makes it in China or Mexico is because he can
make more money on it. That's why he's doing it.

And the second point, you see what happens, again, when you challenge him on a
policy issue. You asked him about the economy, and the first thing he does is
launch an attack about some little guy thing. Because he doesn't have answers.

TRUMP: No, no. I have very good answers.

RUBIO: And he's asking us to make him the president of the United States of
America.

(CROSSTALK) (APPLAUSE)

RUBIO: This is not a game.

TRUMP: I know what's happening with the economy. You don't know a thing.

RUBIO: Well, then answer the economy question.

TRUMP: You haven't employed in your life one person.

RUBIO: But he doesn't answer the employment question.TRUMP: I have employed tens
of thousands of people.

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: You haven't employed one person.

RUBIO: You ever heard of Trump Steaks? You ever heard of Trump Vodka?

TRUMP: Oh, you know what? You know what? Take a look at Trump Steaks.

RUBIO: All of these companies he has ruined.

TRUMP: By the way, that's the other thing...

RUBIO: Trump Steaks is gone. You have ruined these companies.

TRUMP: Mitt Romney...

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: ... false, totally false. And now the funny thing is he didn't talk about
the hundreds of really successful jobs, the buildings all over the world that
have made a fortune.

(CROSSTALK)

WALLACE: I have a policy question for you, sir.

RUBIO: Let's see if he answers it.

TRUMP: I will. Don't worry about it, Marco. Don't worry about it. Don't worry
about it little Marco, I will.

RUBIO: All right, well, let's hear it big Donald.

TRUMP: Don't worry about it, little Marco.

(CROSSTALK)

WALLACE: Gentlemen. Gentlemen.

(CROSSTALK)

WALLACE: You have got to do better than this. TRUMP: This guy has a number one
-- the number one absentee record in the United States...

WALLACE: Mr. Trump, I would like to ask you a policy question.

TRUMP: He doesn't show up to vote.

WALLACE: Your proposed tax cut...

TRUMP: That's why the people in Florida do not like him.

WALLACE: Mr. Trump, your proposed tax cut would add $10 trillion to the nation's
debt over 10 years, even if the economy grows the way that you say it will. You
insist that you could make up for a good deal of that, you say, by cutting
waste, fraud, and abuse.

TRUMP: Correct.

WALLACE: Like what? And please be specific.

TRUMP: Department of Education. We're cutting Common Core. We're getting rid of
Common Core. We're bringing education locally. Department of Environmental
Protection. We are going to get rid are of it in almost every form. We're going
to have little tidbits left but we're going to take a tremendous amount out.

We have various other things. If you look at the IRS, if you look at every
single agency, we can cut it down, and I mean really cut it down and save. The
waste, fraud, and abuse is massive.

Larry Kudlow, great guy, everybody respects him, said my plan for taxes and tax
cutting is the best by far of everybody.

WALLACE: But, Mr. Trump, Mr. Trump, your numbers don't add up. Please put up
full screen number four. The Education Department, you talk about cutting, the
total budget for the education department is $78 billion.

And that includes Pell grants for low-income students and aid to states for
special education. I assume you wouldn't cut those things. The entire budget for
the EPA, the Environmental Protection Agency, $8 billion.

TRUMO: OK.

WALLACE: The deficit this year is $544 billion. That's more than a half trillion
dollars. Your numbers don't add up, sir.

TRUMP: Let me explain something. Because of the fact that the pharmaceutical
companies -- because of the fact that the pharmaceutical companies are not
mandated to bid properly, they have hundreds of billions of dollars in waste.

We don't bid properly. We don't have proper bidding procedures. The reason we
don't is because they take care of all of the senators, all of the congressman,
and they don't bid. They don't go out to bid. WALLACE: Mr. Trump...

TRUMP: Take a look -- excuse me. You are talking about hundreds of billions of
dollars...

WALLACE: No, you are not.

TRUMP: ... if we went out to the proper bid. Of course you are.

WALLACE: No, you're not, sir. Let's put up full screen number 2.

You say that Medicare could save $300 billion a year negotiating lower drug
prices. But Medicare total only spends $78 billion a year on drugs. Sir, that's
the facts. You are talking about saving more money on Medicare prescription
drugs...

TRUMP: I'm saying saving through negotiation throughout the economy, you will
save $300 billion a year.

WALLACE: But that doesn't really cut the federal deficit.

TRUMP: And that's a huge -- of course it is. We are going to buy things for less
money. Of course it is. That works out...

WALLACE: That's the only money that we buy -- the only drugs that we pay for is
through Medicare.

TRUMP: I'm not only talking about drugs, I'm talking about other things. We will
save $300 billion a year if we properly negotiate. We don't do that. We don't
negotiate. We don't negotiate anything.

KASICH: Can I...

WALLACE: No. I promise I will get to you in a moment, sir.

Senator Cruz, one of centerpieces of your campaign, in fact, you mentioned it
again tonight, is that you will abolish the IRS. Question though, who will
collect the taxes that you are still calling for? Who will oversee to make sure
that people pay the taxes that they rightfully owe? And who will check on the
various tax deductions and tax credits that you still want?

CRUZ: So my simple flat tax I have rolled out in precise detail how it will
operate where every American can fill out our taxes on a postcard. And if you
want to actually see the postcard, see all the details, you can find them on our
Web site. It's tedcruz.org.

When he we get rid of all the corporate welfare, all the subsidies, all the
carve-outs in the IRS code, it dramatically simplifies it. And under Obama, the
IRS has become so corrupt and so politicized we need to abolish it all together.

Now, at the end of that there will still be an office in the Treasury Department
to receive the postcards but it will be dramatically simpler. CRUZ: And let me
take a moment, Chris, to go back to go back to this exchange that was going on.

In between all of the insults, let me point out the specificity that was
lacking. It's very easy to say, ''Let's cut waste, fraud, and abuse.'' I've
rolled out a detailed plan to cut $500 billion in federal spending, specifying
exactly what I would cut.

(APPLAUSE)

It's easy to say it, but one of the great disconnects to all the people, all of
the voters, I understand the folks who are supporting Donald right now. You're
angry. You're angry at Washington, and he uses angry rhetoric.

But for 40 years, Donald has been part of the corruption in Washington that
you're angry about.

(APPLAUSE)

And you're not going to stop the corruption in Washington by supporting someone
who has supported liberal Democrats for four decades, from Jimmy Carter to John
Kerry to Hillary Clinton. You're not going to stop the corruption and the
cronyism by supporting someone who has used government power for private gain.
Instead, we need a president who stands with the American people.

(APPLAUSE)

WALLACE: Governor Kasich, I promise I will get to you. But you do get 30 seconds
to respond, Mr. Trump.

TRUMP: Well, all of a sudden, I hear for 40 years I've been involved in
Washington. I have been supporting people for many years. And these people have
been politicians, and they've been on both sides, Democrats, Republicans,
liberals, conservatives. I've supported everybody, because, until recently, I
wasn't a politician, and I hope maybe you don't all consider me a politician
right now. I hate the term politician.

But I've been supporting politicians. A recent article somewhere said Donald
Trump is a world-class businessman who goes out and he does get along with
everybody. I've supported Democrats, and I've supported Republicans. And as a
businessman, I owed that to my company, to my family, to my workers, to
everybody to get along.

Part of the problem we have in Washington, Chris...

WALLACE: Mr. Trump...

TRUMP: ... is it's total gridlock. Nobody gets along. We need people to get
along. We need to be able to get things done.

(APPLAUSE)

WALLACE: Governor Kasich, Democrats, as you know, will make income inequality a
big issue in the general election. You support raising the minimum wage,
although you say not to the $15 an hour that Democrats are talking about. Mr.
Trump opposes any increase because he says it will price American workers out of
the world market. Is he wrong about that? No increase in the minimum wage?

KASICH: Well, well, wait a minute, first of all, I didn't say I was for an
increase in the federal minimum wage. I said in Ohio we increased it modestly
every single year. So I'm not for a federal minimum wage increase.

WALLACE: But you did talk about states doing it.

KASICH: Well, states -- if states want to do it, they ought to sit down with
businesspeople and the lawmakers and figure out what will work. But hold on a
second here with everything else.

I'm the only person on this stage who actually was the chief architect of
balancing the federal budget. It's not a theory for me. It's not -- it's not
some -- you have to know how to put everything together. And you know, I spent
10 years of my life to get there, and I did not do that because I'm worshiping
at some balanced budget shrine.

The reason I did it is when you have commonsense regulations, lower taxes on
individuals and businesses, and you have a fiscal plan that makes sense, the job
creators will expand employment. And what happened? When I was there, the jobs
were exploding. Bill Clinton's tried to take credit for it. When I went to Ohio,
we're up 400,000 jobs. It's the same formula.

But it isn't easy. I fought the entire Washington establishment and won, because
when you balance a budget, you must affect every single thing. Everything in the
federal government specifically. You cannot get there with theories or broad
statements, and you have to be willing to take the heat. In fact, I fought a
Republican president, who I thought was not offering constructive proposals to
fix this economy.

So when we talk about all this, there's one person on this stage and one person
who's been a candidate for president in either party that restored economic
strength, growth, a balanced budget, paid down debt, cut taxes, the things that
people in this country want. No theories. Reality.

(APPLAUSE)

WALLACE: Thank you, Governor.

(APPLAUSE)

KELLY: All right. Let's talk immigration for a little bit. Senator Cruz, let's
start with you. You have repeatedly touted how you have stood shoulder to
shoulder with Senator Jeff Sessions to fight illegal immigration and amnesty.
But Senator Sessions just endorsed Donald Trump. If voters want Jeff
Sessions-style immigration policies, isn't their choice rather clear?

CRUZ: Yes, their choice is very clear. If you look to the actual record -- you
know, Donald mentioned a moment ago that he was just doing business when he was
writing checks to liberal Democrats. But that's not, in fact, the checks he was
writing.

Listen, we could all understand if you write a check to a city commission
because you're looking for a zoning waiver on building a building. That may be
corrupt, but you could understand real estate developers doing that.CRUZ: That's
not what Donald Trump did. Donald Trump supported Jimmy Carter over Ronald
Reagan. Donald supported John Kerry over George W. Bush. If you don't like
Obamacare, Donald Trump funded Harry Reid and Nancy Pelosi taking over Congress
to pass Obamacare.

On immigration, if you don't like amnesty, if you don't like the Gang of Eight,
Donald Trump funded five of the eight members of the Gang of Eight $50,000.

And let's talk about this election. The choice Republican primary voters are
making is who is best prepared to stand up to Hillary Clinton and beat Hillary
Clinton. Donald Trump has written checks to Hillary Clinton not once, not twice,
not three times. Ten times. And four of those checks were not to her Senate
campaign. It wasn't that she was the New York senator and it was a cost of doing
business. It was to her presidential campaign.

Donald Trump in 2008 wrote four checks to elect Hillary Clinton as president.

KELLY: OK.

CRUZ: So I'd like to ask Donald, why did you write checks to Hillary Clinton to
be president in 2008? It wasn't for business. And how can you stand on a debate
stage now with her and say you don't think she should be president?

(APPLAUSE)

TRUMP: Actually, it was for business. It was. It was. It was for business. I
pride myself, including outside of the United States. I'm doing almost 120 deals
outside of the -- which I hope to be able to stop very soon and let my children
handle it -- but we're doing many, many deals outside of the United States.

I support politicians. In 2008, I supported Hillary Clinton. I supported many
other people, by the way. And that was because of the fact that I'm in business.
I did support very heavily Ronald Reagan. I also supported George Bush, by the
way.

KELLY: All right. Mr. Trump...

CRUZ: But what would you say...

KELLY: Well, stand by -- stand by, Senator Cruz.

CRUZ: ... to Hillary Clinton on the debate stage when you wrote her a check in
2008, wrote her four checks to be president?

TRUMP: Let me tell you, something, Ted. The last person that Hillary Clinton
wants to face is Donald Trump. That I can...

(APPLAUSE)

KELLY: Let's move on. And with all due respect, we have -- we have questions. We
have questions.

TRUMP: That I can tell you.

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: No, no, no. Hold on. Hold on. We can do more of this later. Mr. Trump,
hi.

TRUMP: Hello.

KELLY: How are you doing?

TRUMP: Nice to be with you, Megyn.

KELLY: Great to have you here.

TRUMP: You're looking well. You're looking well.

KELLY: As are you.

(APPLAUSE)

Back in January, you gave an off-the-record interview to the New York Times. It
was apparently audiotaped. Now, a recent report in Buzzfeed citing sources at
the Times reports that in that interview you expressed flexibility when it comes
to your immigration policy, specifically with respect to your promise to deport
the 11 million people who are now living here illegally. You have suggested that
you may have expressed some flexibility when it comes to the size of the wall
that you want to build. But did you tell them, specifically, that you are
flexible when it comes to your deportation plan?

TRUMP: I don't know exactly what -- when you talk about off the record. First of
all, Buzzfeed? They were the ones that said under no circumstances will I run
for president. And were they wrong. But a lot of people said that.

Then, I did have a meeting with the editorial board of the New York Times, a
very nice meeting. Many of those things were off the record, I think at their
suggestion and my suggestion. And I think being off the record is a very
important thing. I think it's a very, very powerful thing.

And I will say this. These three gentlemen have gone off the record many times
with reporters. And I think they want to honor it, and I would always honor
that.

I will say, though, in terms of immigration -- and almost anything else -- there
always has to be some, you know, tug and pull and deal. And, you know, when I
watch Ted stand on the Senate floor, I had great respect for what he did. He
stood there for a day-and-a- half or something. In the meantime, what came of
it? Nothing. You have to be able to have some flexibility, some negotiation.

Now, sometimes you ask for more than you want and you negotiate down to the
point. I may have discussed something like that with the New York Times, but I
would never release off-the-record conversations. I don't think it's fair,
frankly, to do that to anybody.

KELLY: How flexible are you on this issue?

(AUDIENCE BOOS)

TRUMP: Not very flexible. No, not very flexible. I give the example -- I'm going
to build a wall. I'm the one that wants the wall. I'm the one that can build the
wall.

(APPLAUSE)

It's going to get built. And by the way, Mexico is going to pay for the wall. I
can tell you that. Mexico is going to pay for the wall.

(APPLAUSE)

But -- and I used an example. And this isn't necessarily what was said, but
whatever was said, the wall's 50 feet high. Is it going to be 45 feet or 40
feet? That could very well be. That could very well -- he wants it to be higher.

(LAUGHTER)

That could very well be. But there's always give and take. There's always
negotiation. And the best negotiator that knows what he's doing will make a
great deal. But we need give and take in government. If you don't have give and
take, you're never going to agree on anything.

(APPLAUSE)

KELLY: Senator Rubio, you not only supported the failed immigration reform
effort through the Gang of Eight, but you're still on record as favoring an
eventual path to citizenship for those who are here illegally. And in
addition...

(AUDIENCE BOOS)

... you favored in-state tuition for Florida illegal immigrants. You've been
hitting Mr. Trump hard on this flexibility discussion with the New York Times,
but his supporters might say at least his opening stance was tough.

RUBIO: Well, first of all, let me say that on the issue of the off-the-record,
that's not up to the New York Times. That's up to you, Donald. If tonight you
tell the New York Times to release the audio, they will do it, and we can
exactly see what your true views are on immigration...

TRUMP: Fine (ph).

RUBIO: ... because it is a major issue, in your campaign that you've made a
center issue. Now, as far as my record on it is concerned, I absolutely want to
solve this issue. And I did the best we could in a Senate that was controlled by
liberal Democrats and Harry Reid in the hopes that the House, made up of
conservatives, would take it up and make it even stronger. And I said that
repeatedly at the time.

I'm not just saying that now; I said it throughout that process. We do need to
do with this issue. (AUDIENCE BOOS)

RUBIO: When I'm president it will not be dealt with the way it was done in the
Senate.

It will be done first and foremost by bringing illegal immigration under control
and proving it to the American people. And only after that is done can anything
else happen.

And it will be something the American people support. We'll see what they are
willing to support. It's not going to be an executive order and we're not going
to ram it down their throats.

KELLY: Mr. Trump, we will let respond, but will you release the tapes? Will you
authorize of The Times to release the tapes?

TRUMP: I will say one thing, what Marco said is -- I understand it. He is
talking about a little give and take and a little negotiation. And you know
what? That's OK. That's not the worst thing in the world.

There is nothing wrong with that. I happen to be much stronger on illegal
immigration. Sheriff Joe Arpaio endorsed me. And if he endorses you, believe me,
you are the strongest, from Arizona.

But give and take is OK. And I thought what he said is OK. We may differ on the
degree. But what he said to me is OK.

KELLY: Will you release the tapes?

TRUMP: No. I never do that. I would not do that. I don't think -- I have too
much respect -- if I deal with you off the record, if I deal with Bret or Chris
off the record, I have too much respect for that process to say, just release
everything. I would not do that.

KELLY: OK. Stand by. We're going to continue this right after the break. We have
more.

BAIER: Coming up, more with Megyn on immigration, plus questions on other top
issues, including the war on terror. The ''FOX News Republican Presidential
Debate Live from Detroit'' continues after a quick break.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

KELLY: Welcome back everybody to the FOX News Republican presidential debate,
live from the FOX theater here in Detroit. Let's get back now to the questions.

Mr. Trump, your campaign website to this day argues that more visas for highly
skilled workers would, quote, ''decimate American workers''. However, at the
CNBC debate, you spoke enthusiastically in favor of these visas. So, which is
it?

TRUMP: I'm changing. I'm changing. We need highly skilled people in this
country, and if we can't do it, we'll get them in. But, and we do need in
Silicon Valley, we absolutely have to have.

So, we do need highly skilled, and one of the biggest problems we have is people
go to the best colleges. They'll go to Harvard, they'll go to Stanford, they'll
go to Wharton, as soon as they're finished they'll get shoved out. They want to
stay in this country. They want to stay here desperately, they're not able to
stay here. For that purpose, we absolutely have to be able to keep the brain
power in this country.

(APPLAUSE)

KELLY: So you abandoning the position on your website...

TRUMP: ... I'm changing it, and I'm softening the position because we have to
have talented people in this country.

KELLY: And you're not releasing the discussion with the New York Times behind
closed doors...

TRUMP: ... That is correct.

KELLY: Which will have some asking whether, on your immigration policies, you're
really just playing to people's fantasies, which is a tactic...

TRUMP: ... No, I'm not playing.

KELLY: ... you praised in your book, The Art of the Deal.

TRUMP: I'm not playing to anybody's fantasies, I'm playing to the fact that our
country is in trouble, that we have a tremendous problem with crime. The border
is a disaster, it's like a piece of Swiss cheese. We're going to stop it, we're
going to stop people from coming into our country illegally. We're going to stop
it.

(APPLAUSE) (CHEERING)

KELLY: Senator Cruz, not long ago you propose quintupling the number of these
foreign worker visas. After you announced for president, you reversed yourself,
citing reports that the program was being abused. But, that abuse had been
around long before your 180. In fact, it was so bad that just a few months
earlier that a bipartisan group of senators called for an investigation and you
declined to join them.

Isn't it a good thing that the American public didn't trust Ted on that one?

CRUZ: Well, the abuse of the H1-B program has been rampant. On the face of that
H1-B abuse, I have proposed, and promised as president that I will impose a 180
day moratorium on the H1B program to implement a comprehensive investigation and
audit because you got U.S. companies that are firing American workers, bringing
in foreign workers, and forcing them to train their replacements.

And, I would note that is not dissimilar to what we discovered at the last
debate concerning the hotel that Donald owns down in Florida. Down in Florida
that hotel has brought in hundreds of foreign workers, and afterwards it was
really striking.

I watched the CNN interview Donald did where he explained, he said, well the
problem is you can't find Americans who are qualified, or who want to work as
waiters and waitresses. Now, let me ask the people here, how many people have
worked as a waiter or waitress?

(APPLAUSE)

CRUZ: Millions across this country. That is an astonishing statement. You know,
Marco's Dad started as a bartender. My Dad started washing dishes, and yet, you
know how many Americans wanted those jobs?

(BELL RINGING)

CRUZ: Roughly 300 applied, Donald hired 17. And, that's why this New York Times
tape is so troubling because what's been reported is that Donald told the
Editorial Board of the New York Times what I'm saying on immigration, I don't
believe. I'm not going to build a wall, I'm not going to deport people, this is
all just rhetoric for the voters.

Now, if he didn't say that, he has an easy solution. Simply release the tape.

But, for everyone at home who's mad at politicians that lied to us, Donald's
record right now as he standing here...

KELLY: ... OK.

CRUZ: ... His record right now is one of repeatedly hiring illegal aliens...

KELLY: ... Times up, sir...

CRUZ: ... abusing (ph) American workers...

KELLY: ... Go ahead, Mr. Trump.

TRUMP: First of all I've had tens of thousands of people working for me, most of
which are -- 98, 97, 98 percent of the people in this country, from this
country. I'm very proud of it. You have a club in Palm Beach, Florida called the
Mar-a-Lago Club, it's a very, very successful club. It has a very short season,
it's called, the Season, and it goes from November until March.

It's a few months, five months at the most. People don't want a short-term job.
They don't want -- so, we will bring people in, and we will send the people out.
All done legally, all done with the process that's...

(BELL RINGING)

TRUMP: ... Approved by government in Palm Beach, or West Palm Beach. We bring
people in, we bring them out. We want to hire as many Americans as we can, but
they don't want part-time, very short part-time jobs.

KELLY: Understood. Thank you.

RUBIO: That's not accurate. I'm sorry, Megyn, that's not accurate. That's my --
there were at least 300 Americans that applied last year, none of them were
hired. Some of them...

TRUMP: ... Wrong...

RUBIO: ... have been interviewed...

TRUMP: ... That's wrong.

RUBIO: ... They were not hired...

TRUMP: ... Wrong...

RUBIO: ... And, here's why he does it this way, let me explain why he
(INAUDIBLE) H2-B...

TRUMP: ... Wrong...

RUBIO: ... Because when you bring them in this way, when you bring someone in on
one of these visas they can't go work for anybody else. They either work for you
or they have to go back home. You basically have them captive, so you don't have
to worry about competing for higher wages with another hotel down the street.
And, that's why you bring workers from abroad.

You argue that you're here to fight on behalf of the American worker, but when
you have chances to help the American worker... (BELL RINGING)...

RUBIO: ... but when you have chances to help the American workers, you're making
your clothes overseas and you're hiring your workers from overseas.

(APPLAUSE)

KELLY: Go ahead, sir.

TRUMP: The -- the -- the other hotels during the season, they do the same thing.
They take in a lot of people, because you can't get them. They take in a lot of
people. Long-term employees, we don't do that, but short-term employees, we have
no choice but to do it, and other hotels in that very, very hot area. It is a
very hot area.

RUBIO: There were Americans in that hot area.

TRUMP: It's very, very hard to get people. But other hotels do the exact same
thing. And just so you understand, just again, this is a legal process. This is
a procedure. It's part of the law. I take advantage of that. There's nothing
wrong with it. We have no choice.

KELLY: All right.

CRUZ: Donald, you could resolve this issue very quickly by simply...

(AUDIENCE BOOS)

... releasing the New York Times tape. Because, listen, maybe it's right.

TRUMP: This wasn't on the subject.

CRUZ: ... that you didn't tell them you're misleading the American people. If
that's the case...

TRUMP: Tapes were not on the subject, but that's...

CRUZ: If you didn't tell them that, the tapes will prove you're innocent.

KELLY: OK.

CRUZ: But if, in fact, you went to Manhattan and said I'm lying to the American
people, then the voters have a right to know.

TRUMP: No, no. You're the liar. You're the lying guy up here.

(CROSSTALK)

CRUZ: Because we've been lied to too many times.

TRUMP: You're the -- you're the one. You're the one.

CRUZ: Why don't you release the tapes? Release the tapes.

TRUMP: You're the one. Now, let me just tell you. Let me just tell you.

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: Excuse me. Excuse me. I've given my answer, Lyin' Ted. I've given my
answer.

KELLY: All right. Let's leave it at that.

(AUDIENCE BOOS)

Let's leave it at that. We have more to get to.

(AUDIENCE BOOS)

BAIER: Gentlemen, the next topic to discuss is terrorism. Senator Rubio, ISIS is
a big topic of conversation on Facebook. We have a map that shows the
conservation about ISIS around the country. You proposed sending a larger number
of American ground troops to help defeat ISIS in Syria and Iraq...

RUBIO: That's correct, and Libya.

BAIER: ... but military commanders say the biggest ISIS threat to Europe in
particular now is coming from Libya, not Syria.

RUBIO: Correct.

BAIER: So just to be clear, if you're for putting more U.S. ground troops in
Iraq and Syria, are you also ready to send U.S. ground troops on the ground in
Libya?

RUBIO: Well, Bret, what I've argued from the very beginning is ISIS -- in order
to defeat ISIS, you must deny them operating spaces. This is how ISIS or any
radical group, for that matter, can grow. It's how Al Qaida was able to carry
out 9/11, is that the Taliban gave them an operating space in Afghanistan.

Today that operating space has largely been based in Iraq and Syria, but I've
been warning about the Libyan presence for the better part of two years. So they
need to be targeted wherever they have an operating space. They do need to be
defeated on the ground by a ground force made up primarily of Sunni Arabs
themselves. This is a radical Sunni movement. They can only be defeated if they
are driven out and the territory is held by Sunni Arabs. But it will require a
specific number of American special operators, in combination with an increase
in air strikes. And that will include, if necessary, operating spaces in Libya,
which, in fact, they are using to project into the Sinai against Egypt and
ultimately into Europe, as well.

BAIER: Governor Kasich, would you put ground troops in Libya?

KASICH: Well, first of all, just to be clear, not only did I serve for 18 years
on the Defense Committee, more than anybody on this stage, but, secondly, I was
called into the Pentagon after 9/11 to help Secretary Rumsfeld with some of his
difficulties.

I will say, look, let me tell you what happened with Libya. And I pointed out in
the last debate -- Hillary Clinton worked aggressively to depose Moammar
Gadhafi. We had no business doing it. He was working with us. He was cooperating
with us. He denuclearized. And now they pushed him out, and now we have a
fertile ground for ISIS.

Fortunately in Libya, there's only a few cities on the coast, because most of
Libya is a desert. The fact of the matter is, we absolutely have to be -- and
not just with special forces. I mean, that's not going to work. Come on. You've
got to go back to the invasion when we pushed Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait. We
have to be there on the ground in significant numbers. We do have to include our
Muslim Arab friends to work with us on that. And we have to be in the air.

And we -- it should be a broad coalition, made up of the kinds of people that
were involved when we defeated Saddam. Now, you've got to be on the ground and
in the air both in Syria and Iraq. And at some point, we will have to deal with
Libya. I am very concerned about ISIS getting their hands on the oilfields in
Libya and being able to fund their operations. The fact is cool, calm,
deliberate, effective, take care of the job, and then come home. That's what we
need to do with our military foreign policy.(APPLAUSE)

BAIER: Mr. Trump, just yesterday, almost 100 foreign policy experts signed on to
an open letter refusing to support you, saying your embracing expansive use of
torture is inexcusable. General Michael Hayden, former CIA director, NSA
director, and other experts have said that when you asked the U.S. military to
carry out some of your campaign promises, specifically targeting terrorists'
families, and also the use of interrogation methods more extreme than
waterboarding, the military will refuse because they've been trained to turn
down and refuse illegal orders.

So what would you do, as commander-in-chief, if the U.S. military refused to
carry out those orders?

TRUMP: They won't refuse. They're not going to refuse me. Believe me.

BAIER: But they're illegal.

TRUMP: Let me just tell you, you look at the Middle East. They're chopping off
heads. They're chopping off the heads of Christians and anybody else that
happens to be in the way. They're drowning people in steel cages. And he -- now
we're talking about waterboarding.

This really started with Ted, a question was asked of Ted last -- two debates
ago about waterboarding. And Ted was, you know, having a hard time with that
question, to be totally honest with you. They then came to me, what do you think
of waterboarding? I said it's fine. And if we want to go stronger, I'd go
stronger, too, because, frankly...

(APPLAUSE)

... that's the way I feel. Can you imagine -- can you imagine these people,
these animals over in the Middle East, that chop off heads, sitting around
talking and seeing that we're having a hard problem with waterboarding? We
should go for waterboarding and we should go tougher than waterboarding. That's
my opinion.

BAIER: But targeting terrorists' families?

(APPLAUSE)

TRUMP: And -- and -- and -- I'm a leader. I'm a leader. I've always been a
leader. I've never had any problem leading people. If I say do it, they're going
to do it. That's what leadership is all about.

BAIER: Even targeting terrorists' families?

TRUMP: Well, look, you know, when a family flies into the World Trade Center, a
man flies into the World Trade Center, and his family gets sent back to where
they were going -- and I think most of you know where they went -- and, by the
way, it wasn't Iraq -- but they went back to a certain territory, they knew what
was happening. The wife knew exactly what was happening.

They left two days early, with respect to the World Trade Center, and they went
back to where they went, and they watched their husband on television flying
into the World Trade Center, flying into the Pentagon, and probably trying to
fly into the White House, except we had some very, very brave souls on that
third plane. All right?

(APPLAUSE)

BAIER: Senator Cruz, you were mentioned.

TRUMP: I have no problem with it.

BAIER: Senator Cruz?

CRUZ: Bret, you know, I think the American people understand that yelling and
cursing at people doesn't make you a tough guy. We need a commander-in-chief
that, number one, will rebuild the military, just like Ronald Reagan did in 1981
coming out of the weak Jimmy Carter administration. He passed tax reform and
regulatory reform. The economy took off. It generated millions in high-paying
jobs, trillions in new revenue. He rebuilt the military, bankrupted the Soviet
Union, and won the Cold War.

As president, I will do the exact same thing with radical Islamic terrorism. We
will rebuild this military so that it remains the mightiest fighting force on
the face of the planet. And then, when I am commander-in-chief, every militant
on the face of the Earth will understand that if they go and join ISIS, if they
wage jihad against the United States of America, they are signing their death
warrant.

(APPLAUSE)

BAIER: But, Senator Cruz, in 2013, you said you were open -- you were open to
the possibility that Edward Snowden had performed a considerable public service,
you said back then, in revealing certain aspects of the NSA procedures. Many of
your colleagues in the Senate, including Senator Rubio, called him a traitor. It
took you until January of this year to call him a traitor and say he should be
tried for treason. Why the change of heart? And why did it take you so long?

CRUZ: Well, Bret, as someone who spent much of his life in law enforcement, I
believe you should start with the facts and evidence first before ending up with
the verdict. When the news first broke of the United States government engaging
in massive surveillance on American citizens, that was a very troubling
development, and it's why the United States Congress acted to correct it.

Now, at the same time, I said in that initial statement that if the evidence
indicated that Edward Snowden violated the law, he should be prosecuted for
violating the law. And, indeed, since then, the evidence is clear that not only
does Snowden violate the law, but it appears he committed treason. Treason is
defined under the Constitution as giving aid and comfort to the enemies of
America, and what Snowden did made it easier for terrorists to avoid detection.

And Snowden's comments afterwards, and his behavior afterwards, he fled to
Russia, he fled to China. His conducts afterwards indicates that he was not a
whistleblower, but instead he was undermining the ability to defend this
country. But we need a president who isn't rash, who doesn't just pop off at the
-- at the hip, but waits to see what the facts are and then acts to defend this
country.(APPLAUSE)

BAIER: Mr. Trump, you've repeatedly deflected calls for specific national
security or defense policy plans with the claim that you'll ask the best people
when you become president, and take their advice.

So who are the best people? Can you reveal two or three names that you trust for
national security?

TRUMP: I think Richard Haass is excellent. I have a lot of respect for him. I
think General Keane is excellent. I think that there are -- I like Colonel
Jacobs very much. I see him. I know him. I have many people that I think are
really excellent but in the end it's going to be my decision.

When you just asked the question about Snowden, I will tell you right from the
beginning, I said he was a spy and we should get him back. And if Russia
respected our country, they would have sent him back immediately, but he was a
spy. It didn't take me a long time to figure that one out. Believe me.

But I would get the best people, people that I'd be comfortable with. And we
will do the right thing.

KASICH: Bret, it's very interesting to note, I think it's for the good of the
record here that they took a survey of foreign policy magazines, 700 foreign
policy experts, who would be the best person to conduct foreign policy of all
the candidates in the race?

I received 55 percent of the vote. Jeb Bush received 30 percent of the vote. And
everybody else, none of them made double digits. And that's because you have to
have the experience.

And you know, we hear about Ronald Reagan rebuilding the military. I was there
when Ronald Reagan rebuilt the military. I worked with him. I was there when
Ronald Reagan rebuilt the economy. I was there, and I worked with him. I knew
Ronald Reagan.

And I'll leave it right there with what comes after that. You can figure that
one out.

BAIER: Governor Kasich, thank you.

KELLY: We're going to have more questions for the candidates right after this
break. And during the commercial break, join us for a -- Facebook live on the
FOX News Facebook page and tell us what you think about tonight's debate in the
comment section. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BAIER: Welcome back to the historic Fox Theater in downtown Detroit and the
Republican presidential debate. Let's get right back to the questions.

KELLY: Mr. Trump, one of the things people love about you is they believe you
tell it like it is. But time and time again in this campaign, you have actually
told the voters one thing only to reverse yourself within weeks or even
sometimes days. We've teed up just three examples in a videotape, similar to
those we used with Senator Rubio and Senator Cruz in the last debate. The first
is on whether the war in Afghanistan was a mistake. Watch.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CUOMO: What about in Afghanistan? Do you believe that American boots should stay
on the ground in Afghanistan to stabilize the situation?

TRUMP: We've made a terrible mistake getting involved there in the first place.
That thing will collapse about two seconds after they leave. Just as I said that
Iraq was going to collapse after we leave.

(UNKNOWN): About Afghanistan, you said we made a terrible mistake getting
involved there in the first place.

TRUMP: We made a mistake going into Iraq. I've never said we made a mistake...

(UNKNOWN): Our question was about Afghanistan. That day on October...

TRUMP: Well, OK, I never said that.

(UNKNOWN): ... was on Afghanistan.

TRUMP: OK. Wouldn't matter. I never said it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Next, on whether we should accept...

TRUMP: Should I respond to that first?

KELLY: Two more, and then you'll have the floor. Next on whether we should
accept the Syrian refugees...

TRUMP: You'll be here a long time.

KELLY: On whether we should accept the Syrian refugees.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: Do you object to migrants who are getting out of the Middle East and
North Africa? Do you object to them coming to the USA?

TRUMP: I hate the concept of it, but on a humanitarian basis, with what's
happening, you have to. It's living in Hell in Syria; there's no question about
it. They're living in Hell.

HANNITY: Are you saying absolutely people from Syria, the Middle East, should we
allow any of them into this country?

TRUMP: Look, from a humanitarian standpoint, I'd love to help, but we have our
own problems. We have so many problems that we have to solve.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Most recently, on whether President George W. Bush lied to get us into
the Iraq war.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: They lied. They said there were weapons of mass destruction; there were
none. And they knew there were none.

I don't know if he lied or not. He could have lied. Maybe he did. Maybe he
didn't. I guess you'd have to ask him.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: And there are many other examples. So how is any of this ''telling it
like it is''?

TRUMP: Well, on Afghanistan, I did mean Iraq. I think you have to stay in
Afghanistan for a while, because of the fact that you're right next to Pakistan,
which has nuclear weapons, and we have to protect that. Nuclear weapons change
the game.

And I was always against going into Iraq. In fact, I -- believe me, I was always
against it. There was some cases where I sort of -- in one interview with a
great friend of mine, and yours, Howard Stern -- said that -- said that...

(LAUGHTER)

I said very meekly, long before we went in, I said very meekly, well, maybe,
maybe, I don't know. By the time it got to that point, I was always against
Iraq. But Afghanistan, I felt -- and in that one, if you notice, I corrected it
the second day. OK? Second question? KELLY: There are several examples, Mr.
Trump.

TRUMP: No, no. But...

KELLY: We went through the Afghanistan being a mistake. Within one day, you
reversed yourself on Syrian refugees.

TRUMP: Now on -- let me explain that. You're right. Let me explain. First time
the question had been put to me, it was very early on. The migration had just
started. And I had heard that the number was a very, very small number.

By the second day, two or three days later, I heard the number was going to be
thousands and thousands of people. You know, when they originally heard about
it, they were talking about bringing very, very small numbers in.

And I said, begrudgingly, well, I guess maybe that's OK. It was not like,
''Let's bring them in,'' because I think we should build a safe zone in -- we
should really -- what we should be doing is building safe zones so they can stay
in their own country and not go all over, and at least this way we're not going
to have the problem. That's what we have to do.

(APPLAUSE)

But just -- just to set -- because I fully understand what you're asking. When I
first heard the question, first time the question was ever asked to me, first
time I really had known about the question, the migration had just started. I
was very much like, OK, by the time I went back and studied it, and they were
talking about bringing thousands and thousands, I changed my tune. And I don't
think there's anything wrong with that.

KELLY: But the point I'm going for is you change your tune on so many things,
and that has some people saying, what is his core?

TRUMP: Megyn, I have a very strong core.

(APPLAUSE)

I have a very strong core. But I've never seen a successful person who wasn't
flexible, who didn't have a certain degree of flexibility. You have to have a
certain degree of flexibility.

(APPLAUSE)

You can't -- for instance, let's say, on -- on the second question, you can't
say it's OK, and then you find out it's not OK, and you don't want to do
anything. You have to be flexible, because you learn. I mean, before I knew the
question was asked by Bill, and the next day, or the couple of days later, the
question was asked by, by -- you know -- I was asked by a number of people,
actually. I was asked by Sean, but I was asked by a number of people. But by
that time, the number had increased significantly.

KELLY: Sean was the next day after Bill.

TRUMP: The next day. But I had learned. I mean, nobody had ever asked me the
question. This was brand new. But -- and I really mean it. You have to show a
degree of flexibility. If you're going to be one way and you think it's wrong,
does that mean the rest of your life you have to go in the wrong direction
because you don't want to change? (APPLAUSE)

KASICH: Megyn.

TRUMP: (INAUDIBLE)

KELLY: Go ahead, Governor.

KASICH: I did 200 meetings in New Hampshire, I don't know how many in Michigan
now. In these townhalls people come in and they're very emotional meetings. And,
you know what they really want to know? If somebody tells them something, can
they believe it?

And, the reason why people are so upset in this country is because politicians
all the time tell them what they want to hear. And, they go to Washington, or
they go to the state capital, wherever, and they don't deliver on those
promises.

You know, when I ran for Governor of Ohio, I said not only would we balance the
budget, but we would cut taxes. People said that can't be done. I wouldn't have
said it if I didn't believe it.

We cut taxes in Ohio more than any governor in the country, and $5 billion
dollars worth of tax cuts -- we're not running a surplus in Ohio. But, you see,
what's getting in the hearts and souls of the people is they want change, and
they keep putting outsiders in to bring about the change, then the change
doesn't come. Then they put more outsiders in because we're putting people in
that don't understand compromise. They don't understand policy...

(BELL RINGING)

(APPLAUSE)

KASICH: ... They're getting more and more frustrated with the system which is
why we must pick somebody that has a record of achievement, not just talk.

KELLY: OK.

KASICH: Not just talk, but a record of achievement. That's how we'll restore
credibility..

RUBIO: ... This isn't just about flexibility.

KELLY: Go ahead, Senator. RUBIO: There's a difference between flexibility and
telling people whatever you think you need to say to get them to do what you
want them to do.

(CHEERING)

RUBIO: And, that's what Donald has done throughout his career.

TRUMP: (INAUDIBLE)

RUBIO: Well, he did, and that's why Trump University...

TRUMP: ... That's not right...

RUBIO: ... Is so relevant here. I saw this video last week where he's sitting in
front of a camera saying we're going to hire the best people, and I'm going to
hand pick them. There are going to be hand picked and instructors, the best
instructors in the world. One of them, but the way, was the manager at a Buffalo
Wild Wing. And, that's who they hired to do this, and people borrowed money, and
they signed up for this fake university.

And, these people owe all this money now, and they got nothing in return for it,
but you are willing to say whatever you had to say...

(BELL RINGING)

RUBIO: ... To get them to give you their money...

KELLY: ... Go ahead, Mr. Trump...

TRUMP: ... We'll find out when we have the (INAUDIBLE)...

RUBIO: ... And, we're not going to do that to our country...

TRUMP: ... And, by the way, just so you understand...

(APPLAUSE)

TRUMP: ... This is a case I could have settled very easily, but I don't settle
cases very easily when I'm right. Ninety-eight percent approval rating, we have
an ''A'' from the Better Business Bureau...

RUBIO: ... That's false...

TRUMP: ... We have a 98 percent approval rating from the people who took the
course. We have an ''A'' from the Better Business Bureau. And, people like it.
Now, he's saying they didn't learn.

We have many, many people that will be witnesses. Again, I don't settle cases. I
don't do it because that's why I don't get sued very often, because I don't
settle, unlike a lot of other people.

We have a situation where we will win in court...

(BELL RINGING) TRUMP: But, many of the people that are witnesses did
tremendously well, and made a lot of money...

RUBIO: ... That's false...

TRUMP: ... By taking the course.

KELLY: Go ahead, Senator.

TRUMP: You're going to see, you don't know...

RUBIO: ... The Better Business Bureau gave it a ''D'' minus.

TRUMP: You're going to see, you're going to see.

KELLY: ... It's Senator Rubio's turn...

TRUMP: ... No, no. Before they had the information...

RUBIO: ... Go on my website, Marco Rubio.com...

TRUMP: ... Before they had the information...

KELLY: ... Senator Rubio, standby, let him finish his point, and then I'll give
you the floor...

TRUMP: ... Before they had the information it got -- it is right now an ''A'',
once they had the information...

RUBIO: ... (INAUDIBLE) this anymore.

TRUMP: ... The only reason that is was a ''D'' was because we didn't care -- we
didn't give them the information...

RUBIO: ... A third of the people (INAUDIBLE)...

TRUMP: ... When they got the information it became an ''A''...

KELLY: ... With respect -- wait. With respect...

TRUMP: ... Marco you don't know (INAUDIBLE)...

KELLY: ... With respect, we went back and looked at this...

TRUMP: ... Yes.

KELLY: The rating from the Better Business Bureau was a ''D'' minus...

(CHEERING) (APPLAUSE) TRUMP: ... (INAUDIBLE)

KELLY: ... that's the last publicly available rating in 2010, and it was the
result of a number of complaints they had...

TRUMP: ... But it was elevated to an ''A''...

UNIDENTIFIABLE MALE: (INAUDIBLE)

KELLY: ... That's never been publicly available.

TRUMP: ... I can give it to you. I can give it to you tomorrow..

KELLY: ... Let's just bring the viewers up to speed, let's just bring the
viewers up to speed.

TRUMP: ... It was elevated to an ''A''.

KELLY: Let me just set the record, and then you guys can have at it. There was
Trump University, which was a business that you started, and it was marketed...

TRUMP: ... Small business...

KELLY: ... to many people, and now there is a class-action of over 5,000
plaintiffs against you, Mr. Trump...

TRUMP: ... Right...

KELLY: ... And, it involves veterans, and it involves teachers, and it involves
so-called little guys, working class, and lower- working class and middle class
who say that they were fleeced, who say that it was as scam. The class has been
certified, and in that case you counter-sued the lead plaintiff alleging that
you were being defamed.

That case was thrown out against her...

TRUMP: ... The lead plaintiff is now getting out of the case because it's so bad
for her...

KELLY: ... But, what happened was...

TRUMP: ... Excuse me, the lead plaintiff signed a letter saying how great it
was, and it on tape saying how great it was.

KELLY: OK, no, but -- standby. But, what happened in that case was you
counter-sued her. The court threw out your counter-suit, and made you pay almost
$800,000 dollars in legal fees of hers, and you made the same argument about 98
percent of the people being happy with Trump University. And, that woman in
particular signing a survey saying she liked it while someone was standing over
her shoulder...

TRUMP: ... She's trying to get out of the case. She's trying to get out of the
case...

KELLY: ... And this is what -- standby, this is what the Court of Appeals found.
They said that the plaintiffs against you are like the Madoff victims...

TRUMP: Oh, give me a break... KELLy: ... This is what the Court of Appeals said.

TRUMP: Give me a break.KELLY: This is what the court of appeals said.

TRUMP: Give me a break.

KELLY: They found that victims of con artists often sing the praises of their
victimizers until they realize they have been fleeced.

TRUMP: You know what, let's see what happens in court. This is a civil case.
Very easy to have settled. Could settle it now. Very easy to have settled. Let's
see what happens at the end of a couple years when this case is over, OK?

KELLY: It has been going for five years.

TRUMP: Yes, it has been going for a long time.

KELLY: Go ahead, Senator.

RUBIO: I spoke to one of the victims yesterday.

TRUMP: We'll win the case.

RUBIO: I spoke to one of the victims yesterday.

TRUMP: One, one of the victims.

RUBIO: No, there are several. Obviously there are so many, I can't talk to them
every day. I spoke to one of them, he told me exactly what happened. They signed
up for this course because they believed Mr. Trump was this fantastic
businessman, that Donald is going to teach them the tricks of the trade.

They signed up. They paid $15,000 for this course. They were asked for
additional money for this course. If they really wanted the real secrets of
success, they had to pay even more money, and so they did.

And you know what they got in these courses? Stuff you can pull off of Zillow.
When they finally realized what a scam it was, they asked for their money back.

And you refused to give them their money back. Why don't you tonight...

TRUMP: I gave many people their money back. RUBIO: Then why don't you tonight
say you're going to give the money back to everybody who wants...

TRUMP: Let me just...

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: OK. Senator Rubio, let him answer.

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: Let him answer.

Go ahead, Mr. Trump.

TRUMP: We will see who's right at the end of a few years. But all of the --
almost all of the people, many, many people signed what's called the report card
at the end, did you like the course, how did you like it.

Almost all of them said it was terrific, OK? With letters, with this. Some of
them are on tape saying it was terrific. Let's see what happens at the end of
three years.

KELLY: With respect, Mr. Trump, one-third of the plaintiffs in that case
demanded refunds. So it's not the case that 98 percent were...

TRUMP: I gave some refunds to people because if they asked for the refunds in a
certain period of time, and we gave refunds to people.

KELLY: OK.

TRUMP: But let's see what happens at the end of three years. Let's see who's
right.

KELLY: Still a pending litigation.

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: It's called pending litigation.

RUBIO: Megyn, this is why this is relevant to this election.

KELLY: All right. Senator Rubio then Senator Cruz. Go ahead.

RUBIO: This is why, because he's trying to do to the American voter what he did
to the people that signed up for this course. He's making promises he has no
intention of keeping. And it won't just be $36,000 that they lose, it's our
country that's at stake here.

The future of the United States and the most important election in a generation,
and he's trying to con people into giving them their vote just like he conned
these people into giving him their money. TRUMP: Let me tell you the real con
artist. Excuse me. Excuse me. The real con artist is Senator Marco Rubio who was
elected in Florida and who has the worst voting record in the United States
Senate.

He doesn't go to vote. He's absent. He doesn't go. Now, the people of Florida
can't stand him. He couldn't get elected dogcatcher. The people of Florida --
the people of Florida -- and by the way, I know he's going to spend $25 million
on ads. Without that he wouldn't have a chance. He's 20 points south.

The people in Florida wouldn't elect him dogcatcher. He couldn't get any -- he's
right now 21 points down to me. And, you know...

KELLY: OK.

TRUMP: ... again, there will be a lot of advertising. It's the only thing that
might save him. But I doubt it.

RUBIO: Notice that's not an answer.

KELLY: I'm coming to you next. But go ahead.

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: He scammed the people of Florida. He scammed people. He doesn't vote. He
doesn't show up for the U.S. Senate. He doesn't vote. He scammed the people. He
defrauded the people of Florida.

KELLY: With respect, you've made that point.

Go ahead.

RUBIO: There's no -- as you can see in his answer, it's always the same thing.

TRUMP: You defrauded the people of Florida, little Marco.

RUBIO: He has defrauding people out of things, and not just -- and not just, by
the way, on the issue of Trump University. He had another development in Mexico
that he had nothing to do with except his name on the building. People put money
into that building.

TRUMP: That was licensing.

RUBIO: They lost their money. Yes, licensing, but you told them you owned the
building. So they gave him his money. They lost their money. Time and again...

KELLY: All right. Stand by. I will come back to you. Senator Cruz wants to weigh
in. You're coming back.

Go ahead.

CRUZ: Megyn, let me ask the voters at home, is this the debate you want playing
out in the general election? The stakes in this election are too high. For seven
years, millions of Americans, we've been struggling, wages have been stagnating,
people are hurting, our constitutional rights are under assault.

And if we nominate Donald, we're going to spend the spring, the fall, and the
summer with the Republican nominee facing a fraud trial...

TRUMP: Oh, stop it.

CRUZ: ... with Hillary Clinton saying...

TRUMP: It's just a minor case. It's a minor case.

CRUZ: ... why did you give my campaign and my foundation $100,000?

TRUMP: It's a minor civil case.

CRUZ: And with Hillary Clinton...

TRUMP: Give me a break.

CRUZ: ... pointing out that he supported her four times in her presidential
race.

TRUMP: It's a minor civil case.

CRUZ: Donald, learn not to interrupt. It's not complicated.

TRUMP: There are many, many civil cases.

CRUZ: Count to 10, Donald. Count to 10.

TRUMP: Give me a break.

CRUZ: Count to 10. The stakes are too high and if you are one of the 65 to 70
percent of Republicans who recognize that nominating Donald would be a disaster,
then I ask you to come join us. If you're supporting other candidates, come join
us.

We welcome you to our team because we've demonstrated not once, not twice, not
three times, but five separate times we have beat Donald. And if you don't want
him to be the nominee, then I ask you to stand with us as a broad coalition of
people who believe in the Constitution, believe in freedom, and want to turn
this country around.

KELLY: Go ahead, Mr. Trump.TRUMP: I don't believe these politicians. All talk,
no action. I'm standing here listening to -- I'm hearing him say about a
percentage. CNN, he gets 15. That means 85 percent, based on what you're saying,
of the people don't dig you, number one, number one. Is that a correct
statement? How do you get -- are you at 15 in the new CNN poll? Do you believe
in CNN? I mean, I know we're with FOX. But CNN spent -- CNN...

CRUZ: All right, I'll respond...

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: CNN spent a lot of money on a poll, just came out. I'm at 49. He's at 15.
He tells me about 65 percent of the people. It's not 65 percent of the people.
If you go by that, 85 percent of the people.

Then he goes, we have five. And -- well, excuse me, I won 10. I won 10 states.
If you listen to him, it's like -- I won 10 states. Everybody knows that on
Super Tuesday Trump was the winner. There wasn't one person that didn't say
that. Even the two people on your left and right said we did a great job. So how
does he take -- how does he take five and say it's better than 10?

KELLY: Go ahead, Senator.

TRUMP: I am by far the leader. But if you listen to a politician, he'll try and
convince you otherwise.

KELLY: Senator Cruz, go.

CRUZ: All right, well, Donald lives by the polls every day. He tweets about the
polls.

TRUMP: No, I don't. No, I don't.

CRUZ: He's told us to look to the CNN poll. Well, that's a very good poll to
look to, because that CNN poll showed that head to head Donald Trump loses to
Hillary Clinton by 8 points. He doesn't just lose close; he loses by 8 points.
That same poll he told you to look at shows me beating Hillary Clinton.

(APPLAUSE)

We cannot mess this up. And, by the way, the last four polls in a row, when you
nominate a candidate who literally has been on every side of every issue, and in
the course of this debate may be on two other sides before we're done, that's
not how you win. And the stakes are too high. (CROSSTALK)

KELLY: All right. I'm going to let Mr. Trump -- I'm going to let -- let me
just...

TRUMP: According to your poll...

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: I'm going to let you respond to that, Mr. Trump. I'm going to then go to
you, Governor. You're up next.

TRUMP: ... I know, but your recent polls have me beating Hillary Clinton, and
very, very easily.

KELLY: OK. Do you want to weigh in?

KASICH: All right, look, honestly, when I see people at these meetings, these
town halls, where we take massive questions, and I get to spend time with them.
Last night, there was a woman that came to tell me about the loss of her
15-year-old son, who took his own life.

See, there's people in this country -- and Ted's right -- their wages haven't
gone up for so long, they see the rich get richer, they believe, and they're not
moving. And they put their money in the bank, and they got no interest on their
money. They receive none. And their sons or daughters are living in the basement
because they can't get a good job after they rang up so much college debt.

What people are hungry for is, who can fix this? People want to know who -- what
can you do to solve the problems in Washington, to make sure that we have
stronger job growth and better wages? But you know what else they're yearning
for? They want to believe that they have the power to fix things where they
live, and they want the power back, so they can begin to do things in their
community.

Now, listen, this has been going on for a long time here. And I appreciate the
discussion back and forth. But there are a lot of people out there yearning for
somebody who's going to bring America back, both at the leadership level and in
the neighborhood, where we can begin to reignite the spirit of the United States
of America. And let's stop fighting.

(APPLAUSE)

KELLY: Governor, thank you. Gentlemen, thank you.

WALLACE: Much more to come live from the Fox Theater, including where the
candidates stand on the social issues facing the country. The Republican
presidential debate continues in a moment.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

KELLY: Welcome back, everybody, to the Fox News Republican presidential debate.
We want to get right back to the questions.

(APPLAUSE)

BAIER: We are here in Detroit. The top issues in Michigan, according to
Facebook, are displayed in a word cloud you're taking a look at. The second
biggest issue is clean water. That, of course, is directly tied with the
situation in Flint.

Senator Rubio, Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton have both been to Flint. They
are both running ads in this state focusing on that, focusing on supporting
Flint and fixing the problems, showing images of people in Flint thankful that
they're there.

Without getting into the political blame game here, where are the national
Republicans' plans on infrastructure and solving problems like this? If you talk
to people in this state, they are really concerned about Flint on both sides of
the aisle. So why haven't GOP candidates done more or talked more about this?

RUBIO: Well, I know I've talked about it, and others in our campaign have talked
about it, and other candidates have talked about it, as well. What happened in
Flint was a terrible thing. It was systemic breakdown at every level of
government, at both the federal and partially the -- both the state and
partially at the federal level, as well.

And by the way, the politicizing of it I think is unfair, because I don't think
that someone woke up one morning and said, ''Let's figure out how to poison the
water system to hurt someone.''

(APPLAUSE)

But accountability is important. I will say, I give the governor credit. He took
responsibility for what happened. And he's talked about people being held
accountable...

(APPLAUSE)

... and the need for change, with Governor Snyder. But here's the point. This
should not be a partisan issue. The way the Democrats have tried to turn this
into a partisan issue, that somehow Republicans woke up in the morning and
decided, ''Oh, it's a good idea to poison some kids with lead.'' It's absurd.
It's outrageous. It isn't true.

(APPLAUSE)

All of us are outraged by what happened. And we should work together to solve
it. And there is a proper role for the government to play at the federal level,
in helping local communities to respond to a catastrophe of this kind, not just
to deal with the people that have been impacted by it, but to ensure that
something like this never happens again.

BAIER: Thank you, Senator.

(APPLAUSE)

KELLY: Governor Kasich, the city of Detroit has long suffered with urban blight,
broken street lights, dilapidated and vacant houses, and so on. In 2013, Detroit
actually declared bankruptcy, which helped, but the schools here remain a big
problem. They're $3.5 billion in debt and are some of the most troubled and
poorly testing in the country. The kids too often go to classrooms that are
unsafe, falling apart, infested with rodents and insects. Experts say the
schools could go bankrupt by next month.

Question to you. If the federal government bailed out the auto industry here in
Detroit, should it also bail out the Detroit schools?

KASICH: Well, look, first of all, I think the mayor now is controlling the
schools. This is not much different than what happened in Cleveland, Ohio, where
the African-American Democrat mayor, the union, and business leaders came to see
me and said, ''Would you help us to pass legislation to really create a CEO
environment so that we can take control of the schools?''

We even invested in a buyout plan, where we bought out the teachers who had been
there a long time, because there were so many young teachers who had been laid
off who were so enthusiastic to get back in the schools. It worked beautifully.
Cleveland's coming back. The Cleveland schools are coming back because of a
major overhaul.

It's the same thing that has to happen in all of our urban schools. And,
frankly, look, if I were president, I'd take 104 federal programs, bundle them
into four buckets, and send it to the states, because fixing schools rests at
the state and the local level, and particularly at the school board level.
(APPLAUSE)

KASICH: Now, I also believe -- I also believe that you need to introduce
vocational education in those schools. You need mentoring in those schools. And
you need to have a situation where people can have an alternative forum to get a
degree. And you need school choice, both vouchers and charter schools. All of
those things can come together to help, Megyn.

But here's the bottom line. And I'll go quickly. We as adults have to fight in
our neighborhoods, in our communities, for our children's education. Put the
politics aside, and everyone in this room can play a role in lifting their
schools and lifting the students who are in those schools, because too much
politics gets in the middle of it, and where we focus as adults, and put
children first, we see tremendous results. And the people of this town are going
to rise. And they need to be involved. Thank you.

(APPLAUSE)

WALLACE: For -- for half a century, as you all know, Detroit was the symbol of
America's industrial might: 300,000 manufacturing jobs in this city. At last
count, there are now fewer than 30,000 manufacturing jobs here, and the
unemployment rate in this city is 11 percent, twice the national average.

Senator Cruz, I know that you have general plans for tax reform, but what
specifically would you do to bring manufacturing jobs back to America and train
residents of cities like Detroit to do those jobs?

CRUZ: Well, Chris, thank you for that question. Let me start by observing that
Detroit is a great city with a magnificent legacy that has been utterly
decimated by 60 years of failed left-wing policy.

(APPLAUSE)

You know, Henry Ford revolutionized automobile manufacturing and brought
automobiles to the middle class. During World War II, Detroit provided -- funded
the arsenals of democracy to help us win World War II. In -- in the 1960s,
Detroit was the Silicon Valley of America. It had a population of 2 million
people, had the highest per capita income in the country.

And then, for 50 years, left-wing Democrats have pursued destructive tax
policies, weak crime policies, and have driven the citizens out. (APPLAUSE)

This city now has just 700,000 citizens. There are vacant homes, one after the
other after the other. Crime has been rampant, and it is an outrage. And let me
say to folks in the media: That is a story that the media ought to be telling
over and over again, the destruction of left-wing policies and the millions who
have hurt because of it.

(APPLAUSE)

WALLACE: Well, I was going to say, I'll give you 30 seconds to try to answer my
question. What specifically would you do to bring manufacturing jobs back to
Detroit and to train the residents here to do those jobs?

CRUZ: The way you bring manufacturing back to America is, number one, you lift
the regulations. As president, I will repeal Obamacare, the biggest job-killer
in America.

I will pull back the federal regulators, the EPA and all the regulators that are
killing small businesses and manufacturing.

And my tax plan, which is a very, very detailed plan on the website,
tedcruz.org, is what's called border adjustable. We get rid of all the taxes. We
get rid of the corporate income tax and the death tax and the Obamacare taxes
and the payroll tax. And we replace it with a 16 percent business flat tax that
is border adjustable, which means all exports are entirely tax-free and all
imports pay the 16 percent business flat tax. That's a 32 percent differential.

What that will do, Chris, is bring millions of manufacturing jobs back to this
country, bring the steel industry back to this country, create an environment
where when we compete on a fair and level playing field, American ingenuity can
beat anyone. But right now, the federal government isn't giving us a level
playing field.

WALLACE: Thank you, Senator.

(APPLAUSE)

BAIER: Gentlemen, the next series of questions will be on social issues.
Governor Kasich, the last debate, you were asked a question about religious
liberty, in a hypothetical situation where a same-sex couple approaches a
cupcake maker to do their wedding. Here's what you said.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

KASICH: If you're in the business of selling things, if you're not going to sell
to somebody you don't agree with, today I'm not going to sell to somebody who's
gay, then tomorrow maybe I won't sell to somebody who's divorced.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BAIER: Governor, some faith leaders got nervous about that answer. Do gay
marriage dissenters have rights?

KASICH: Well, look, first of all, I try to be a man of faith every day as best
as I can, and I try to focus in my faith on the dos and I think the don'ts will
take care of themselves once I get the dos right, which is humility, and loving
my enemy, and caring for my neighbor.

But secondly, look, you're in the commerce business, you want to sell somebody a
cupcake, great. OK? But now if they ask you to participate in something you
really don't like, that's a whole 'nother issue, OK? Another issue.

Here's what I'd like to see happen. The Supreme Court ruled, I don't agree with
the ruling. I'm of favor of marriage between -- you know, traditional marriage,
a man and a woman. What I hope was going to happen after the Supreme Court
ruling is things would settle down.

If you go to a photographer to take pictures at your wedding, and he says, I'd
rather not do it, find another photographer, don't sue them in court. You know
what, the problem is in our country -- in our country, we need to learn to
respect each other and be a little bit more tolerant for one another.

And at the end of the day, don't go to court. Can't we have common sense in
America? That's the way it used to be. And there was a book written called ''The
Death of Common Sense.'' We need to bring it back.

But at the end of the day, if somebody is being pressured to participate in
something that is against their deeply-held religious beliefs, then we're going
to have to think about dealing with the law.

But you know what, I'd rather people figure this out without having to put
another law on the books and have more arguments in this country. Why don't we
come together as a country, respect one another, love one another and lift this
country? I think that's what people want.

So thanks for asking.

BAIER: Senator Cruz, the U.S. Supreme Court obviously declared same-sex marriage
legal in all 50 states, a decision you have criticized. Given the current status
of the law, do you believe a gay couple should be able to adopt?

CRUZ: Well, listen, adoption is decided at the state level and I am a believer
in the 10th Amendment in the Constitution, I would leave the question of
marriage to the states, I would leave the question of adoption to the states.

That's the way it has been for two centuries of our nation's history until five
unelected judges in an illegitimate and wrong decision decided to seize the
authority over marriage and wrongfully tear down the marriage laws of all 50
states.

Now, interconnected to this is the question of religious liberty. And at the
last debate, one of my colleagues on this stage said on the question of
religious liberty and Supreme Court nominees that he'd be willing to compromise
and negotiate.

I can tell you, for me, there are areas that we should compromise on. Marginal
tax rates, we can reach a middle ground on. But when it comes to core principles
and convictions, when it comes to the Constitution and Bill of Rights, I can
tell the men and women at home I will never compromise away your religious
liberty.

And for me, Bret, religious liberty has been a lifelong passion. I've spent two
decades defending religious liberty, including defending the Ten Commandments
before the U.S. Supreme Court and winning. Defending the Pledge of Allegiance
before the Supreme Court and winning.

And defending the Mojave Desert Veterans Memorial, a lone white Latin cross that
was erected to honor the men and women who gave their lives in World War I. I
represented 3 million veterans for free defending that memorial and we won 5-4
before the Supreme Court.

BAIER: Senator, thank you.

Senator Cruz definitely avoided saying your name, Mr. Trump, but I think he was
referring to you and your religious liberty answer. Would you like to respond?

TRUMP: I have nothing to say. I mean, generally speaking, agree with what he
said. I would have certainly have rather left it to the states. I was always in
favor -- I was very surprised when they came up with that decision.

I would have certainly -- I would have preferred had it been left to the states
and I think most people would have preferred that.

BAIER: Senator Rubio, the late Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, a
conservative icon, obviously, pointed out, in the United States versus Heller,
that like most rights, the Second Amendment right is not unlimited.

Just like the First Amendment doesn't allow you to go into a theater and yell
fire, he said the Second Amendment leaves room to regulate guns. So do you agree
with Justice Scalia? And if so, what limits would you draw around the Second
Amendment?

RUBIO: As few as possible. The Second Amendment, as I've said before, is not a
suggestion. It is the constitutional right of every American to protect
themselves and their families. It is a right that -- it is the Second Amendment
for a reason.

It is right after the defense of the freedom of speech for a reason, for clearly
the founders of our nation understood and the framers of the Constitution
understood that you cannot have life and you cannot have liberty and cannot
pursue happiness if you are not safe.RUBIO: And the Second Amendment -- when
people talk about gun laws, what they need to realize is, criminals don't follow
gun laws. They're criminals. By definition, they ignore the law.

(APPLAUSE)

But the gun rights of Americans, if you are talking to a law- abiding citizen
and a gun-owner like myself, if you pass a law, I will follow whatever the law
is. A criminal will not do it. They will continue to pursue these guns on the
black market, where they then go out and commit crimes and they steal guns from
each other.

Gun laws are not effective. They simply do not provide for safety. But they do,
however, ensure that law-abiding people don't have access to weapons to protect
themselves and guns to protect themselves, but criminals always will be well
armed. They don't care about the law; they don't follow the law. We will protect
the Second Amendment when I'm president of the United States.

(APPLAUSE)

BAIER: Mr. Trump, you were once a supporter of an assault weapons ban. So do you
think there should be any restrictions on the Second Amendment?

TRUMP: No, I'm a big defender of the Second Amendment. And if you look at what's
happened, whether it's in California, where you had the 14 people killed,
whether it's in Paris -- which, by the way, has the toughest gun laws in the
world and 130 people killed. Many, many people in the hospital gravely injured.
They will be dying. Many people will be dying in addition.

If we had guns, or if they had guns on the other side of the room, with the
bullets going in the opposite direction, you would not have had 130 people
killed. That I can tell you right now.

(APPLAUSE)

So I'm a very, very big supporter of the Second Amendment.

BAIER: But in 2000, you wrote in your book, ''I generally oppose gun control,
but I support the ban on assault weapons.''

TRUMP: I don't support it anymore. I do not support the ban on assault.

(AUDIENCE BOOS)

BAIER: Senator Cruz? Any limits to the Second Amendment?

CRUZ: Well, listen, unlike Donald, I would not support banning firearms. In that
instance, Bill Clinton banned many of the most popular firearms in America. And
by the way, the study showed that ban did nothing to reduce violent crime. It
just took away the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding citizens.

(APPLAUSE)

And let me point out, you know, it is easy for political candidates to have
rhetoric and say, ''I support the Second Amendment.'' But you cannot say that
and at the same time say what Donald just said, which is that on the question of
Supreme Court nominees he wants to compromise and reach a middle ground with
Harry Reid and Chuck Schumer. That's what he said in the last debate.

TRUMP: I -- I did not say that. I did not say that.

CRUZ: And any justice that Harry Reid and Chuck Schumer sign off on...

TRUMP: I did not say that.

CRUZ: And I would point out, Harry Reid and Chuck Schumer are both Democrats
that Mr. Trump has written checks to repeatedly. Any justice that those two sign
off on is going to be a left-wing judicial activist who will undermine religious
liberty, and we are one vote away from the Heller decision being overturned,
which would effectively erase the Second Amendment from the Bill of Rights.

If you care about the Second Amendment, then you need to ask who on this stage
do you know will appoint principled constitutionalists to the court and not cut
a deal with your Second Amendment rights?

BAIER: Mr. Trump...

TRUMP: So we're listening to the all-talk, no-action politician, and he was the
primary supporter of John Roberts, who gave us Obamacare.

CRUZ: That's flat-out wrong.

TRUMP: No, it's not. You take a look. He was the primary supporter. He pushed
John Roberts, and pushed him, and pushed him, and Bush ultimately appointed him.
He got appointed. And when it came his time to raise his hand and kill
Obamacare, not once, but twice, he let us down, and he did the wrong thing.

This is the man that was the primary supporter. And you can read law journal,
you can read whatever you want to read -- I've read plenty of it. There was no
stronger supporter of John Roberts than him. And it was a very, very big
mistake.

BAIER: Quickly, Senator Cruz. CRUZ: You know, Donald has a tenuous relationship
with the truth.

(LAUGHTER)

I wrote one op-ed supporting President Bush's nomination after he made it. I
would not have made that nomination. But let me point out...

TRUMP: Not what you say in the op-ed.

CRUZ: ... if Donald actually cared about...

TRUMP: That is not what you said in the op-ed.

CRUZ: But, Donald, please, I know it's hard not to interrupt. But try.

TRUMP: Yeah, I know it is. But it's not what you said in the op-ed.

CRUZ: Breathe, breathe, breathe.

TRUMP: Lyin' Ted.

CRUZ: You can do it. You can breathe. I know it's hard. I know it's hard. But
just...

RUBIO: When they're done with the yoga, can I answer a question?

CRUZ: You cannot.

(LAUGHTER)

RUBIO: Unbelievable.

CRUZ: I really hope that we don't -- we don't see yoga on this stage.

RUBIO: Well, he's very flexible, so you never know.

(APPLAUSE)

CRUZ: But you cannot, in fact, care about conservative Supreme Court justices
and support Jimmy Carter for president. You cannot care about conservative
Supreme Court justices and support John Kerry for president, as Donald did. You
cannot care about conservative Supreme Court justices and support Harry Reid for
Senate majority leader.

And you cannot care about conservative Supreme Court justices and write four
checks to Hillary Clinton for her to be president if you care at all about the
Second Amendment or religious liberty or anything else.

BAIER: Gentlemen, gentlemen, we're going to move on. Thank you very much. We
want to talk about some more policy questions coming up.

WALLACE: And coming up, the candidates tackle foreign policy. But first, during
the commercial break, join us for a Facebook live on the Fox News Facebook page
and tell us what you think about tonight's debate in the comments section. Stay
with us. More to come. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)

KELLY: Welcome back, everybody. We're going it get right back to the questions.

WALLACE: And gentlemen, we're going to focus for a bit now on foreign policy.

Senator Rubio, you like to take a shot at Mr. Trump on the campaign trail saying
that negotiating a hotel deal in a foreign country is not foreign policy. The
other day you even compared him to Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, as
lunatics trying to get a hold of nuclear weapons.

Please tell Mr. Trump why he's unprepared to be commander-in- chief.

RUBIO: Well, first of all, I think, as we've seen throughout this campaign,
Donald has not shown a seriousness about the issues of foreign policy. He just
simply hasn't.

Whether it was the structure of our military, even today he was asked a question
about the issue of commanders not following his lead on killing the family of
terrorists. And his answer basically was, if I tell them to do it, they're going
to do it. Now that's just not true.

Foreign policy is not only consequential, I think much of our future now depends
on it. You know, I see a lot of young people at my events around the country. I
feel great when they come.

And I always them that despite the hardships of the moment, I honestly believe
that today's Millennials have a chance to be the greatest generation we've had
in 100 years. I really do.

Because the world today has hundreds of millions of people that can afford to be
their clients, their customers, their partners, people they collaborate with.
But that won't happen if the world is dangerous and it's unstable.

And that will require strong American leadership. The next president of the
United States is going to have eight years of a mess of a foreign policy to
clean up. That's why it can't be Hillary Clinton.

And quite frankly, that's why it can't be someone who simply has not shown the
intellectual curiosity or the interest in learning about these very complicated
issues. And Donald simply hasn't.

WALLACE: Mr. Trump, your response.

TRUMP: Well, let me just say this. I've gotten to know Marco over a period of
time, believe me, he is not a leader. Believe me.

RUBIO: But that doesn't answer the question. (CROSSTALK)

WALLACE: He didn't interrupt you. Let him talk.

TRUMP: He didn't answer -- he's not a leader. And, frankly, when I say they'll
do as I tell them, they'll do as I tell them. And that's very -- it's very
simple. It's very simple.

We are in a very dangerous place. We have a depleted military. Totally depleted.
We have -- by the way, our vets are treated horribly. We're going to take care
of our vets. We're going to start taking care of our vets, properly, like we
should.

(APPLAUSE)

But we're going to build up our military, and we're going to get the equipment
we want, not the equipment that's sold to us by somebody that gave him and him
and not the governor campaign contributions. OK? We're going to get the
equipment that the generals and the soldiers want.

I will prove to be a great leader. And, you know, it's very interesting, we talk
about the polls. Every single poll when it comes to ISIS and the military and
the border say, by far, Trump is the best.

WALLACE: Mr. Trump, your time is up.

RUBIO: Yeah, I just want to -- a couple points. Once again, he was pressed on a
policy issue to show his understanding of the foreign policy, and his reaction
was just to attack somebody else with a name.

Here's the bottom line. And I'm going to repeat it again. The world today is as
complicated and as complex as it has been certainly in a very -- certainly in
the lifetime of anybody here today. You indeed do have a lunatic in North Korea
with nuclear weapons. You indeed do have the Chinese government taking over the
most important shipping lane in the world. And Vladimir Putin, who you've
expressed admiration for, Donald...

TRUMP: Wrong. Wrong.

RUBIO: You've expressed admiration for him.

TRUMP: Wrong.

(CROSSTALK)

RUBIO: Donald, you said he's a strong leader.

TRUMP: Wrong.

RUBIO: He is now dividing Europe up...

TRUMP: He said very good things about me, and I said...

(CROSSTALK)

RUBIO: All right, I'm going to finish my statement here.

TRUMP: Yeah, finish.

RUBIO: And he's also sowing instability in the Middle East. You have Iran who's
going to get $100 billion of sanctions relief. You have radical jihadists
spreading all over the world. This is a time for seriousness on these issues.
You have yet to answer a single serious question about any of this. Will you
give us a detailed answer about foreign policy any time you're asked on it?

TRUMP: Let me just tell you, first of all, I've been hearing this man so long
talking about Putin. Putin said about me -- I didn't say about Putin -- Putin
said very nice things about me. And I say very nicely, wouldn't it be nice if
actually we could get along with Russia, we could get along with foreign
countries, instead of spending trillions and trillions of dollars?

You're talking about Flint, Michigan. You're talking about places -- we need to
rebuild the infrastructure of our country. Wouldn't it be nice if we got along
with the world, and maybe Russia could help us in our quest to get rid of ISIS,
et cetera, et cetera?

(CROSSTALK)

WALLACE: Gentlemen, you both have had a chance to talk. You both have had a
chance to talk a couple of times. I'd like to move on to Senator Cruz. Senator,
we have some breaking news tonight. North Korea's dictator, Kim Jong-un, has
ordered that country's nuclear weapons to be made ready at a moment's notice.

CRUZ: Yes. Yes.

WALLACE: And this comes just hours after the U.N. Security Council announced
that -- approved the toughest sanctions in two decades against that country.
Assume you're President Cruz tonight. What do you do?

CRUZ: Well, you're right, the news is very disturbing that Kim Jong-un has put
their nuclear weapons on ready state. I'm glad that we're sending another
carrier group to the South China Sea. I'm glad that Congress passed sanctions on
North Korea.

But this is all the result of the failures of the Clinton administration two
decades ago that negotiated a deal with North Korea lifting the sanctions,
allowing billions of dollars to flow in, and they used that money to develop
nuclear weapons in the first place.

What we -- now we're in a much harder position. When you have a lunatic with
nuclear weapons, to some extent, it constrains your options. We need to be
moving the carrier -- carrier group to the South China Seas. We -- we need to be
putting in place missile defense, such as the THAAD missile defense system in
South Korea.

We need to be pursuing space-based missile defense. One of the advantages of
space-based missile defense is that if you have a missile launch in North Korea
or you have a missile launch in Iran, a space-based missile defense can take out
one or two or three missiles before it can cross over and do damage.

And we also need to be putting pressure on China, because North Korea is
effectively a -- a client state of China. All of that will happen with a strong
commander-in-chief that is devoted to keeping this country safe.

WALLACE: Thank you, Senator.

Governor Kasich, I want to move back to the debate that we heard earlier about
Vladimir Putin. In December, after Vladimir Putin had some nice thing to say
about Donald Trump, calling him bright and talented, your campaign ran a video
suggesting that Trump might name the Russian president as his running mate.
Here's a clip.

KASICH: I'll have to see this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

(UNKNOWN): If elected, Trump promised that the dictatorial duo would, quote,
''make tyranny great again.''

TRUMP: I think I'd get along very well with Vladimir Putin. I just think so.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(LAUGHTER)

WALLACE: That was your campaign video, sir.

KASICH: That was a pretty good one.

WALLACE: Well, OK.

KASICH: No, I...

(CROSSTALK)

WALLACE: If I may -- sir, if I may ask my question...

KASICH: Of course.

WALLACE: I think you were kidding...WALLACE: But it was your video and the
serious question is, because the suggestion is, do you think that Donald Trump
is naive about the threat that Vladimir Putin represents?

KASICH: I'm not biting. Let me take you around the world, OK? Let me -- look,
I'm going to take you very quickly.

In Russia, we need to tell them we're going to arm the Ukrainians with defensive
lethal weapons. And we're going to tell Putin if you attack anybody in Eastern
Europe in NATO, you attack Finland and Sweden, which is not in NATO, consider it
an attack on us. And he will understand that.

Secondly, I would tell the Chinese you don't own the South China Sea. Stop
hacking us. And we're going to beef up our cyber command. And we're going to be
in a position to be able to take out your systems if you continue to do this.

Now let's move over into the Middle East. The Egyptians, they know they're on
their last legs there because of the attack from ISIS. The Jordanians are --
really have been our friends. They know that they are at risk. So do the Saudis.
So do the Gulf states.

They are our allies, really, or have similar aims, we need to bring them closer
to us. Turkey a critical avenue to the Middle East. We have to bring them
towards the West, and not towards the East.

WALLACE: Governor...

KASICH: And we have a joint, good human intelligence. That is called a semi-trip
around the world. And if you gave me more time, I'd finish the trip.

WALLACE: Governor, thank you.

KASICH: Thank you.

BAIER: Coming up, a final question and closing statements. And take a look at
this. The volume of conversation on Facebook surrounding the remaining
candidates over the last month. Whether that conversation is good or bad, Donald
Trump clearly dominates the field.

We'll be back with more of the Republican presidential debate live from Detroit.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BAIER: Welcome back to the Republican presidential debate. Let's get back at it.

Gentlemen, this is the last question of the night. It has been a long time since
our first debate, seven months ago in Cleveland. A lot has transpired since
then, obviously, including an RNC pledge that all of you signed agreeing to
support the party's nominee and not to launch an independent run. Tonight, in 30
seconds, can you definitively say you will support the Republican nominee, even
if that nominee is Donald J. Trump?

Senator Rubio, yes or no?

RUBIO: I'll support the Republican nominee.

BAIER: Mr. Trump? Yes or no?

RUBIO: I'll support Donald if he's the Republican nominee, and let me tell you
why. Because the Democrats have two people left in the race. One of them is a
socialist. America doesn't want to be a socialist country. If you want to be a
socialist country, then move to a socialist country.

The other one is under FBI investigation. And not only is she under FBI
investigation, she lied to the families of the victims of Benghazi, and anyone
who lies to the families of victims who lost their lives in the service of our
country can never be the commander- in-chief of the United States.

BAIER: Senator...

RUBIO: We must defeat Hillary Clinton.

BAIER: Senator Cruz, yes or no, you will support Donald Trump is he's the
nominee?

CRUZ: Yes, because I gave my word that I would. And what I have endeavored to do
every day in the Senate is do what I said I would do. You know, just on Tuesday,
we saw an overwhelming victory in the state of Texas where I won Texas by 17
percent.

And I will say it was a powerful affirmation that the people who know me best,
the people who I campaigned, who made promises that if you elect me, I'll lead
the fight against Obamacare, I'll lead the fight against amnesty, I'll lead the
fight against our debt, and I will fight for the Bill of Rights and your rights
every day, that the people of Texas said you have kept your word, and that's
what I'll do as president.

BAIER: Governor Kasich, yes or no, would you support Donald Trump as the
Republican nominee?

KASICH: Yeah. But -- and I kind of think that, before it's all said and done,
I'll be the nominee. But let me also say...

(APPLAUSE)

But let me also say, remember...

BAIER: But your answer is yes?

KASICH: But I'm the little engine that can. And, yeah, look, when you're in the
arena, and we're in the arena. And the people out here watching -- we're in the
arena, we're traveling, we're working, we spend time away from our family, when
you're in the arena, you enter a special circle. And you want to respect the
people that you're in the arena with. So if he ends up as the nominee --
sometimes, he makes it a little bit hard -- but, you know, I will support
whoever is the Republican nominee for president.

(APPLAUSE)

WALLACE: Mr. Trump, I'm going to ask you a version of the same question. As we
saw today with Mitt Romney, the #NeverTrump movement is gaining steam. Some
people are talking about contributing millions of dollars to try to stop you.
Again today, you raised the possibility that you might run as an independent if
you feel you're treated unfairly by the Republican Party.

So I'm going to phrase the question that the other three people on this stage
just got. Can you definitively say tonight that you will definitely support the
Republican nominee for president, even if it's not you?

TRUMP: Even if it's not me?

(LAUGHTER)

Let me just start off by saying...

WALLACE: Thirty seconds, sir.

TRUMP: ... OK -- that I'm very, very proud of -- millions and millions of people
have come to the Republican Party over the last little while. They've come to
the Republican Party. And by the way, the Democrats are losing people. This is a
trend that's taking place. It's the biggest thing happening in politics, and I'm
very proud to be a part of it. And I'm going to give them some credit, too, even
though they don't deserve it. But the answer is: Yes, I will.

WALLACE: Yes, you will support the nominee of the party? TRUMP: Yes, I will.
Yes. I will.

KELLY: Candidates, it's now time for your closing statements. Governor Kasich,
we'll start with you.

KASICH: Well, ladies and gentlemen, I love being here in Michigan, and I want to
say to all of you here that I have a record of being able to solve some of the
biggest problems. It's not just talk, and it's not theory.

I did it in Washington by helping people get into a healthier economic
situation. I've done it in Ohio. And as we've made progress in Ohio, we've left
no one behind. We've not left behind the mentally ill, the drug addicted, the
working poor, the developmental disabled, and we have raised our minority
community.

And as president of the United States, I will go back to Washington, I will take
the formulas that I used, and I will -- I will fix the problems in Washington,
and you'll work with me as I send you power to fix your -- your communities,
your neighborhoods, your state, and together, we'll restore the spirit of
America. And I know you want that. Thank you.

(APPLAUSE)

WALLACE: Senator Rubio, 30 seconds, closing statement.

RUBIO: Well, I know this has been an unusual election cycle, as it continues,
and there's a lot of problems in America, and people are truly hurting. But this
election is not just about confronting our problems; it's also about embracing
our opportunities.

I believe the 21st century holds the potential to be the greatest era in the
history of the United States, if we get this election right and if we act now.
If we do, if we do what needs to be done, we can leave our children as the
freest and most prosperous Americans that have ever lived, and the 21st century
can be the greatest era in the amazing story of America. So I ask everyone to
vote for me and join our effort at marcorubio.com.

(APPLAUSE)

BAIER: Senator Cruz, your closing statement?

CRUZ: I want to talk to every soldier and sailor and airman and Marine. I want
to talk to every mom and dad and sister and brother and son and daughter of
someone fighting for this country. For seven years, you've had a
commander-in-chief that doesn't believe in you, that sends you into combat with
rules of engagement that tie your arms behind your back. That is wrong. It is
immoral. And in January 2017, it will end.

I want to also talk to all the police officers and firefighters and first
responders who have been left behind with this president. Starting in January
2017, I will have your back.

(APPLAUSE)

KELLY: Mr. Trump, your closing statement.

TRUMP: Thank you. I am going to bring jobs back to the United States like nobody
else can. We're going to fix our very depleted military. We're going to take
care of our vets. We're going to strengthen our borders. And you're going to be
very, very proud of this country in just a few years if I'm elected president.
Thank you.

KELLY: Thank you, sir.

And that will do it for the 11th Republican primary debate of the 2016
presidential race. But the night is not over yet.

WALLACE: Not by a long shot. A special edition of ''The O'Reilly Factor'' is
next. And remember, Fox News has the race for the White House covered, all the
way to the conventions and onto the general election.

BAIER: Our thanks to Detroit and the crowd here. Thank you again for joining us.
Have a great evening.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/04/us/politics/transcript-of-the-republican-presi
dential-debate-in-detroit.html

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 6, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Apple Battle Bares Fissure in U.S. Policy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1313 words


WASHINGTON --  The intensifying legal battle over encryption between Apple and
the Justice Department has all but obscured another more subtle division, the
one inside the Obama administration itself.

Driven by competing and sometimes clashing interests about privacy, national
security and the economy, some of the president's most senior aides are staking
out a variety of positions on the issue.

The White House denies there is disagreement over the effort to force Apple to
break into the phone used by one of the terrorists in the San Bernardino,
Calif., shootings, but the differences on how to deal with the broader questions
raised by encryption have become increasingly apparent.

The Federal Bureau of Investigation wants the ability to break into smartphones
and computers for investigations. The Pentagon and intelligence officials worry
that the same techniques could be used by foreign powers or hackers to drain
data from phones used by the United States government, and that countries like
China will demand the same access provided to American law enforcement
officials.

The conflicting positions were on display last week. On Tuesday, James B. Comey
Jr., the director of the F.B.I., testified in Congress about the need for some
kind of government action -- he avoided the word ''legislation'' because the
White House has specifically said it is not seeking that now -- that would
guarantee access to law enforcement, no matter how encryption technology
evolves.

Less than a day later, Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter, talking to
technologists at an annual computer security conference in San Francisco, struck
a very different tone. ''Data security, including encryption, is absolutely
essential'' to the Pentagon, he said. ''None of our stuff works unless it's
connected.'' He also warned against a legislative solution.

A law ''written in an atmosphere of anger or grief,'' he said, is ''not likely
to be the right answer.'' Later he drove home the point, saying ''it would be
better to work this out rather than have a law written.'' And throughout his
talk, Mr. Carter made it clear that he is more interested in securing data than
prying into it.

Administration officials insist the comments do not reflect serious internal
disagreements about policy. They say, for example, that the Justice Department
and F.B.I. also support strong encryption -- with limits -- while the heads of
the intelligence agencies, responsible for securing government communications,
understand the stresses on those investigating serious crimes.

In a statement, the White House said on Friday that ''our policy on encryption
is clear.'' But the policy it described delineated the differing positions
rather than resolving them.

''The United States government firmly supports the development and robust
adoption of strong encryption, which is a key tool to secure commerce and trade,
safeguard private information, promote free expression and association,'' it
said. ''At the same time, encryption poses a grave challenge for our national
security and law enforcement professionals.''

But officials from the National Security Agency, the Department of Homeland
Security and the Pentagon describe meetings in the White House Situation Room
that go over the same territory, and in the end cannot find a middle ground.

The arguments were touched off two and a half years ago, with the revelations by
Edward J. Snowden, the N.S.A. contractor, that the agency had gone to some
lengths to undercut encryption.

There was evidence -- none confirmed, or discussed by the Obama administration
-- that the N.S.A. had gained access to the unencrypted communications of
servers around the world owned by Google and others to tap into foreign
communications. There were suggestions that it had also tampered with the
products of a foreign manufacturer of SIM cards, which go into every mobile
telephone, to make it easier to intercept calls and emails.

The issues were taken up by a presidential commission that included legal
scholars and intelligence experts, like Michael J. Morell, the former deputy
director of the C.I.A., and Richard A. Clarke, a former senior national security
official in the Clinton and Bush administrations who now works in cybersecurity.
Their conclusion was unambiguous in opposing the building of so-called back
doors for encrypted devices.

The commission told President Obama that the United States government should
''not in any way subvert, undermine, weaken or make vulnerable generally
available commercial software,'' and it urged more companies to adapt such
systems.

Last month, Admiral Michael S. Rogers, commander of the United States Cyber
Command -- the Pentagon's digital arm, which both protects the Defense
Department's networks and conducts offensive action -- as well as director of
the N.S.A., echoed that view in remarks to the Atlantic Council.

The view of Admiral Rogers, many experts say, may be affected by the fact that
his agency has the best code-cracking capabilities in the world, and he does not
need to make public what systems he is already inside. Because he cracks the
codes of foreign adversaries (and more than a few allies), he does not need a
warrant, as Mr. Comey does. And his agency's less publicized job is securing the
government's most vital secrets.

With more and more government communications relying on mobile devices,
including a so-called hardened version of the iPhone and the iPad, the N.S.A. is
also not interested in advertising to the world ways in which those devices can
be defeated.

So far Mr. Obama has fully backed legal efforts by the F.B.I. to force Apple to
help authorities unlock the iPhone of the San Bernardino terrorist, who was
killed in the attack. But he has rarely spoken about the broader questions, and
when asked recently, a senior administration official said the White House still
does not favor legislation to solve the issue.

The encryption issue seems particularly acute at the State Department and the
Commerce Department, both of which have their own sets of concerns.

One of Hillary Clinton's favorite pilot programs as secretary of state,
accelerated during the 2011 Arab Spring crisis, was to equip dissidents and
activists around the world with the ''Internet in a suitcase,'' devices to help
communicate and evade censorship.

But the system relies on encrypted conversations, to keep them away from Chinese
state security or Egypt's brutal internal police. Any effort to force Apple to
break that encryption, several American officials said -- insisting on anonymity
because the administration is still debating these issues -- would be replicated
from Beijing to Cairo.

Commerce Department officials have made the point that if Congress ultimately
mandates that all encrypted products must be accessible to investigators, it
will be a boon to foreign producers of encryption hardware and software. And
there are a lot of them.

Bruce Schneier, a cybersecurity expert, published a study recently that said
there were ''at least 865 hardware or software products incorporating encryption
from 55 different countries.'' After the United States, Germany tops the list
with 112. Most products, Mr. Schneier said recently, ''are as good as what you
would find in the United States.''

But so far users are not flocking to them in mass numbers for a simple reason:
For novices, they can be hard to use.

Apple's design is of particular concern to the F.B.I. because the encryption is
automatic; users do not have to do a thing to make it work. As a recent Harvard
study about the problem of ''going dark'' -- when law enforcement can no longer
get access to evidence because of technological advances -- pointed out, the
more times users have to manipulate the programs, the greater the opportunity
for error.

Which is exactly what the F.B.I. is hoping for.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/06/us/politics/competing-interests-on-encryption-
divide-top-obama-officials.html

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter, above, and James B. Comey
Jr., the F.B.I. director, right, disagreed about action on encryption. Mr.
Carter said laws passed in anger were not the answer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN
CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 T. J. KIRKPATRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A24)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 6, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

When Hackers Attack

BYLINE: By P. W. SINGER.

P. W. Singer is strategist and senior fellow at New America, and the author of
several books, including ''Cybersecurity and Cyberwar: What Everyone Needs to
Know'' and ''Ghost Fleet: A Novel of the Next World War.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1271 words


DARK TERRITORYThe Secret History of Cyber War By Fred Kaplan338 pp. Simon &
Schuster. $28.  ''If history were taught in the form of stories, it would never
be forgotten,'' Rudyard Kipling said. ''Dark Territory'' takes this approach in
trying to tell what it calls in its subtitle ''The Secret History of Cyber
War.''

A Pulitzer Prize winner in journalism and now a columnist for Slate, Fred
­Kaplan has written a number of highly regarded books on national security
issues, including ''The Wizards of Armageddon,'' on the creation of Cold War
nuclear strategy; ''Daydream Believers,'' about the thinkers in the George W.
Bush administration who believed they could transform the world with minimal
costs; and ''The Insurgents,'' about the counterinsurgency theorists who tried
to change the American way of war and (unsuccessfully) clean up the mess left
behind by the people in Kaplan's earlier books.

''Dark Territory'' builds on this trifecta, taking the reader into the world of
the new security topic du jour -- cyberwar. The title comes from the former
secretary of defense Robert Gates, who said that when it comes to the questions
of conflict in the digital age, ''we're wandering in dark territory.'' There is
widespread uncertainty not just about how a cyberwar should be fought, but also
over the fundamentals of who should fight it and even whether it is a war or
not.

Kaplan follows Kipling's advice, gathering the stories of American government
leaders who played key roles in the development of cybersecurity policy. They
range from White House officials and former directors of the National Security
Agency to lesser-known figures like Willis Ware. An engineer turned policy
adviser, Ware wrote the first paper warning of the problems of cybersecurity, in
1967, before Arpanet, the progenitor of the Internet, had even been created.

Kaplan had access to several of these people, and so the book is peppered with
many fascinating behind-the-scenes ­anecdotes. For example, it opens with the
story of Ronald Reagan watching the 1983 Matthew Broderick hacker movie
''WarGames,'' which led him to ask for the first national security policy
directive on information systems security. At their best, these stories
ultimately come together, often in surprising ways. The writers of the very same
movie that so troubled Reagan turn out to have been advised by Ware, some 15
years after his first warnings.

There are, however, two problems with this history-by-story approach. The first
is that the anecdotes and characters often come and go too fast. Many last a
mere paragraph or two, never to be brought back. The same flaw weakens the
overall book, which lacks summation or closure.

This is unfortunate, as several recurring themes are there to be pulled out.
This 2016 election campaign has already seen much debate over monitoring the
communications not only of potential bad guys but also of a far greater number
of American citizens innocent of any wrongdoing. ''Dark Territory'' shows that
this tension dates back decades, and that the government has consistently leaned
toward more monitoring and data collection.

The point is an important one, ­especially since Kaplan also convincingly shows
that whatever we are able to do to others, they will most likely find a way to
do to us. ­Decades after Ware warned that the only completely secure computer is
one nobody can use, the United States developed the Stuxnet computer virus,
which was able to leap across most known ­defenses to sabotage Iranian nuclear
research. This, however, inspired Iran to create Shamoon, a computer virus it
used in an attack that wiped out the hard drives in over 30,000 computers at the
Saudi ­Aramco company. A foe like Iran can be hit in new ways, but also should
be expected to develop the digital means to hit back.

The worry is that unlike in the Cold War, there is no mutuality; the United
States is more dependent on the Internet than its adversaries. ''If America, or
U.S. Cyber Command, wanted to wage cyber war,'' Kaplan writes, ''it would do so
from inside a glass house.'' To put it another way, the stories in ''Dark
Territory'' detail how much attention has been focused on building new kinds of
cyberoffenses and not enough on the means to ward off attacks. Too few in a
position to influence policy seem to be asking if this may be the equivalent of
trying to protect that glass house with a stone-sharpening kit.

Which leads to the second problem: selection bias. Kipling's lesson on the value
of history told through stories depends on a crucial aspect; the stories chosen
have to be interesting, important and reflective. Though ''Dark Territory'' is
presented as a ''secret history,'' it is really a collection of the
not-so-secret, often less-than-exciting accounts of mid- and executive-level
­insiders, mostly at the National Security Agency, who debated and formulated
cybersecurity policy.

That's not necessarily a bad thing. But it means Kaplan's narrative by story is
far from complete, and too often not memorable. ''Dark Territory'' is a book
more about the briefings, commission reports and meetings of study groups than
it is about actual operations. For instance, you get the inside story of how
various policy directives did or didn't make their way to the White House. That
22 N.S.A. officers were killed in Iraq and Afghanistan, though, is mentioned
merely in an aside. Similarly, the Snowden affair is told essentially from the
vantage point of the review panel President Obama delegated to write a report on
it, after the fact. Who Snowden was, how and why he did what he did, the
operations he revealed and the repercussions all get about as much coverage as
how the five members of the temporary commission decided where to locate their
office.

This selection also shapes the questions that aren't asked. Kaplan tells us that
a small group of policy makers became consumed by the fear that ''a handful of
technical savants, from just down the street or the other side of the globe,
could devastate the nation.'' Exciting stuff, except that is the conclusion of a
working group in 1995. What neither the insiders nor ­Kaplan himself seems
willing to wrestle with is why this fear of a ''cyber Pearl Harbor,'' which
drives almost all of the book, not to mention billions in spending in the real
world, never actually happened over the ensuing two decades.

What did happen instead was a wide range of other activities below the level of
outright conflict, from digital espionage to mass intellectual-property theft to
­cybercrime costing hundreds of billions of dollars. These harms all get short
shrift, again reflecting the sources and focus of a book that presents its
history only through a Washington, D.C., N.S.A.-centric lens. When private
industry does make an appearance, it is usually because some unnamed executive
has frustrated a government official by not being willing to do exactly what he
or she wanted since it wasn't in that executive's business interest.

In much the same way, foreign governments are black boxes in Kaplan's book.
Perhaps this is simply an indication that leaders in Washington are having a
hard time accepting a simple fact -- that while the Internet may have been
created by a United States government research program, it is no longer under
American ­government control, or even American in its makeup.

That is to say, ''Dark Territory'' packs in a great deal of material, yet also
not enough. It is a readable and informative history of policy formulation. But
the overall darkness from which the book takes its title remains to be lifted.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/06/books/review/dark-territory-the-secret-history
-of-cyber-war-by-fred-kaplan.html

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A cybersecurity analyst at Idaho National Laboratory.
(PHOTOGRAPH FROM AP PHOTO/MARK J. TERRILL)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 13, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Editors' Choice | Recent Books of Particular Interest

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 294 words


Nine new books recommended by the editors of The New York Times Book Review this
week.

THE CIVIL WARS OF JULIA WARD HOWE: A Biography, by Elaine Showalter. (Simon &
Schuster, $28.) A riveting and frankly distressing biography of the poet,
critic, abolitionist and women's rights activist, stymied by her husband.

CONSTANCE FENIMORE WOOLSON: Portrait of a Lady Novelist, by Anne Boyd Rioux.
(Norton, $32.95.) An appreciation of the 19th-century writer, an unmarried expat
and friend of Henry James.

YOU COULD LOOK IT UP: The Reference Shelf From Ancient Babylon to Wikipedia, by
Jack Lynch. (Bloomsbury, $30.) A lively and erudite history of the passion for
putting things in order.

ALL THE SINGLE LADIES: Unmarried Women and the Rise of an Independent Nation, by
Rebecca Traister. (Simon & Schuster, $27.) A deeply researched and
thought-provoking examination of the role of single women throughout history.

EVERY SONG EVER: Twenty Ways to Listen in an Age of Musical Plenty, by Ben
Ratliff. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) Well-written and widely ranging essays
on aspects of music from the Times critic.

PANDEMIC: Tracking Contagions, From Cholera to Ebola and Beyond, by Sonia Shah.
(Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) A science writer offers a survey of recent
outbreaks since the 2003 SARS epidemic.

PLAYING TO THE EDGE: American Intelligence in the Age of Terror, by Michael V.
Hayden. (Penguin Press, $30.) The former C.I.A. director makes the case for
Bush-era security measures.

DARK TERRITORY: The Secret History of Cyber War, by Fred Kaplan. (Simon &
Schuster, $28.) An informative look at policy toward cyberwar.

CITIES I'VE NEVER LIVED IN: Stories, by Sara Majka. (A Public Space/Graywolf;
paper, $16.) Moving tales about complicated relationships.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/13/books/review/editors-choice.html

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 15, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Amid ISIS Battles, American Surrenders in Iraq

BYLINE: By KAMIL KAKOL and NICHOLAS FANDOS; Kamil Kakol reported from
Sulaimaniya, and Nicholas Fandos from Alexandria, Va. Reporting was contributed
by Tim Arango from Istanbul; Rukmini Callimachi and Karen Yourish from New York;
Sewell Chan from London; and Eric Schmitt and Matt Apuzzo from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 608 words


SULAIMANIYA, Iraq --  Before dawn on Monday, Kurdish soldiers noticed a man
approaching them near the ancient city of Sinjar, the site of violent clashes
with Islamic State fighters. The soldiers sounded an alarm, warning of a
possible suicide bomber. But the man soon called out in a mixture of broken
Arabic and perfect English that he wanted to surrender.

He was unarmed and was carrying three cellphones, said Sarbaz Hama Ameen, a
Kurdish pesh merga officer who was present. He also had a few thousand dollars
in mixed currency and, most surprising, a Virginia driver's license.

Within hours, the American authorities were investigating how a young man from
the Washington suburbs ended up in northern Iraq, near the border with Syria, in
the midst of the bloody war with the Islamic State. The F.B.I was trying to
piece together his travels and figure out what drew him there.

Little was certain, including the man's identity. Kurdish officials originally
released one name, then circulated the driver's license bearing a different one:
Mohamad Jamal Khweis, 26. In Alexandria, Va., at the address on the license, a
man identified as Mr. Khweis's father alternated between defending his son to
reporters, denying he was his father and making threats.

''Listen to me what I'm saying: He's old enough. I cannot ask him where he's
going, where he's coming from,'' said the man, Jamal Khweis. He said he had
spoken to the F.B.I. but did not know where his son was. ''You say he's in Iraq.
He's not. I know he will never go there.''

At one point, he turned a hose on the reporters gathered on the front yard of
his townhouse.

''I have nothing to say,'' he said. ''I don't know anything about my son.''

Scores of Americans have traveled to Iraq and Syria to join the violent mishmash
of terrorist groups and rebels, and the F.B.I. has arrested many others who have
tried. Sometimes, the United States becomes aware of Americans fighters in the
region. But by late Monday, there was no indication that authorities had known
that Mr. Khweis was in Iraq.

''We're aware of the reports, aware that the U.S. citizen allegedly fighting for
ISIL has been captured by pesh merga forces in northern Iraq,'' Capt. Jeff
Davis, a Pentagon spokesman, said in a statement, using the administration's
acronym for the Islamic State. ''We're in touch with Iraqi and Kurdish
authorities to determine the veracity of these reports.''

Law enforcement officials said they were still trying to confirm whether Mr.
Khweis had fought alongside the Islamic State. Kurdish forces recaptured Sinjar,
near where Mr. Khweis surrendered, from the Islamic State in November.

If he did fight with the terrorist group, he would be the first American known
to have surrendered in the field, according to Seamus Hughes, an expert on
Islamist extremism at the Center for Cyber and Homeland Security at George
Washington University.

Although domestic plots from the Islamic State may cause alarm, fighting abroad
has been the driving force among those in the United States inspired by the
group, said Karen J. Greenberg, executive director of the Center on National
Security at the Fordham University School of Law. All told, almost all of those
charged were American citizens or permanent residents. About 40 percent had
converted to Islam. Nearly three-quarters were under 30, and all but 12 were
male.

Mr. Khweis is believed to have graduated from Thomas A. Edison High School in
Alexandria, Va. His father is a limousine driver; his mother is a licensed
cosmetologist.

His brother, Tamer, spoke briefly to reporters. ''We're thankful,'' he said.
''That's it, we're thankful.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/15/world/middleeast/american-isis-fighter.html

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A photograph on social media shows a man the Kurdish military
says is an American who turned himself in on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH VIA ASSOCIATED
PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 16, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Bangladesh, Official Quits After Theft of $81 Million

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE; Peter Eavis contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 720 words


A spreading scandal over the mysterious electronic theft of $81 million from
Bangladesh's official account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York prompted
the governor of that country's central bank to resign Tuesday, and three of his
subordinates were fired.

They were the first political casualties since the theft came to light this
month, when news reports from the Philippines said unidentified hackers using
official electronic bank messaging technology had diverted the money in early
February. Most or all of the stolen money, one of the biggest electronic heists
in history, is thought to have been transferred to accounts in the Philippines.

The Bangladesh central bank governor, Atiur Rahman, a widely respected
economist, appeared to be caught by surprise, having learned of the theft only
from Philippines news reports about a money-laundering investigation there. Last
week he threatened to sue the New York Fed, a critical global financial gateway
that holds the deposits of many foreign central banks.

The New York Fed said in a statement last Wednesday that the transfer of the
money had been ''fully authenticated'' by an international financial messaging
system, known as Swift, suggesting that there may have been a security breach in
Bangladesh. The Fed statement said its systems had not been compromised.

With pressure intensifying to explain how such a theft could have happened, Mr.
Rahman submitted his resignation on Tuesday, and Bangladesh news agencies said
it was accepted by Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina.

The news agencies also said the Finance Ministry had dismissed two deputy
central bank governors and the Bank and Financial Institutions division
secretary, who were all accused of having kept the theft a secret from their
superiors.

Mr. Rahman, who had held the central bank post for seven years, said in Dhaka
that he had been conflicted about the decision to resign. He also said he had
informed foreign law enforcement authorities and had brought in cybercrime
specialists to help investigate.

''Such cyberattacks are happening across the world,'' Mr. Rahman said, according
to news accounts from Bangladesh. ''We are new in facing such attacks. We lack
experience.''

A spokeswoman for FireEye, a computer security company in Milpitas, Calif.,
confirmed on Tuesday that its forensics division Mandiant was helping to
investigate the Bangladesh theft.

Reuters, quoting unidentified banking officials, reported on March 10 that the
hackers appeared to have been intent on transferring nearly $1 billion out of
Bangladesh's account, with nearly three dozen messaging requests. They succeeded
with four requests, totaling $81 million, to move money to the Philippines,
before a fifth attempt, for $20 million to be sent to Sri Lanka, was stopped
because the hackers misspelled the recipient's name as the Shalika Fandation
instead of the Shalika Foundation.

The banking officials also were quoted as saying they were suspicious because of
the unusually high number of transfer requests, so they alerted the
Bangladeshis.

Why a month elapsed before the news came to light remains unclear, as are the
prospects for recovering any of the money.

While incomes and living standards have improved, Bangladesh remains one of the
poorest countries in the region. A 2014 study by Oxford University, using data
on the percentage of the population considered destitute, ranked Bangladesh as
the third-most impoverished in South Asia, after Afghanistan and India.

The resignation and firings in Bangladesh came as testimony in a Philippines
Senate panel hearing about the money-laundering investigation suggested that
most of the purloined Bangladesh funds had been delivered, in dollars and
Philippine pesos, to three Philippines casino operators. An
anti-money-laundering law in the Philippines does not apply to the gambling
industry.

The senator leading the hearing, Teofisto Guingona III, said the loophole abets
money laundering, an important ingredient in the crime that victimized
Bangladesh's central bank.

''The funds can easily be traced until the casinos,'' the senator said,
according to the Philippines News Agency account of the hearing. ''Once it is in
the casino, it seems it was a dark cave, it was just one big cave, a black hole
which we cannot trace anymore.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/16/world/asia/bangladesh-bank-chief-resigns-after
-cyber-theft-of-81-million.html

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 16, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

What to Watch Wednesday

BYLINE: By JOSHUA BARONE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 526 words


Keri Russell and Matthew Rhys are back at it as Soviet spies posing as
suburbanites in the premiere of the fourth season of ''The Americans.'' And
''The Big Short,'' Adam McKay's Oscar-nominated comedy about the 2008 financial
crisis, is available for digital rental.

What's on TV

THE AMERICANS 10 p.m. on FX. This series, back for its fourth season, began with
a delicious premise: Two K.G.B. officers (Keri Russell and Matthew Rhys) play an
American couple, fooling even their children and their neighbor who's an F.B.I.
agent. ''The physical danger,'' James Poniewozik wrote in The New York Times
about the new season, ''makes it thrilling. The emotional danger makes it
irresistible.'' By the end of the last season, their teenage daughter was in on
the family secret. She even told the minister at her church. (What to do with
him?) Then there are the other characters and gnarly subplots. (Image: Ms.
Russell)

SCHITT'S CREEK 8 p.m. on Pop. Eugene Levy and Catherine O'Hara, who have played
a married couple before, are together again in the second season of this
idiom-inspired Canadian sitcom about a husband and wife's riches-to-rags misery.
They are Johnny and Moira Rose, who lost their wealth and are left to live in
their last asset: a run-down town they bought long ago as a joke.

CRIMINAL MINDS: BEYOND BORDERS 10 p.m. on CBS. Spinoffs of mainstream crime
dramas feel like an inevitability at this point. The ''CSI'' franchise, done
with putting down roots in new cities, came out with ''CSI: Cyber.'' And
''Criminal Minds,'' after its short-lived spinoff ''Suspect Behavior,'' now
takes us outside the United States for global, occasionally glamorous, misdeeds.
This isn't a good show, Mike Hale wrote in The Times, ''but you can see the
warm-bath appeal of its consistency and the insidious way in which it combines
splatter-film scare tactics with pop-psychology platitudes and affirmations.''

What's Streaming

THE BIG SHORT (2015) on iTunes. This Oscar-nominated adaptation of Michael
Lewis's book about the 2008 financial crisis is, by turns, hilarious and
horrifying. The film has the appeal of a Wall Street madcap comedy -- which
would feel less disturbing if it weren't also a true story. ''At the end, your
brain hurts, and you feel sick to your stomach, as can happen when too much
adrenaline has been surging through your system,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The
Times. ''But that queasy, empty feeling is the point: This is a terrifically
enjoyable movie that leaves you in a state of rage, nausea and despair.''
(Image: Christian Bale)

HAPPY VALLEY on Netflix. Sarah Lancashire is back as Sgt. Catherine Cawood in
this British cop show's second season, whose six episodes are all online. The
season opens with a comedic contrast to the dark finale of the first, and takes
place 18 months later. But, of course, the calm is just a prelude to the pile of
bodies and intrigue that makes for the six-episode arc. This season ''is less
intense but more polished than the first,'' Mike Hale wrote in The Times, ''and
still a superior example of the crime drama that focuses more on the people than
on the crime.'' (Image: Ms. Lancashire)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/16/arts/television/what-to-watch-wednesday.html

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC LIEBOWITZ/FX
JAAP BUITENDIJK/PARAMOUNT PICTURES
 BEN BLACKALL/NETFLIX)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 18, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Players, Classes Don't End Just Because the Games Begin

BYLINE: By JULIET MACUR.

Email: juliet@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 778 words


It was a good day for smart kids at the N.C.A.A. tournament. For the future
lawyers and doctors-in-training, for the future Wall Street executives and
potential judges, for the soon-to-be leaders of science. For those overachievers
-- in this case, the student-athletes from Yale and Duke -- and for their
overachieving classmates who watched them win their first-round games.

The two top-tier academic institutions will meet in the round of 32 on Saturday
in Providence, R.I., and that matchup will surely be a thrill for the alumni who
have degrees from Yale and Duke on their walls. The ex-Blue Devils are most
likely used to this; the Yalies are probably not.

But before the madness really does take over March, before fans start weeping or
rejoicing over their brilliant or bombed-out brackets, I'd like to pause and
consider the student part of these student-athletes who will entertain us for
the next few weeks.

You remember that these athletes are also students? It's hard, I know. Because,
at this time of year, the thrill of the games gets in the way.

Yet throughout this tournament, there will be papers to write and midterms to
study for and books to read and projects to complete, all while the pressure
mounts, the nation watches and some games go late into the night.

Some of Temple's players, for example, are facing midterms just as they are
facing Iowa, a No. 7 seed, on Friday in Brooklyn. Obi Enechionyia, a starting
forward for the 10th-seeded Owls, has a midterm on Monday in financial
accounting and another in business law later that day, then yet another in
marketing on Tuesday.

Matt Ryan, a freshman forward for Notre Dame, has Italian to practice and maybe
a lecture or two to watch online. Then there's that big project due Wednesday in
his anthropology class called Hacking Life: From Cyber Crime to Human
Creativity; for that, Ryan must write a dozen or so pages on how artificial
intelligence applies to combat.

You don't see that on his stat sheet.

''We knew what we were getting into when we signed up for this,'' said Ryan, who
this month was named to the Atlantic Coast Conference's all-academic basketball
team. ''Yes, some teams have a reputation for not paying much attention to
academics, but Notre Dame isn't one of those. For me, it's all about balancing
school and basketball because they're both important.''

You could feel sorry for these students, pulled in two directions by books and
basketball in exchange for a scholarship -- well, except for Yale's, since it
doesn't give athletic scholarships. But it's supposed to be hard.

Still, some players make this tough job look simple. Take Jarrod Uthoff, Iowa's
soft-spoken star. Uthoff's grade point average last semester was a 4.0; overall
it is 3.42.

''You do your work, and you get a good grade,'' Uthoff said, laughing. ''It's
not that hard.''

Still, that academic résumé, plus his equally impressive one in basketball, was
the reason this month he was named the academic all-American of the year in
Division I men's basketball. His teammate, point guard Mike Gesell, was named to
the second team. (Ally Disterhoft, who plays for the Iowa women's team, won the
top women's honor, giving Hawkeyes fans even more to be proud of.)

But those awards don't mean a thing on the basketball court. Or do they? Uthoff,
who is in graduate school for sports management, admits that he has debated his
teachers and his coaches, challenging assumptions and preconceptions about the
way Iowa goes about things.

''Jarrod doesn't just blindly accept what coaches tell him, and always questions
things, always wants to know how to get better,'' Kirk Speraw, one of Iowa's
assistant coaches, said Thursday. ''He's always using that mind of his, and
sometimes he even comes up with better ways to do things.''

Balancing schoolwork with his sport, and finding ways to learn and grow, is all
part of the college experience for Uthoff. He added that he considered a college
experience to be much more than just scoring, rebounding and blocking shots in
basketball, all of which he does spectacularly well. There's plenty of time in
the day for everything -- including fishing outings -- if you just plan for it,
he said.

There are times, though, when even the 6-foot-9, 221-pound Uthoff slips. Like
the time he forgot that he had a paper to write, and remembered only hours
before a midnight deadline. He was on a basketball trip, and it was already 10
p.m., but he sat down and cranked it out.

When asked what grade he received, Uthoff shrugged.

''I don't remember,'' he said.

Prodded, he fessed up.

''Probably an A,'' he said, blushing.

If only the games were that easy.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/18/sports/ncaabasketball/for-players-classes-dont
-end-because-the-games-begins.html

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Temple's Obi Enechionyia, far right, faces seventh-seeded Iowa
in a tournament game on Friday. He also faces two midterms on Monday and another
on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK FRANKLIN II/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 22, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Andrew S. Grove, Who Spurred Semiconductor Revolution, Dies at 79

BYLINE: By JONATHAN KANDELL; John Markoff and Steve Lohr contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 2078 words


Andrew S. Grove, the longtime chief executive and chairman of Intel Corporation
who was one of the most acclaimed and influential personalities of the computer
and Internet era, died on Monday at his home in Los Altos, Calif. He was 79.

The cause has not been determined, said Chuck Mulloy, a spokesman for the
family.

At Intel, Mr. Grove helped midwife the semiconductor revolution -- the use of
increasingly sophisticated chips to power computers -- that proved to be as
momentous for economic and social development as hydrocarbon fuels, electricity
and telephones were in earlier eras. Intel's microprocessors were also essential
for digital cameras, consumer electronic products, household appliances, toys,
manufacturing equipment and a wide assortment of devices that depended on
computerized functions.

Besides presiding over the development of Intel's memory chips and
microprocessors in laboratory research, Mr. Grove gained a reputation as a
ruthlessly effective manager who spurred associates and cowed rivals in a
cutthroat, high-tech business world where companies rose and fell at startling
speed. Mr. Grove's famous slogan, ''Only the Paranoid Survive,'' became the
title of his 1996 best seller describing his management philosophy.

Adding to Mr. Grove's appeal was his rags-to-riches immigrant story. A survivor
of the Nazi Holocaust and the 1956 Soviet invasion of his native Hungary, he
arrived in the United States as a penniless youth who spoke little English and
had severe hearing loss. Within decades, Mr. Grove was worth hundreds of
millions of dollars. And in 1997, he was chosen Man of the Year by Time magazine
for being ''the person most responsible for the amazing growth in the power and
the innovative potential of microchips.''

Mr. Grove in some ways was considered the father of Silicon Valley, said David
B. Yoffie, a professor at Harvard Business School and a longtime Intel board
member. Mr. Grove's influence, Mr. Yoffie said, came largely from his ideas
about organizational practices and design -- Intel was the birthplace of
nonhierarchical, open settings and low-partitioned cubicles rather than
walled-in offices.

Mr. Grove's work ethic, his personal drive and his notion of the value of
''creative confrontation'' became the managerial model for generations of
Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and executives like Apple's co-founder Steven P.
Jobs, who regularly sought Mr. Grove's counsel, Mr. Yoffie said.

Only the Paranoid Survive

Mr. Grove, a tightly coiled, slim man of medium height, was by no means
infallible. Several times during his long involvement with Intel, the Silicon
Valley giant courted disaster. The causes ranged from unexpectedly tough
competition to faulty Intel products to poor management decisions.

But Intel rebounded stronger from each episode, thanks largely to Mr. Grove's
ability to recognize the gravity of a crisis and set a new course. ''There are
waves and then there's a tsunami,'' he wrote in ''Only the Paranoid Survive.''
''When a change in how some element of one's business is conducted becomes an
order of magnitude larger than what that business is accustomed to, then all
bets are off.''

Mr. Grove's management ideas helped make Intel, which has its headquarters in
Santa Clara, Calif., one of the most profitable companies in the world, with an
average annual return of more than 40 percent for its shareholders from the late
1980s to the turn of the century.

Andrew S. Grove was born Andras Grof on Sept. 2, 1936, into a Jewish household
in Budapest. His father owned a small dairy business, and his mother helped keep
the books. As a child, Mr. Grove was afflicted with scarlet fever and an ear
infection that left him almost deaf. His father was rounded up by German troops
occupying Hungary during World War II and sent to a labor camp, where he
survived typhoid and pneumonia.

Meanwhile, the young Mr. Grove and his mother were hidden by a Christian family
until the war's end. In a 1997 Time magazine interview, Mr. Grove recalled that
at age 8 he was told by his mother to assume a Christian alias. ''She explained
to me that I cannot make a mistake, that I had to forget my name,'' Mr. Grove
said.

Liberation from the Nazis was followed by Communist rule in Hungary, and then by
the Hungarian uprising of 1956 that was put down by Russian troops. Mr. Grove,
who was studying chemistry, decided to flee the country after a number of his
fellow students were arrested. He and a friend crossed the border into Austria
after a night spent evading Soviet troops.

Several weeks later, he boarded a refugee ship to New York, and from there was
taken to a former P.O.W. camp in New Jersey until his immigration papers were in
order. ''We thought that all the propaganda was true, that America was just
another drab, totalitarian state,'' said Mr. Grove in a 1995 interview with
Fortune magazine, in which he recalled his first impressions of the United
States.

Mr. Grove, who Americanized his name within weeks, moved in with an aunt and
uncle living in a small Bronx apartment. He enrolled as a chemical engineering
student at the City College of New York, and graduated at the top of his class
despite struggling with English and impaired hearing. Mr. Grove got through
lectures by learning to read lips and then deciphering his notes at home or at
the library. ''I had to go over each day's work again at night with a dictionary
at my side,'' he told The New York Times in a 1960 article that focused on that
year's outstanding CCNY graduates.

In 1958, he married Eva, another Hungarian refugee, whom he met the previous
summer at a New Hampshire resort where both worked as waiters. They moved to
California, where Mr. Grove earned a doctorate in chemical engineering at the
University of California, Berkeley. They had two daughters -- whose names were
never revealed by the media because of Mr. Grove's insistence on protecting
their privacy.

A Hard-Driving Manager

In the early 1960s, Mr. Grove joined Fairchild Semiconductor, a fledgling
computer science company. He led a research team that sought to embed
transistors on wafers of silicon, a low-heat-conducting element commonly found
in sand. Silicon chips -- each with first hundreds, then thousands, and then
millions, of transistors -- vastly lowered the cost and extended the scope of
computers, which had once depended on bulky vacuum tubes that easily overheated
and later arrays of individual transistors. Mr. Grove's team also succeeded in
reducing the instability of transistors by removing sodium impurities from
silicon chips. The widespread use of silicon by upstart computer hardware and
software companies near San Francisco gave Silicon Valley its name.

In 1968, Mr. Grove joined Intel, a new semiconductor manufacturer that emerged
as a Silicon Valley leader. Intel was founded by two former colleagues at
Fairchild, Robert Noyce and Gordon Moore, to supply memory chips for mainframe
computers. Mr. Grove was put in charge of factory production and soon gained a
reputation as a hard-driving manager.

Part of the heavy workload at Intel resulted from Moore's law -- named after Mr.
Moore, who postulated that microchips would double in power and halve in price
every 18 months, thus rendering older chips and the computers that used them
obsolete. To meet voracious market demand for new-generation chips, Mr. Grove
insisted that Intel employees regularly work many overtime hours.

Meetings were kept brief and discussions were heated. ''Andy Grove helped build
a philosophy at Intel Corp. known as 'creative confrontation,'  '' wrote The
Wall Street Journal in 2002. ''The phrase, in essence, means that it's better
for employees to get in shouting matches and solve problems quickly.'' But most
of the shouting was done by Mr. Grove, who was named in 1984 by Fortune as one
of the country's toughest bosses.

When answers from engineers and executives angered him, Mr. Grove ripped off the
bulky hearing aid he wore like earphones and slammed it on the table. (His
hearing was finally corrected in middle age after a half-dozen operations.) In a
2004 New York Times article, Craig Barrett, an Intel colleague who eventually
succeeded him as chief executive officer, said Mr. Grove's management style
''was to hit you over the head with a two-by-four.''

But those who survived the grueling pace were amply rewarded. With their company
briefly reaching a market valuation of more than $500 billion in 2000, several
thousand Intel employees became millionaires by exercising their stock options.
And many of them acknowledged that Mr. Grove's overbearing management had pulled
Intel through crises that often proved fatal to other Silicon Valley companies.

Overcoming a Crisis

The first major crisis was linked to the rise of cheaper, high-quality Japanese
memory chips beginning in the late 1970s. Instead of cutting costs by laying off
staff, Mr. Grove demanded that Intel employees work an extra two hours a day --
for no extra pay. Almost simultaneously, Intel introduced an advanced chip, the
i432 microprocessor, that the company claimed would reshape computing's future.

Instead, it proved a disaster, running five to 10 times more slowly than
competitors. Part of the problem, Mr. Grove conceded in a 2001 interview with
Wired magazine, was that he initially failed to take microprocessors seriously
enough. ''I was running an assembly line designed to build memory chips,'' he
said. ''I saw the microprocessor as a bloody nuisance.''

But with Mr. Grove at the helm, Intel soon made the transition from memory chip
to microprocessor giant. By the early 1980s, personal computers had become a
widespread phenomenon -- and Intel microprocessors powered more than 80 percent
of these new machines. With Microsoft, itself an upstart software company that
had been tapped by IBM to provide an operating system for the company's personal
computer, Intel would completely reshape the computer industry. The two
companies created a duopoly, nicknamed ''Wintel,'' that not only eclipsed IBM's
office dominance, but extended personal computers into homes as well.

Intel's momentum was abruptly halted in 1994 when the company released millions
of flawed Pentium microprocessor chips. Mr. Grove and his engineers reacted by
assuring customers that the glitch would affect only the most advanced sort of
computing processes. That cavalier response led to a public relations -- and
near financial -- disaster for Intel, with thousands of clients demanding
nondefective chips and media stories trumpeting their discontent.

Reversing course, Mr. Grove and Intel agreed to spend $475 million to replace
the defective microprocessors. In the end, the episode lifted the company's
fortunes by making the Pentium and later the Centrino chip a brand name as
recognizable to the public as the Dell, Apple or Sony computers they powered.

Rivals complained that Intel had a stranglehold on microprocessors, by far the
most profitable segment of the semiconductor market. ''It's a problem of
patents, not technology,'' said Lim Hyung Kyu, head of worldwide research for
Samsung Electronics, in a 2004 interview with Institutional Investor magazine.
''And Intel has all the patents.''

Other competitors asserted that Mr. Grove warned big Intel customers, such as
the computer firms Dell, Compaq and Gateway, not to buy microprocessors
elsewhere. ''In my view Intel goes right to the edge -- and sometimes over it --
to exclude people from providing chips to those guys,'' said Jerry Sanders,
chief executive at Advanced Micro Devices, an Intel rival, in a 1997 Time
article.

Mr. Grove served as chief executive of Intel until 1998 and then served as
chairman of the board until 2005. He did not slow the company's pace, even as
Intel entered the Internet era. ''We are now living on Internet time,'' he said
in 1997 at the peak of the dot-com era. ''It's a new territory,'' Mr. Grove
said, ''and the cyber equivalent of the Oklahoma land rush is on.''

In his 50s, Mr. Grove publicly and successfully battled prostate cancer. In 2000
he was found to have Parkinson's disease.

Mr. Grove often insisted that the withering criticism of his management style
and business tactics never troubled him, and that he was unconcerned about his
legacy. ''I've had a wonderful life,'' he told Wired in a lengthy 2001
interview. ''What people are going to write about me 10 years after I'm dead --
who cares?''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/22/technology/andrew-grove-intel-obituary.html

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Andrew Grove in 1991 with a silicon wafer, part of the process
to make Intel's 386 microprocessor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

 Mr. Grove in 2001 with Bill Gates of Microsoft and an assortment of PCs, new
and old. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF CHRISTENSEN/REUTERS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (News)

                             March 22, 2016 Tuesday

Morning Agenda: Leon Cooperman Could Face Showdown With Regulators

BYLINE: AMIE TSANG

LENGTH: 1563 words



HIGHLIGHT: William Ackman Bets Again on Valeant, But It Could Still Crumble |
Marriott Raises Bid for Starwood


 LEON COOPERMAN COULD FACE SHOWDOWN WITH REGULATORS  |  Leon G. Cooperman and
his $5.2 billion hedge fund Omega Advisors received a notice from the Securities
and Exchange Commission saying they could face enforcement action over trading
violations,
Alexandra Stevenson and Matthew Goldstein report in DealBook.

Mr. Cooperman said it was related to the trading of a single security - Atlas
Pipeline - in July 2010 and a possible third party. Omega had been invested in
the security since 2007.

Mr. Cooperman defended himself and his firm vigorously, saying, "I am not going
to let these guys change my legacy."

He said he had been called to testify before the regulator more than a week ago.

"I don't believe the government investigation will have an impact," he added.
"If I were to reach a contrary conclusion, I would close up shop and give you
back your money."

Omega has had a tough time. Its Overseas Partners fund lost 10.4 percent in
2015. The firm is down 6 percent this year.

The investigation indicates that regulators have not given up on pursuing
improper trading cases against the hedge fund industry in spite of an
unfavorable court ruling more than a year ago.

WILLIAM ACKMAN BETS AGAIN ON VALEANT, BUT IT COULD STILL CRUMBLE  |  The
schadenfreude on Wall Street has been thick since William A. Ackman was
dethroned,

Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in DealBook.

Mr. Ackman's funds are down about 47 percent and his miscalculated investment in
Valeant Pharmaceuticals has turned into an unmitigated disaster.

Valeant said it would restate its earnings and pushed J. Michael Pearson, the
chief executive, to step down, Katie Thomas and Andrew Pollack report in The New
York Times. But Mr. Ackman, who made his name spotting financial fraud, missed
signs of chicanery at Valeant.

Mr. Ackman would have to generate returns of 50 to 70 percent in his funds to
earn a performance fee, Mr. Sorkin writes. This would take a near miracle.

The damage from the bet has also cascaded across Wall Street and around the
world.  Some followed Mr. Ackman into Valeant, Deutsche Bank helped underwrite a
public offering for Mr. Ackman's funds. UBS also led Mr. Ackman's offerings.

The Rothschild Bank and its wealth management unit bought $274 million of
Pershing stock on behalf of its clients. Qatar's investment fund also took a
$141 million stake. The Blackstone Group bought into the offering as well as
working as an adviser to Pershing. Even Carl Icahn, Mr. Ackman's former nemesis,
has taken a hit via his stake in American International Group, which has a stake
in Mr. Ackman's fund.
Pension funds that manage money for teachers, police and firefighters have
stakes in Pershing too.

All this has set off gossip in New York real estate circles, where agents have
begun speculating about the future of Mr. Ackman's property investments.

Mr. Ackman believes he can get back to even within a year, but he may have to
turn things around sooner as May is the next window for investors to ask Mr.
Ackman for their money back.

Mr. Ackman may be maintaining his optimism, but Valeant's board looks like a
toxic mixture,
Robert Cyran writes in Breakingviews. The company pointed the finger at Howard
B. Schiller, the company's former chief financial officer, for "improper
conduct." Mr. Schiller has refused to quit as a director, so he will be sitting
on the board along with Mr. Ackman and a nominee for ValueAct Capital.

Valeant's failure to file audited financial statements on time may put it in
default and potentially force it to repay slugs of debt. Raising new cash would
be a challenge even without the company's other problems.

Valeant's indebtedness stems from the serial acquisition of sometimes mediocre
assets at inflated prices - if anything, Valeant will have to sell assets to
reduce debt. It is in a fight for survival, Mr. Cyran writes.

ON THE AGENDA  |  The House Financial Services committee will hear testimony
from Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew on the state of the international financial
system at 10 a.m.

MARRIOTT RAISES BID FOR STARWOOD  |  Marriott International sweetened its bid
for Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, but it may not be enough to deter the
Anbang Insurance Group and its co-investors, who swooped in with a bid last
week,
Leslie Picker reports in DealBook.

Under Marriott's new offer, shareholders would receive $21 a share in cash and
0.8 share of Marriott for each share of Starwood. The deal values Starwood at
$79.53 a share, or $13.6 billion, as of the market close on Friday. This
compares with last week's offer of $78 a share, worth about $13.2 billion.

Marriott's proposal may not be on the table for long - analysts say that Anbang
may come back with another offer and that the new bid does not do much to deter
rivals. The breakup fee has increased from $400 million to $450 million, and
Starwood has agreed to reimburse Marriott for its financing-related costs, up to
$18 million.  Morningstar said the Anbang consortium would have to offer around
$86 a share to be competitive with Marriott's latest proposal.

|  Contact amie.tsang@nytimes.com

DEAL NOTES

Andrew S. Grove, Longtime Chief of Intel, Dies at 79  |  He helped lead the
semiconductor revolution, which proved to be as momentous for economic and
social development as hydrocarbon fuels, electricity and telephones were in
earlier eras.
NYT »

Mergers & Acquisitions »

IHS and Markit, Providers of Data and Analytics, Agree to Merge  |  The combined
company, IHS Markit, will provide services to more than 50,000 customers and
will have about $3.3 billion in annual revenue.
NYT »

Bang & Olufsen in Takeover Talks With Chinese Company   |  Sparkle Roll Group of
China, which sells luxury cars and goods,  said it was in talks to acquire Bang
& Olufsen, the Danish maker of high-end hi-fi systems.
bloomberg news

Judge Approves Orange County Register Sale to Digital First  |  A higher bid by
Tribune Publishing for the California newspaper had been blocked by a court
order at the request of the Justice Department.
NYT »

INVESTMENT BANKING »

Analysts Urge Citigroup Split  |  The bank's stock price is being held back by
capital rules, Keefe Bruyette & Woods contends in a new report.
NYT »

HEDGE FUNDS »

No Respite for Yahoo, Battling on 2 Fronts  |  The company is trying both to
quell an activist insurgency and to explore selling itself at the same time.
Either would be difficult alone.
NYT »

VENTURE CAPITAL »

Sequoia Capital Looks to Raise Money for China Funds  |  Sequoia Capital is
looking to raise as much as $1.45 billion for a pair of funds to invest in
Chinese technology start-ups, Bloomberg News reports, citing people familiar
with the matter.
bloomberg news

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

Credit Default Swaps Make Restructuring More Difficult  |  An exchange offer
involving Norske Skog shows the growing difficulty of restructuring distressed
companies and of knowing where bondholders' interests lie, Stephen J. Lubben
writes in the In Debt column.
In Debt »

U.S. Supreme Court Weighs Racketeering Law's Scope in R.J. Reynolds Case  |  The
Supreme Court on Monday wrestled with whether a lawsuit filed by European Union
countries can move forward. The suit accuses the American cigarette maker R.J.
Reynolds of running a global money-laundering scheme involving narcotics
smuggling into Europe.
NYT »

Apple May Be Willing to Risk Contempt Charge  |  A judge can hold Apple in
contempt for refusing to comply with an order to unlock an iPhone, but the
threat may be ineffective.
White Collar Watch »

U.S. Says It May Not Need Apple's Help to Unlock iPhone  |  A court hearing set
for Tuesday was canceled in the Justice Department's bid to gain access to phone
data in the San Bernardino mass shooting inquiry.
NYT » | Breaking Down Apple's iPhone Fight With the U.S. Government 7:19 PM |
Apple's Modest Product Upgrades Take Back Seat to Worries on iPhone Encryption
7:29 PM | White Collar Watch: Apple May Be Willing to Risk Contempt Charge

BP and Statoil Pull Employees From Algeria Gas Fields After Attack  |  An
affiliate of Al Qaeda claimed responsibility for a grenade attack that hit one
of the largest natural gas fields in Algeria.
NYT »

Anthem Sues Express Scripts Over Drug Pricing  |  The health insurer Anthem said
it had sued the pharmacy benefit manager Express Scripts Holding to recover
damages from drug pricing it claims was too high.
NYT »

Affymetrix Bid's China Ties Prompt National Security Talk  |  A San Francisco
congresswoman asked the  Treasury Department to scrutinize Origin Technologies
Corporation's $1.5 billion bid for Affymetrix, citing national security
concerns.
bloomberg news

Bangladesh Says New York Fed Had `Major Lapse' in Cyber Heist  |  Bangladesh's
central bank has suggested that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York had a
"major lapse" in allowing hackers to transfer $101 million in transactions that
it later flagged as suspicious, according to an internal document seen by
Bloomberg.
bloomberg news

1MDB Investigation Focuses on Bond Deals  |  United States authorities are
investigating whether Goldman Sachs misled bondholders when the firm sold
securities issued by 1MDB, a Malaysian government investment fund that is at the
center of a corruption scandal, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing a person
familiar with the matter.
the wall street journal

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 24, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Family Sees a TV Talent Scout Where the Israeli Authorities See a Jihadist Spy

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER and MAJD AL WAHEIDI; Isabel Kershner reported from
Jerusalem, and Majd Al Waheidi from Gaza.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 705 words


JERUSALEM --  The young man was on his way out of Gaza on an innocent-seeming
mission: to scout potential contestants for his embryonic ''Palestinians Got
Talent'' television show and meet the show's West Bank staff in Ramallah. He had
an Israeli permit for the journey.

But the Israeli authorities say the would-be impresario -- Majd Oweida, 22 --
had been doing something sinister: spying for Iranian-backed extremists.

They arrested Mr. Oweida at the Erez checkpoint last month, and on Wednesday
they charged him in an Israeli court with, among other things, hacking into
computers at Israel's international airport and intercepting transmissions from
the country's military drones.

The charge sheet says he was recruited by the Palestinian Islamic Jihad group
about five years ago. He soon became the group's cyber expert, the Israeli
authorities said, and developed software that allowed Islamic Jihad to monitor
road traffic and the movement of security forces in Israel; to view video images
from Israeli air force drones in real time as they flew over Gaza; and to track
flights in and out of Ben Gurion Airport near Tel Aviv and see lists of the
passengers on board.

According to Israel's Shin Bet security agency, Mr. Oweida has confessed to
developing the hacking programs and showing his Islamic Jihad handler how to use
them.

Dawood Shehab, a spokesman for Islamic Jihad in Gaza, said the group knew
nothing about Mr. Oweida or anybody else mentioned in the case.

''I believe there is exaggeration about his arrest,'' Mr. Shehab said on
Wednesday in a telephone interview. ''All I can say is that Israel always uses
cheap techniques and ways to use our young men and pressure them and create
frustration among Gazans.''

Shin Bet, he added, ''wants to prove to their people that they can do something,
and the victim is usually our young people.''

Mr. Oweida's brother, Amjad Oweida, 23, the executive director of ''Palestinians
Got Talent,'' said his family was shocked by the charges and denied that Majd,
the show's general supervisor, had ties to Islamic Jihad or any other
Palestinian faction.

''He is just a talented young man who can use and work on computers in a
brilliant way,'' Amjad Oweida said of his younger brother. ''He cannot hack or
do cyberattacks.'' He added: ''Majd did not work for Islamic Jihad or any other
political party. He used to work for Palestine's Talent Club to help talented
people leave Gaza for TV programs outside.''

According to the charge sheet, Mr. Oweida met his Islamic Jihad handler, Ismail
Dahdouh, by chance sometime in 2011 at Mr. Oweida's father's electrical
appliance store, and told Mr. Dahdouh that he was looking for work. The charge
sheet said Islamic Jihad started Mr. Oweida off as a sound engineer and host at
a radio station affiliated with the group's student union, and was soon asking
him to develop hacking programs as well.

The first cybertarget, the charge sheet said, was a computer system that keeps
track of movement on Israel's roads; hacking that system allowed Islamic Jihad
to spot where in Israel the rockets fired from Gaza had landed. About a year
later it was the drones.

The authorities said Mr. Oweida told Mr. Dahdouh that he needed a frequency
reader, a satellite dish with an Amos Satellite lens and a laptop computer for
the project. Mr. Dahdouh obtained the equipment from the United States and
smuggled it into Gaza through tunnels from Egypt, according to the court
documents. Israel said that the frequency reader stopped being able to penetrate
the drone systems' transmissions sometime in 2014.

The authorities say Mr. Oweida is suspected of having broken into the airport
system in part by stealing the identity of an American man who had access to the
data. Mr. Oweida is also accused of hacking into the Hamas-run Interior Ministry
in Gaza to obtain the Palestinian population registry for Islamic Jihad's use.

Hamas, the Islamic militant group that controls Gaza, said on Wednesday that it
had no information about the case.

Mr. Oweida was traveling with a group of other young Gazans working for the
talent show when he arrived at the Erez checkpoint on Feb. 23. Two Israeli
soldiers arrived and took him into custody.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/24/world/middleeast/family-sees-tv-talent-scout-w
here-israeli-authorities-see-jihadist-spy.html

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 27, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Reconciling Lust With Literary Values

BYLINE: By SYLVIANE GOLD

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS | CONNECTICUT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 847 words


It was, of course, only a matter of time, and that time has arrived: In ''Sex
With Strangers,'' Laura Eason's delightful two-person play at TheaterWorks in
Hartford, a laptop, clunky and antiquated, has gone from being a signifier of
the newest technology to a sight gag. It's one of many sly, charming jokes in
this disarmingly up-to-the-minute examination of a peculiarly modern odd-couple
relationship. But Olivia and Ethan are not as odd as all that, and thanks to the
appealing actors who play them under Rob Ruggiero's unerring direction, Courtney
Rackley and Patrick Ball, you just can't help rooting for them to get together
-- even with all the obstacles Ms. Eason has quite deliberately put in their
way.

For starters, there's that antediluvian laptop, which belongs to Olivia and
unnerves the cyber-trendy Ethan, giving Mr. Ball an opportunity to display his
masterly way with a comic double take. Ethan and Olivia are both writers, but in
the way that Dr. Phil and Jean Piaget are both psychologists. They inhabit
different universes -- Ethan freely admits to her that his work has been
described as ''one step above catalogs and fortune cookies,'' while Olivia's
model is the French novelist Marguerite Duras.

Partly their differences are generational -- Olivia is pushing 40; Ethan has yet
to make the acquaintance of 30. Her first novel, a serious literary effort, was
a critical and commercial disappointment; his books land on the best-seller
lists thanks to his celebrity as the ''sex with strangers'' blogger, regaling
500,000 followers with extensively detailed but not necessarily accurate reports
of his womanizing. He has a movie deal; she doesn't even have an agent. He's a
cavalier sensationalist, inextricably bound to his electronics. She's a
passionate artist, in love with the look, the feel, the smell of her books. She
has to teach in order to make a living; he earns enough from his writing.

But Ethan and Olivia are more than just another I-say-tomayto-you-say-tomahto
mismatch. Ms. Eason gives both of them interesting twists and surprising depths,
which is why the play commands our attention. Despite his Internet bona fides,
Ethan finds his bedmates the old-fashioned way, picking them up in bars rather
than finding them online. ''In person still works if you can talk,'' he tells
Olivia, and boy, can he talk -- or more to the point, boy, can this playwright
write dialogue.

As for Olivia, she's appalled by Ethan's very public gallivanting, but we learn
that she was once free-spirited enough to traipse off to Europe to follow a
lover. And she doesn't hesitate to vouch for the advantages of having sex with
strangers: ''No expectations, no disappointments,'' she says. He counters with
the appeal of the opposite, ''of seeing someone again, if you like them and have
fun.'' Clearly, these two get each other. And Ethan turns out to be a fan of
Olivia's writing, with aspirations to produce a novel himself. ''I won't be the
'sex with strangers' guy forever,'' he says. Nor will Ethan and Olivia be
strangers forever, and Ms. Rackley and Mr. Ball generate plenty of onstage
chemistry as Ethan and Olivia get better acquainted (to put it mildly).

They encounter each other on a snowy March night in a deserted country inn near
Lake Michigan, where both have come to work in solitude. But it's clear from the
get-go that solitude is not going to be the end result here. John Lasiter's
splendid lighting has a romantic softness, and Brian Prather's excellent set is
cleverly furnished with multiple pieces arranged to provide maximum comfort when
Olivia and Ethan -- inevitably -- start tearing off each other's clothes. The
apt, easy-off costumes are by Amy Clark.

Their one-night stand turns into something more, and the second act of ''Sex
With Strangers'' finds them reconnecting in Olivia's book-filled apartment in
Chicago. With his publishing connections and her talent, they consider joining
forces to bring out her next novel, and they discover to their chagrin that
seduction and betrayal are not limited to personal relationships. Professional
decisions can be just as perilous. Ethan and Olivia may joyously overcome their
differences in bed, but when it comes to getting books into the hands of
readers, their conflicting standards can't be so easily put aside.

It's not just that she sees e-books as a kind of swindle and he believes it
doesn't matter if you're reading on paper or on a screen. She's not comfortable
with the Web's fluid, insubstantial anonymity, which feels like freedom to him.
As far as he's concerned, you can publish your own book under a pseudonym, give
yourself a fake bio, write some fake comments, and post the link on Twitter.
''You don't have to wait for anybody's permission any more,'' Ethan tells
Olivia. To him, and by extension to his generation, creating a story and
creating a persona are equivalent acts of imagination.

''Sex With Strangers,'' by Laura Eason, is at TheaterWorks, 233 Pearl Street,
Hartford, through April 17. Information: 860-527-7838 or
theaterworkshartford.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/27/nyregion/in-sex-with-strangers-reconciling-lus
t-with-literary-values.html

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Olivia (Courtney Rackley) and Ethan (Patrick Ball) tackle love
and professional ambition in ''Sex With Strangers.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LANNY
NAGLER)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 27, 2016 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Transcript: Donald Trump Expounds on His Foreign Policy Views

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Politics; Pg.

LENGTH: 14336 words


Over two telephone conversations on Friday, Donald J. Trump, the Republican
presidential candidate, discussed his views on foreign policy with Maggie
Haberman and David E. Sanger of The New York Times. Here is an edited transcript
of their interview (or just the highlights).

HABERMAN: I wanted to ask you about some things that you said in Washington on
Monday, more recently. But you've talked about them a bunch. So, you have said
on several occasions that you want Japan and South Korea to pay more for their
own defense. You've been saying versions of that about Japan for 30 years. Would
you object if they got their own nuclear arsenal, given the threat that they
face from North Korea and China?

TRUMP: Well, you know, at some point, there is going to be a point at which we
just can't do this anymore. And, I know the upsides and the downsides. But right
now we're protecting, we're basically protecting Japan, and we are, every time
North Korea raises its head, you know, we get calls from Japan and we get calls
from everybody else, and ''Do something.'' And there'll be a point at which
we're just not going to be able to do it anymore. Now, does that mean nuclear?
It could mean nuclear. It's a very scary nuclear world. Biggest problem, to me,
in the world, is nuclear, and proliferation. At the same time, you know, we're a
country that doesn't have money. You know, when we did these deals, we were a
rich country. We're not a rich country. We were a rich country with a very
strong military and tremendous capability in so many ways. We're not anymore. We
have a military that's severely depleted. We have nuclear arsenals which are in
very terrible shape. They don't even know if they work. We're not the same
country, Maggie and David, I mean, I think you would both agree.

SANGER: So, just to follow Maggie's thought there, though, the Japanese view has
always been, if the United States, at any point, felt as if it was uncomfortable
defending them, there has always been a segment of Japanese society, and of
Korean society that said, ''Well, maybe we should have our own nuclear
deterrent, because if the U.S. isn't certain, we need to make sure the North
Koreans know that.'' Is that a reasonable position. Do you think at some point
they should have their own arsenal?

TRUMP: Well, it's a position that we have to talk about, and it's a position
that at some point is something that we have to talk about, and if the United
States keeps on its path, its current path of weakness, they're going to want to
have that anyway with or without me discussing it, because I don't think they
feel very secure in what's going on with our country, David. You know, if you
look at how we backed our enemies, it hasn't -- how we backed our allies -- it
hasn't exactly been strong. When you look at various places throughout the
world, it hasn't been very strong. And I just don't think we're viewed the same
way that we were 20 or 25 years ago, or 30 years ago. And, you know, I think
it's a problem. You know, something like that, unless we get very strong, very
powerful and very rich, quickly, I'm sure those things are being discussed over
there anyway without our discussion.

HABERMAN: Will you --

SANGER: And would you have an objection to it?

TRUMP: Um, at some point, we cannot be the policeman of the world. And
unfortunately, we have a nuclear world now. And you have, Pakistan has them. You
have, probably, North Korea has them. I mean, they don't have delivery yet, but
you know, probably, I mean to me, that's a big problem. And, would I rather have
North Korea have them with Japan sitting there having them also? You may very
well be better off if that's the case. In other words, where Japan is defending
itself against North Korea, which is a real problem. You very well may have a
better case right there. We certainly haven't been able to do much with him and
with North Korea. But you may very well have a better case. You know, one of the
things with the, with our Japanese relationship, and I'm a big fan of Japan, by
the way. I have many, many friends there. I do business with Japan. But, that,
if we are attacked, they don't have to do anything. If they're attacked, we have
to go out with full force. You understand. That's a pretty one-sided agreement,
right there. In other words, if we're attacked, they do not have to come to our
defense, if they're attacked, we have to come totally to their defense. And that
is a, that's a real problem.

Nuclear Weapons, Cyberwarfare and Spying on Allies

HABERMAN: Would you, you were just talking about the nuclear world we live in,
and you've said many times, and I've heard you say it throughout the campaign,
that you want the U.S. to be more unpredictable. Would you be willing to have
the U.S. be the first to use nuclear weapons in a confrontation with
adversaries?

TRUMP: An absolute last step. I think it's the biggest, I personally think it's
the biggest problem the world has, nuclear capability. I think it's the single
biggest problem. When people talk global warming, I say the global warming that
we have to be careful of is the nuclear global warming. Single biggest problem
that the world has. Power of weaponry today is beyond anything ever thought of,
or even, you know, it's unthinkable, the power. You look at Hiroshima and you
can multiply that times many, many times, is what you have today. And to me,
it's the single biggest, it's the single biggest problem.

SANGER: You know, we have an alternative these days in a growing cyberarsenal.
You've seen the growing cybercommand and so forth. Could you give us a vision of
whether or not you think that the United States should regularly be using
cyberweapons, perhaps, as an alternative to nuclear? And if so, how would you
either threaten or employ those?

TRUMP: I don't see it as an alternative to nuclear in terms of, in terms of
ultimate power. Look, in the perfect world everybody would agree that nuclear
would, you know, be so destructive, and this was always the theory, or was
certainly the theory of many. That the power is so enormous that nobody would
ever use them. But, as you know, we're dealing with people in the world today
that would use them, O.K.? Possibly numerous people that use them, and use them
without hesitation if they had them. And there's nothing, there's nothing as,
there's nothing as meaningful or as powerful as that, and you know the problem
is, and it used to be, and you would hear this, David, and I would hear it, and
everybody would hear it, and -- I'm not sure I believed it, ever. I talk
sometimes about my uncle from M.I.T., and he would tell me many years ago when
he was up at M.I.T. as a, he was a professor, he was a great guy in many
respects, but a very brilliant guy, and he would tell me many years ago about
the power of weapons someday, that the destructive force of these weapons would
be so massive, that it's going to be a scary world. And, you know, we have been
under the impression that, well we've been, I think it's misguided somewhat,
I've always felt this but that nobody would ever use them because of the power.
And the first one to use them, I think that would be a very bad thing. And I
will tell you, I would very much not want to be the first one to use them, that
I can say.

HABERMAN: O.K.

SANGER: The question was about cyber, how would you envision using cyberweapons?
Cyberweapons in an attack to take out a power grid in a city, so forth.

TRUMP: First off, we're so obsolete in cyber. We're the ones that sort of were
very much involved with the creation, but we're so obsolete, we just seem to be
toyed with by so many different countries, already. And we don't know who's
doing what. We don't know who's got the power, who's got that capability, some
people say it's China, some people say it's Russia. But certainly cyber has to
be a, you know, certainly cyber has to be in our thought process, very strongly
in our thought process. Inconceivable that, inconceivable the power of cyber.
But as you say, you can take out, you can take out, you can make countries
nonfunctioning with a strong use of cyber. I don't think we're there. I don't
think we're as advanced as other countries are, and I think you probably would
agree with that. I don't think we're advanced, I think we're going backwards in
so many different ways. I think we're going backwards with our military. I
certainly don't think we are, we move forward with cyber, but other countries
are moving forward at a much more rapid pace. We are frankly not being led very
well in terms of the protection of this country.

HABERMAN: Mr. Trump, just a quick follow-up on that question. As you know, we
discovered in recent years that the U.S. spies extensively against its allies.
That's what came up with Edward Snowden and his data trove including Israel and
Germany.

TRUMP: Edward Snowden has caused us tremendous problems.

HABERMAN: But would you continue the programs that are in place now, or would
you halt them, in terms of spying against our allies?

SANGER: Like Israel and Germany.

TRUMP: Right. They're spying against us. Edward Snowden has caused us tremendous
problems. Edward Snowden has been, you know, you have the two views on Snowden,
obviously: You have, he's wonderful, and you have he's horrible. I'm in the
horrible category. He's caused us tremendous problems with trust, with
everything about, you know, when they're showing, Merkel's cellphone has been
spied on, and are -- Now, they're doing it to us, and other countries certainly
are doing it to us, and but what I think what he did, I think it was a
tremendous, a tremendous disservice to the United States. I think and I think
it's amazing that we can't get him back.

SANGER: President Obama ordered an end to the spying, to the listening in on
Angela Merkel's cellphone, if that's in fact what we were doing. Was that the
right decision?

TRUMP: Well you see, I don't know that, you know, when I talk about
unpredictability, I'm not sure that we should be talking about me -- On the
assumption that I'm doing well, which I am, and that I may be in that position,
I'm not sure that I would want to be talking about that. You understand what I
mean by that, David. We're so open, we're so, ''Oh I wouldn't do this, I
wouldn't do that, I would do this, I would do that.'' And it's not so much with
Merkel, but it's certainly with other countries. You know, that really, where
there's, where there's a different kind of relationship, and a much worse
relationship than with Germany. So, you know there's so, there's such
predictability with our country. We go and we send 50 soldiers over to the
Middle East and President Obama gets up and announces that we're sending 50
soldiers to the Middle East. Fifty very special soldiers. And they now have a
target on their back, and everything we do, we announce, instead of winning, and
announcing when it's all over. There's such, total predictability of this
country, and it's one of the reasons we do so poorly. You know, I'd rather not
say that. I would like to see what they're doing. Because you know, many
countries, I can't say Germany, but many countries are spying on us. I think
that was a great disservice done by Edward Snowden. That I can tell you.

How to Defeat ISIS

HABERMAN: Mr. Trump, you have talked about your plans to defeat ISIS, and how
you would approach it. Would you be willing to stop buying oil from the Saudis
if they're unwilling to go in and help?

SANGER: On the ground?

TRUMP: Oh yeah, sure. I would do that. The beautiful thing about oil is that,
you know, we're really getting close, because of fracking, and because of new
technology, we're really in a position that we weren't in, you know, years ago,
and the reason we're in the Middle East is for oil. And all of a sudden we're
finding out that there's less reason to be. Now, now, we're in the Middle East
for really defense, because we can't allow them, I mean, look, I was against the
war in Iraq. I thought it would destabilize the Middle East, and it has
destabilized it, it's totally destabilized the Middle East. The way Obama got
out of the war was, you know, disgraceful, and idiotic. When he announced the
date certain, they pulled back, and they said, ''Oh, well.'' As much as they
don't mind dying, they do mind dying. And they pulled back, and then, you know,
it's a, it was a terrible thing the way he announced that, and then he didn't
leave troops behind so that, you know, whatever there was of Iraq, which in my
opinion wasn't very much, because I think that, you know, the government was
totally corrupt, and they put the wrong people in charge, and you know, that in
its own way led to the formation of ISIS, because they weren't given their due.
But, I think that President Obama, the way he got out of that war was
unbelievable. I think Hillary Clinton was catastrophic in those decisions,
having to do with Libya and just about everything else. Every bad decision that
you could make in the Middle East was made. And now if you look at it, if you
would go back 15 years ago, and I'm not saying it was only Obama, It was Obama's
getting out, it was other people's getting in, but you go back 15 years ago, and
I say this, if our presidents would have just gone to the beach and enjoyed the
ocean and the sun, we would've been much better off in the Middle East, than all
of this tremendous death, destruction, and you know, monetary loss, it's just
incredible. 'Cause we're further, we're far worse off today than we were 15
years ago or 10 years ago in the Middle East. Far worse.

SANGER: But I just want to make sure I understand your answer to Maggie's
question. So you said earlier this week that we should use air power but not
send in ground forces. That had to be done by the regional Arab partners. We
assume by that, you mean the Saudis, the U.A.E. and others from whom we might
purchase oil or have alliances. I think Maggie's question, if I understood it
right, was if these countries are unwilling to send in ground troops against
ISIS, and so far they have been, despite President Obama's efforts to get them
in, would you be willing to say, ''We will stop buying oil from you, until you
send ground troops?''

TRUMP: There's two answers to that. The answer is, probably yes, but I would
also say this: We are not being reimbursed for our protection of many of the
countries that you'll be talking about, that, including Saudi Arabia. You know,
Saudi Arabia, for a period of time, now the oil has gone down, but still the
numbers are phenomenal, and the amount of money they have is phenomenal. But we
protect countries, and take tremendous monetary hits on protecting countries.
That would include Saudi Arabia, but it would include many other countries, as
you know. We have, there's a whole big list of them. We lose, everywhere. We
lose monetarily, everywhere. And yet, without us, Saudi Arabia wouldn't exist
for very long. It would be, you know, a catastrophic failure without our
protection. And I'm trying to figure out, why is it that we aren't going in and
saying, at a minimum, at a minimum it's a two-part question, with respect to
Maggie's question. But why aren't we going in and saying, ''At a minimum, I'm
sorry folks, but you have to, under no circumstances can we continue to do
this.'' You know, we needed, we needed oil desperately years ago. Today, because
-- again, because of the new technologies, and because of places that we never
thought had oil, and they do have oil, and there's a glut on the market, there's
a tremendous glut on the market, I mean you have ships out at sea that are
loaded up and they don't even know where to go dump it. But we don't have that
same pressure anymore, at all. And we shouldn't have that for a long period of
time, because there's so many places. I mean, they're closing wells all over the
place. So, I would say this, I would say at a minimum, we have to be reimbursed,
substantially reimbursed, I mean, to a point that's far greater than what we're
being paid right now. Because we're not being reimbursed for the kind of
tremendous service that we're performing by protecting various countries. Now
Saudi Arabia's one of them. I think if Saudi Arabia was without the cloak of
American protection of our country's, of U.S. protection, think of Saudi Arabia.
I don't think it would be around. It would be, whether it was internal or
external, it wouldn't be around for very long. And they're a money machine,
they're a monetary machine, and yet they don't reimburse us the way we should be
reimbursed. So that's a real problem. And frankly, I think it's a real, in terms
of bringing our country back, because our country's a poor country. Our country
is a debtor nation, we're a debtor nation. I mean, we owe trillions of dollars
to people that are buying our bonds, in the form of other countries. You look at
China, where we owe them $1.7 trillion, you have Japan, $1.5 trillion. We're a
debtor nation. We can't be a debtor nation. I don't want to be a debtor nation.
I want it to be the other way. One of the reasons we're a debtor nation, we
spend so much on the military, but the military isn't for us. The military is to
be policeman for other countries. And to watch over other countries. And there
comes a point that, and many of these countries are tremendously rich countries.
Not powerful countries, but -- in some cases they are powerful -- but rich
countries.

SANGER: One more along the lines of your ISIS strategy. You've seen the current
strategy, which is, you've seen Secretary Kerry trying to seek a political
accord between President Assad and the rebel forces, with Assad eventually
leaving. And then the hope is to turn all those forces, including Russia and
Iran, against ISIS. Is that the right way to do it? Do you have an alternative
approach?

TRUMP: Well, I thought the approach of fighting Assad and ISIS simultaneously
was madness, and idiocy. They're fighting each other and yet we're fighting both
of them. You know, we were fighting both of them. I think that our far bigger
problem than Assad is ISIS, I've always felt that. Assad is, you know I'm not
saying Assad is a good man, 'cause he's not, but our far greater problem is not
Assad, it's ISIS.

SANGER: I think President Obama would agree with that.

TRUMP: O.K., well, that's good. But at the same time -- yeah, he would agree
with that, I think to an extent. But I think, you can't be fighting two people
that are fighting each other, and fighting them together. You have to pick one
or the other. And you have to go at --

SANGER: So how would your strategy differ from what he's doing right now?

TRUMP: Well I can only tell you -- I can't tell you, because his strategy, it's
open and it would seem to be fighting ISIS but he's fighting it in such a
limited capacity. I've been saying, take the oil. I've been saying it for years.
Take the oil. They still haven't taken the oil. They still haven't taken it. And
they hardly hit the oil. They hardly make a dent in the oil.

SANGER: The oil that ISIS is pumping.

TRUMP: Yes, the oil that ISIS is pumping, where they're getting tremendous
amounts of revenue. I've said, hit the banking channels. You know, they have
very sophisticated banking channels, which I understand, but I don't think a lot
of people do understand. You know, they're taking in tremendous amounts of money
from banking channels. That, you know, many people in countries that you think
are our allies, are giving ISIS tremendous amounts of money and it's going
through very dark banking channels. And we should have stopped those banking
channels long ago and I think we've done nothing to stop them, and that money is
massive. Massive. It's a massive amount of money. So it's not only from oil,
David, it's from also the bank, the bank. It's through banks. And very
sophisticated channels. They call them the dark channels. Very sophisticated
channels. And money is coming in from people that we think are our allies.

'NATO Is Obsolete'

HABERMAN: Mr. Trump, I also want to go back to something you said earlier this
week about NATO being ineffective. Do you think it's the right institution for
countering terror or do we need a new one and what might that new one look like?

TRUMP: Well I said something a few days ago and I was vastly criticized and I
notice now this morning, people are saying Donald Trump is a genius. Because
what I said -- which of course is always nice to hear, David. But I was asked a
question about NATO, and I've thought this but I have never expressed my opinion
because until recently I've been an entrepreneur, I've been a very successful
entrepreneur as opposed to a politician. And -- I'd love to ask David, Maggie,
if he's a little surprised at how well I've done. You know, we've knocked out a
lot. We're down to the leftovers now, from the way I look at it. I call them the
leftovers.

(Laughter.)

So anyway, but the question was asked of me a few days ago about NATO, and I
said, well, I have two problems with NATO. No. 1, it's obsolete. When NATO was
formed many decades ago we were a different country. There was a different
threat. Soviet Union was, the Soviet Union, not Russia, which was much bigger
than Russia, as you know. And, it was certainly much more powerful than even
today's Russia, although again you go back into the weaponry. But, but -- I
said, I think NATO is obsolete, and I think that -- because I don't think --
right now we don't have somebody looking at terror, and we should be looking at
terror. And you may want to add and subtract from NATO in terms of countries.
But we have to be looking at terror, because terror today is the big threat.
Terror from all different parts. You know in the old days you'd have uniforms
and you'd go to war and you'd see who your enemy was, and today we have no idea
who the enemy is.

SANGER: If you just think about Maggie's question about whether it's the right
institution for this, when you go to NATO these days, in Brussels, not far from
where we've seen -- just miles from where we saw the attacks the other day --

TRUMP: Which is amazing, right? Which is amazing in itself. Yes?

SANGER: What they'll say to you is that Russia is resurgent right now. They are
rebuilding their nuclear arsenal. They're [unintelligible] Baltics. We've got
submarine runs, air runs. Things that have at least echoes of the old Cold War.
The view is that their mission is coming back. Do you agree with that?

TRUMP: I'll tell you the problems I have with NATO. No. 1, we pay far too much.
We are spending -- you know, in fact, they're even making it so the percentages
are greater. NATO is unfair, economically, to us, to the United States. Because
it really helps them more so than the United States, and we pay a
disproportionate share. Now, I'm a person that -- you notice I talk about
economics quite a bit, in these military situations, because it is about
economics, because we don't have money anymore because we've been taking care of
so many people in so many different forms that we don't have money -- and
countries, and countries. So NATO is something that at the time was excellent.
Today, it has to be changed. It has to be changed to include terror. It has to
be changed from the standpoint of cost because the United States bears far too
much of the cost of NATO. And one of the things that I hated seeing is Ukraine.
Now I'm all for Ukraine, I have friends that live in Ukraine, but it didn't seem
to me, when the Ukrainian problem arose, you know, not so long ago, and we were,
and Russia was getting very confrontational, it didn't seem to me like anyone
else cared other than us. And we are the least affected by what happens with
Ukraine because we're the farthest away. But even their neighbors didn't seem to
be talking about it. And, you know, you look at Germany, you look at other
countries, and they didn't seem to be very much involved. It was all about us
and Russia. And I wondered, why is it that countries that are bordering the
Ukraine and near the Ukraine -- why is it that they're not more involved? Why is
it that they are not more involved? Why is it always the United States that gets
right in the middle of things, with something that -- you know, it affects us,
but not nearly as much as it affects other countries. And then I say, and on top
of everything else -- and I think you understand that, David -- because, if you
look back, and if you study your reports and everybody else's reports, how often
do you see other countries saying 'We must stop, we must stop.'' They don't do
it! And, in fact, with the gas, you know, they wanted the oil, they wanted other
things from Russia, and they were just keeping their mouths shut. And here the
United States was going out and, you know, being fairly tough on the Ukraine.
And I said to myself, isn't that interesting? We're fighting for the Ukraine,
but nobody else is fighting for the Ukraine other than the Ukraine itself, of
course, and I said, it doesn't seem fair and it doesn't seem logical.

HABERMAN: Mr. Trump, speaking of --

TRUMP: David, does that make sense to you, by the way?

SANGER: Well, President Obama said the other day in an interview he had that he
thought that Russia, over time, was always going to have more influence over
Ukraine than we would or anyone else would just given both the history and the
geography.

TRUMP: And the location, right. The geography. I would agree with him.

SANGER: And so in the end do you agree that Russia is going to end up dominating
the Ukraine?

TRUMP: Well, unless, unless there is, you know, somewhat of a resurgence frankly
from people that are around it. Or they would ask us for help. But they don't
ask us for help. They're not even asking us for help. They're literally not even
talking about it, and these are the countries that border the Ukraine.

HABERMAN: Mr. Trump --

TRUMP: There doesn't seem to be any great anxiety over the Ukraine by everybody
that should be affected and that's bordering the Ukraine.

SANGER: There are several countries that have joined NATO in recent times --
Estonia, among them, and so forth -- that we are now bound by treaty to defend
if Russia moved in. Would you observe that part of the treaty?

TRUMP: Yeah, I would. It's a treaty, it's there. I mean, we defend everybody.
(Laughs.) We defend everybody. No matter who it is, we defend everybody. We're
defending the world. But we owe, soon, it's soon to be $21 trillion. You know,
it's 19 now but it's soon to be 21 trillion. But we defend everybody. When in
doubt, come to the United States. We'll defend you. In some cases free of
charge. And in all cases for a substantially, you know, greater amount. We spend
a substantially greater amount than what the people are paying. We, we have to
think also in terms -- we have to think about the world, but we also have -- I
mean look at what China's doing in the South China Sea. I mean they are totally
disregarding our country and yet we have made China a rich country because of
our bad trade deals. Our trade deals are so bad. And we have made them -- we
have rebuilt China and yet they will go in the South China Sea and build a
military fortress the likes of which perhaps the world has not seen. Amazing,
actually. They do that, and they do that at will because they have no respect
for our president and they have no respect for our country. Hey folks, I'm going
to have to get off here now. Did you --

Tensions in the South China Sea

HABERMAN: I just had one quick follow-up on what you were saying about the South
China Sea. How would you counter that assertiveness over those islands? Among
other things, it's increasingly valuable real estate strategically. Would you be
willing to build our own islands there?

TRUMP: Well what you have to do -- and you have to speak to Japan and other
countries, because they're affected far greater than we are -- you understand
that -- I mean, they're affected far -- I just think the act is so brazen, and
it's so terrible that they would do that without any consultation, without
anything, and yet they'll sell their products to the United States and rebuild
China, and frankly, even the islands, I mean, you know, they've made so much
economic progress because of the United States. And in the meantime we're
becoming a third-world nation. You look at our airports, you look at our
roadways, you look at our bridges are falling down. They're building bridges all
over the place, ours are falling down. You know, we've rebuilt China. The money
they've drained out of the United States has rebuilt China. And they've done it
through monetary manipulation, by devaluations. And very sophisticated. I mean,
they're grand chess players at devaluation. But they've done it --

SANGER: I think what Maggie was asking was how would you deter their activity.
Right now (Crosstalk) -- But would you claim some of those reef scenarios to try
to build our own military --

TRUMP: Perhaps, but we have great economic -- and people don't understand this
-- but we have tremendous economic power over China. We have tremendous power.
And that's the power of trade. Because they use us as their bank, as their piggy
bank, they take -- but they don't have to pay us back. It's better than a bank
because they take money out but then they don't have to pay us back.

SANGER: So you would cut into trade in return --

TRUMP: No, I would use trade to negotiate.

HABERMAN: Oh, O.K. My last question. Sir, my last --

TRUMP: I would use trade to negotiate. Would I go to war? Look, let me just tell
you. There's a question I wouldn't want to answer. Because I don't want to say I
won't or I will or -- do you understand that, David? That's the problem with our
country. A politician would say, 'Oh I would never go to war,' or they'd say,
'Oh I would go to war.' I don't want to say what I'd do because, again, we need
unpredictability. You know, if I win, I don't want to be in a position where
I've said I would or I wouldn't. I don't want them to know what I'm thinking.
The problem we have is that, maybe because it's a democracy and maybe because we
have to be so open -- maybe because you have to say what you have to say in
order to get elected -- who knows? But I wouldn't want to say. I wouldn't want
them to know what my real thinking is. But I will tell you this. This is the one
aspect I can tell you. I would use trade, absolutely, as a bargaining chip.

His Foreign Policy Team

HABERMAN: Mr. Trump, how did you come to settle on your foreign policy team? I
know that it's still in formation and you've said --

TRUMP: Recommended by people. And we're going to have new people put in. In
fact, we have additional people too. You've got the one list, I think, but we
have -- we actually have -- I only gave certain names.

HABERMAN: But did you meet with them?

TRUMP: We have some others that I really like a lot and we're going to put them
in. Maj. Gen. Gary Harrell. Maj. Gen. Bert Mizuwawa. (Ed. note: It's Mizusawa.)

HABERMAN: These are the additional ones?

TRUMP: Rear Adm. Chuck Kubic. Yeah. He's Navy, retired. Very good, nice,
supposedly.

HABERMAN: Interesting. Interesting.

TRUMP: These are people recommended -- people that I respect recommended them.
People -- I've heard very good things about them. In addition, we're going to be
adding some additional names that I've liked over the years.

HABERMAN: Ah, O.K.

TRUMP: I have very strong -- as you've probably noticed -- I've had very strong
feelings on foreign policy and I've had very strong feelings on defense and
offense. And I've been right about a lot of the things I've been saying. I've
been right about a lot. And The New York Times criticized me very badly with a
very major article when I said Brussels is a hellhole, and I talked about
Brussels in a very negative way because of what they're doing over there. And
yesterday all over Twitter, as you probably saw, everybody said that Trump is
right, The New York Times -- You know, The New York Times really hit me hard on
Brussels when I said recently that it's a hellhole, and waiting to explode. And
I didn't even realize it, and then yesterday all over the place, Twitter was
crazy that Trump was right, again, this time about Brussels.

HABERMAN: You mean after the attacks?

TRUMP: I've been right -- Yeah, after the attack. I've been right about a lot of
different things. So. Anyway. You know, in my book I mention Osama bin Laden,
and I wrote the book in 2000, prior to the World Trade Center coming down and
the reason I did is that I saw this guy and I read about this terrorist who was
a very aggressive, bad dude. And I wrote about it in ''The America We Deserve.''
I wrote about Osama bin Laden. You know, not a lot, but a couple paragraphs --
about Osama bin Laden. Look at him. You better take a look at him. And a year
and a half later the World Trade Center came down. And your friend Joe
Scarborough, interestingly, in one of his -- you know, somebody had mentioned
that, and Joe said, 'No way. There's no way he wrote about it before the fact.'
And they said no, no, and they sent out for the book, and they put it before him
and he said, 'Wow, you're right. Trump wrote about Osama bin Laden before the
World Trade Center came down. That's amazing.' So look, I've said a lot. I don't
get a lot of credit. I do from the people. I don't from a lot of the media. But
that's O.K. I'd rather keep it that way. Hey David, I'd rather have it that way,
I guess, right?

(Laughter.)

The Iran Deal

SANGER: You have told us a lot about what your leverage would be over China in
trade. Tell us on Iran: I know that you've said that you think that the Iran
deal was an extremely bad deal. I'd be interested to know what your goals would
be in renegotiating it. What your leverage would be and what you would
renegotiate, what parts of the agreement.

TRUMP: Sure. It's not just that it's a bad deal, David. It's a deal that
could've been so much better just if they'd walked a couple of times. They
negotiated so badly. They were being mocked, they were being scorned, they were
being harassed, our negotiators, including Kerry, back in Iran, by the various
representatives and the leaders of Iran at the highest level. And they never
walked. They should've walked, doubled up the sanctions, and made a good deal.
Gotten the prisoners out long before, not just after they gave the $150 billion.
They should've never given the money back. There were so many things that were
done, they were so, the negotiation was, and I think deals are fine, I think
they're good, not bad. But, you gotta make good deals, not bad deals. This deal
was a disaster.

SANGER: So, it's a deal you would inherit if you were elected, so what I'm
trying to get at is, what would you insist on. Are the restrictions on nuclear
not long enough, are the missile restrictions not strong enough?

TRUMP: Certainly the deal is not long enough. Because at the end of the deal
they're going to have great nuclear capability. So certainly the deal isn't long
enough. I would never have given them back the $150 billion under any
circumstances. I would've never allowed that to happen. They are, they are now
rich, and did you notice they're buying from everybody but the United States?
They're buying planes, they're buying everything, they're buying from everybody
but the United States. I would never have made the deal.

SANGER: Our law prevents us from selling to them, sir.

TRUMP: Uh, excuse me?

SANGER: Our law prevents us from selling any planes or, we still have sanctions
in the U.S. that would prevent the U.S. from being able to sell that equipment.

TRUMP: So, how stupid is that? We give them the money, and we now say, ''Go buy
Airbus instead of Boeing,'' right? So how stupid is that? In itself, what you
just said, which is correct by the way, but would they now go and buy, you know,
they bought 118 approximately, 118 Airbus planes. They didn't buy Boeing planes,
O.K.? We give them the money, and we say you can't spend it in the United
States, and create wealth and jobs in the United States. And on top of it, they
didn't, they in theory, I guess, cannot do that, you know, based on what I've
understood. They can't do that. It's hard to believe. We gave them $150 billion
and they can't spend it in our country.

SANGER: So you would lift the domestic sanctions so they could buy American
goods?

TRUMP: Well, I wouldn't have given them back the money. So I wouldn't be in that
position. I would never have given them back the -- that would never be a part
of the negotiation. I would have never, ever given it to them, and I would've
made a better deal than they made, without the money, and I would've made a
better deal.

SANGER: And to stop the missile launches they've been doing?

TRUMP: Well, it's ridiculous, I mean, now they're doing missile launches, and
they're buying missiles from Russia, and they're doing things that nobody
thought were, you know, even permissible or in the deal, and they're doing them.

HABERMAN: Mr. Trump, one thing you didn't talk about --

TRUMP: That deal was one of the most incompetent deals of any kind I've ever
seen.

HABERMAN: One thing you talked about at Aipac --

TRUMP: Right, David, so I wouldn't talk in terms of not buying because I
would've never, ever given them the money. Go ahead.

HABERMAN: Sorry, sir, one thing that didn't come up at Aipac, I think in
actually anyone's speeches, but in yours also, I'm curious, in terms of Israel,
and in terms of the peace process, do you think it should result in a two-state
solution, or in a single state?

TRUMP: Well, I think a lot of people are saying it's going to result in a
two-state solution. What I would love to do is to, a lot of people are saying
that. I'm not saying anything. What I'm going to do is, you know, I specifically
don't want to address the issue because I would love to see if a deal could be
made. If a deal could be made. Now, I'm not sure it can be made, there's such
unbelievable hatred, there's such, it's ingrained, it's in the blood, the hatred
and the distrust, and the horror. But I would love to see if a real deal could
be made. Not a deal that you know, lasts for three months, and then everybody
starts shooting again. And a big part of that deal, you know, has to be to end
terror, we have to end terror. But I would say this, in order to negotiate a
deal, I'd want to go in there as evenly as possible and we'll see if we can
negotiate a deal. But I would absolutely give that a very hard try to do. You
know, a lot of people think that's the hardest of all deals to negotiate. A lot
of people think that. So, but I would say that I would have a better chance than
anybody of making a deal. I'll tell you one thing, people that I know from
Israel, many people, many, many people, and almost everybody would love to see a
deal on the side of Israel. Everybody would, now with that being said, most
people don't think a deal can be made. But from the Israeli side, they would
love to see a deal. And I've been a little bit surprised here. Now that I'm
really into it, I've been a little bit surprised to hear that. I would've said,
I would've said that maybe, maybe you know, maybe Israel never really wanted to
make a deal or doesn't really want to make a deal. They really want to make a
deal, they want to make a good deal, they want to make a fair deal, but they do
want to make a deal. And, almost everybody, and I'm talking to people off the
record, and off the record, they really would like to see a deal. I'm not so
sure that the other side can mentally, you know, get their heads around the
deal, because the hatred is so incredible. Folks, I have to go.

Developing Views on Foreign Affairs

Second interview begins:

TRUMP: So go ahead, start off wherever you want.

SANGER: One place that might be a good place to start is where we ended up on
the foreign policy advisers. Because we're trying to figure out how much time
you're cutting out now for foreign policy as you said -- it's not an area you
focused on in your business career as much.

TRUMP: Well I enjoyed it, I enjoyed reading about it. But it wasn't something
that came into play as a business person. But I had an aptitude for it I think,
and I enjoyed reading about and I would read about it.

SANGER: One question we had for you is, first of all, since you enjoyed reading
about it, is there any particular book or set of articles that you found
influential in developing your own foreign policy views?

TRUMP: More than anything else would be various newspapers including your own,
you really get a vast array and, you know a big menu of different people and
different ideas. You know you get a very big array of things from reading the
media, from seeing the media, the papers, including yours. And it's something
that I've always found interesting and I think I've adapted to it pretty well. I
will tell you my whole stance on NATO, David, has been -- I just got back and
I'm watching television and that's all they're talking about. And you know when
I first said it, they sort of were scoffing. And now they're really saying, well
wait, do you know it's really right? And maybe NATO -- you know, it doesn't talk
about terror. Terror is a big thing right now. That wasn't the big thing when it
originated and people are starting to talk about the cost.

SANGER: Well it's geared toward state actors and you're discussing gearing
something toward nonstate actors. Is it possible that we need a new institution
that is not burdened by the military structure of NATO in order to deal with
nonstate actors and terrorists?

TRUMP: I actually think in terms of terror you may be better off with a new
institution, an institution that would be more fairly based, an institution that
would be more fairly taken care of from an economic standpoint. You have many
wealthy states over there that are not going to be there if it's not for us, and
they're not going to be there if it is for terror. Whether it's Saudi Arabia or
others. I actually do think, while I'd like to adapt it, I think you have a
different set of players, frankly. You have more of a Middle Eastern player and
others but you would have in addition, Middle Eastern players.

SANGER: Who are not currently members of NATO. You think the membership of NATO
is not set up right for combating terror.

TRUMP: No, it was set up to talk about the Soviet Union. Now of course the
Soviet Union doesn't exist now it's Russia, which is not the same size, in
theory not the same power, but who knows about that because of weaponry, but
it's not the same size and this was set up for numerous things but for the
Soviet Union. The point is the world is a much different place right now. And
today all you have to do is read and see the world is, the big threat would seem
to be based on terror and based on what's going on in 90 percent, 95 percent of
the horror stories. I think, probably a new institution maybe would be better
for that than using NATO which was not meant for that. And it's become very
bureaucratic, extremely expensive and maybe is not flexible enough to go after
terror. Terror is very much different than what NATO was set up for.

SANGER: And requires a different kind of force.

TRUMP: I think it requires a different flexibility, it requires a different
speed maybe, watching nations or a nation or nations. I think it requires
flexibility and speed.

SANGER: So Maggie and I were at the end of our conversation this morning we were
talking with you a little bit about your foreign policy advisers. There's been a
little bit of a sense that you've had a hard time attracting some of the bigger
names of your party. There were a lot of former deputy secretaries of state, of
defense, others were out there. And the list of advisers you've released so far
has been very strong on having military backgrounds but not many with diplomatic
backgrounds. We were wondering whether or not you are looking for a different
mix or whether you're having trouble attracting some of the big names.

TRUMP: It's interesting, it's not trouble attracting. Many of them that I
actually like a lot and that like me a lot and that want to do 100 percent, many
of them are tied up with contracts working for various networks, you understand?
I mean, I've had some that are -- I currently have some that are thinking about
getting out of their contract 'cause they're so excited about it. I've had a lot
of excitement but there are some that are tied up where they have a contract
with, as an example, they might have a contract with Fox, they may have a
contract with CNN and they can't do it. They have contracts with the various
networks and maybe the media too. I don't know about The Times but it's possible
-- I think less likely, I'm not sure how that structure works with the actual
newspapers. But there are some that I've spoken to that want to do it but
they're tied up with contracts that are with somebody else. There are some that
were with campaigns that have now imploded, and I think they're going to be free
agents very shortly. Hey, a lot of campaigns have imploded in the last couple of
months, which you people perhaps have seen just as vividly as I have. Right? Not
as happily as I have, but nevertheless just as vividly. So you know there are
actually, there are a lot of people available, there are a lot of good people
available. But some of the good people are currently under contract. Does that
make sense to you, David?

SANGER: Yup, Maggie, did you having anything more on that before we wanted to
turn back to Israel?

HABERMAN: Yeah, Mr. Trump, if you could just say how much time are you devoting
a week at this point either to briefings to studying, you know, and if there's
no major change now what it might look like in the future?

TRUMP: I think that you know, what I've really had to do is get through 17,
cause it was really 18 total when we started. So I had to get through 17 people.
I've gotten through almost all of the 17 people. But I'm down to two, from 17 to
two. And you know many of them were front-runners, and they weren't
front-runners for very long. You can go through the list, you know the list as
well as I do. And my primary focus was that.

But during the period I've been, I think very well versed on matters as we're
discussing and many more than just what we're just discussing. Now as it gets --
as we get you know closer to the end of the process it'll take place more and
more. I'm setting up a council, I'm setting up -- and I have other people coming
in, I gave you the other few names I think that we added, we have a few more
coming in. But I have a few more that are going to come in. I just don't want to
I just don't want to mention them unless they give me approval, meaning they're
on board.

And we're going to have a very substantial council of very good people. And some
of them are military. Look, the military is going to be very important because
we have to do something with ISIS, David, and you know we do want the military.
And I think that over the next few weeks I'll be able to give you some more
names. People that are going to be coming in.

SANGER: Do you fear that if you have too many military on your council, they
tend to search for the military solution first instead of the diplomatic or
economic sanction solution first?

TRUMP: Yeah but I'd like to know the military solution and I'm working on the
military solution. Because there's not huge negotiation involved with ISS,
because there's an irrationality that is pretty -- this is not something, 'Oh
let's make a deal.' I don't see deals being made with ISIS. Nobody knows what
ISIS is, nobody knows who is leading it, who is alive, who is not alive, I mean
we're really not talking about too many diplomatic solutions. We're not talking
about diplomatic solutions with ISIS, let me put it that way.

U.S. Influence in East Asia

SANGER: I wasn't referring to that in the ISIS context, I was referring more in
the realm of dealing with our allies, dealing with China, dealing with Japan,
the other places that we've discussed.

TRUMP: So ISIS I think you'd agree with me on that and the rest will come. I
have really strong feelings on China. I like China very much I like Chinese
people. I respect the Chinese leaders, but you know China's been taking
advantage of us for many, many years and we can't allow it to go on. And at the
same time we'll be able to keep a good relationship with China. And same with
Japan and same with -- you have to see the trade imbalance between Japan and the
United States, it's unbelievable. They sell to us and we practically give them
back nothing by comparison. It's a very unfair situation.

SANGER: They also pay more for troop support than any other country in the
world.

TRUMP: They do but still far less than it costs us.

HABERMAN: Would you be willing --

TRUMP: You're right about that David, but it's -- and they do pay somewhat more,
but they pay more because of the tremendous amount of business that they do with
us, uneconomic business from our standpoint.

HABERMAN: Would you be willing to withdraw U.S. forces from places like Japan
and South Korea if they don't increase their contribution significantly?

TRUMP:  Yes, I would. I would not do so happily, but I would be willing to do
it. Not happily. David actually asked me that question before, this morning
before we sort of finalized out. The answer is not happily but the answer is
yes. We cannot afford to be losing vast amounts of billions of dollars on all of
this. We just can't do it anymore. Now there was a time when we could have done
it. When we started doing it. But we can't do it anymore. And I have a feeling
that they'd up the ante very much. I think they would, and if they wouldn't I
would really have to say yes.

SANGER: So we talked a little this morning about Japan and South Korea, whether
or not they would move to an independent nuclear capability. Just last week the
United States removed from Japan, after a long negotiation, many bombs worth,
probably 40 or more bombs worth of plutonium or highly enriched uranium that we
provided them over the years. And that's part of a very bipartisan effort to
keep them from going nuclear. So I was a little surprised this morning when you
said you would be open to them having their own nuclear deterrent. Certainly if
you pull back one of the risks is that they would go nuclear.

TRUMP: You know you're more right except for the fact that you have North Korea
which is acting extremely aggressively, very close to Japan. And had you not had
that, I would have felt much, I would have felt differently. You have North
Korea, and we are very far away and we are protecting a lot of different people
and I don't know that we are necessarily equipped to protect them. And if we
didn't have the North Korea threat, I think I'd feel a lot differently, David.

SANGER: But with the North Korea threat you think maybe Japan does need its own
nuclear...

TRUMP: Well I think maybe it's not so bad to have Japan -- if Japan had that
nuclear threat, I'm not sure that would be a bad thing for us.

SANGER: You mean if Japan had a nuclear weapon it wouldn't be so bad for us?

TRUMP: Well, because of North Korea. Because of North Korea. Because we don't
know what he's going to do. We don't know if he's all bluster or is he a serious
maniac that would be willing to use it. I was talking about before, the
deterrent in some people's minds was that the consequence is so great that
nobody would ever use it. Well that may have been true at one point but you have
many people that would use it right now in this world.

SANGER: For that reason, they may well need their own and not be able to just
depend on us...

TRUMP: I really believe that's true. Especially because of the threat of North
Korea. And they are very aggressive toward Japan. Well I mean look, he's
aggressive toward everybody. Except for China and Iran.

See we should use our economic power to have them disarm -- now then it becomes
different, then it becomes purely economic, but then it becomes different. China
has great power over North Korea even though they don't necessarily say that.
Now, Iran, we had a great opportunity during this negotiation when we gave them
the 150 billion and many other things. Iran is the No. 1 trading partner of
North Korea. Now we could have put something in our agreement that they would
have led the charge if we had people with substance and with brainpower and with
some negotiating ability. But the No. 1 trading partner with North Korea is
Iran. And we did a deal with them, and we just did a deal with them, and we
don't even mention North Korea in the deal. That was a great opportunity to put
another five pages in the deal, or less, and they do have a great influence over
North Korea. Same thing with China, China has great influence over North Korea
but they don't say they do because they're tweaking us. I have this from
Chinese. I have many Chinese friends, I have people of vast wealth, some of the
most important people in China have purchased apartments from me for tens of
millions of dollars and frankly I know them very well. And I ask them about
their relationship to North Korea, these are top people. And they say we have
tremendous power over North Korea. I know they do. I think you know they do.

SANGER: They signed on to the most recent sanctions, more aggressive sanctions
than we thought the Chinese would agree to.

TRUMP: Well that's good, but, I mean I know they did, but I think that they have
power beyond the sanctions.

SANGER: So you would advocate that they have to turn off the oil to North Korea
basically.

TRUMP: So much of their lifeblood comes through China, that's the way it comes
through. They have tremendous power over North Korea, but China doesn't say
that. China says well we'll try. I can see them saying, ''We'll try, we'll
try.'' And I can see them laughing in the room next door when they're together.
So China should be talking to North Korea. But China's tweaking us. China's
toying with us. They are when they're building in the South China Sea. They
should not be doing that but they have no respect for our country and they have
no respect for our president. So, and the other one, and this is an opportunity
passed because why would Iran go back and renegotiate it having to do with North
Korea?But Iran is the No. 1 trading partner, but we should have had something in
that document that was signed having to do with North Korea as the No. 1 trading
partner and as somebody with a certain power because of that. A very substantial
power over North Korea.

SANGER: Mr. Trump with all due respect, I think it's China that's the No. 1
trading partner with North Korea.

TRUMP: I've heard that certainly, but I've also heard from other sources that
it's Iran.

SANGER: Iran is a major arms exchanger with...

TRUMP: Well that is true but I've heard it both ways. They are certainly major
arms exchangers, which in itself is terrible that we would make a deal with
somebody that's a major arms exchanger with North Korea. But had that deal not
been done and they were desperate to do it, and they wanted to do it much more
so than we know in my opinion, meaning Iran wanted to make the deal much more
than we know. We should have backed off that deal, doubled the sanctions and
made a real deal. And part of that deal should have been that Iran would help us
with North Korea. So, the bottom line is, I think that frankly, as long as North
Korea's there, I think that Japan having a capability is something that maybe is
going to happen whether we like it or not.

Boots on the Ground

SANGER: O.K.. We wanted to ask you a little bit, and Maggie maybe you may have
something on this as well, about what standards you would use for using American
troops abroad. You've said you wouldn't want to send them in against ISIS, that
that should be the neighbors. But you did say this morning that if we have a
treaty obligation under NATO to protect the Baltics, you would do that. When you
think of your standards under which you would put American lives...

TRUMP:  Well I think, I do think I'd want to renegotiate some of those treaties.
I think those treaties are very unfair, and they're very one-sided and I do
think that some of those treaties, just like the Iran deal. But I think that
some of those treaties would -- will be -- renegotiated.

SANGER: Such as the U.S.-Japan defense treaty?

TRUMP:  Well, like Japan as an example. I mean that's not a fair deal.

SANGER: Do you have general standards in mind? And, we're trying to understand
your hierarchy of threats.

TRUMP:  Are you talking about for...

SANGER: For when you would commit American troops abroad?

TRUMP:  O.K. You absol -- I know you'll criticize me for this, but you cannot
just have a standard. You cannot just say that we have a blanket standard all
over the world because each instance is totally different, David. I mean, each
instance is so different that you can't have a blanket standard. You may say...
it sounds nice to say, ''I have a blanket standard; here's what it is.'' Number
one is the protection of our country, O.K.? That's always going to be number
one, by far. That's by a factor of a hundred. But you know, then there will be
standards for other places but it won't be a blanket standard.

SANGER: Humanitarian intervention: Are you in favor of that or not?

TRUMP:  Humanitarian? Yes, I would be. You know, to help I would be, depending
on where and who and what. And, you know, again -- generally speaking -- I'd
have to see the country; I'd have to see what's going on in the region and you
just cannot have a blanket. The one blanket you could say is, ''protection of
our country.'' That's the one blanket. After that it depends on the country, the
region, how friendly they've been toward us. You have countries that haven't
been friendly to us that we're protecting. So it's how good they've been toward
us, et cetera, et cetera. So you can't say a blanket. You could say standards
for different areas, different regions, and different countries.

Israel and the Palestinians

HABERMAN: You had said earlier, I think, when you called David that you had
wanted to elaborate on your answer about Israel and a two-state solution. I just
wanted to...

TRUMP:  Well, not elaborate. I just put it off because I was running out of time
and I didn't want to get into it too much because it's actually not that. So
should we talk about Israel for a little while?

SANGER: Sure.

TRUMP:  I have gotten some of the reviews of my speech at Aipac and, really,
they've been very nice. They were very nice. Were you there? Were either of you
at that speech?

HABERMAN: I was.

SANGER: I saw it on TV.

TRUMP:  You saw the response Maggie, then, from the crowd?

HABERMAN: I did. I did.

TRUMP:  Many, many standing ovations and they agreed with what I said. Basically
I support a two-state solution on Israel. But the Palestinian Authority has to
recognize Israel's right to exist as a Jewish state. Have to do that. And they
have to stop the terror, stop the attacks, stop the teaching of hatred, you
know? The children, I sort of talked about it pretty much in the speech, but the
children are aspiring to grow up to be terrorists. They are taught to grow up to
be terrorists. And they have to stop. They have to stop the terror. They have to
stop the stabbings and all of the things going on. And they have to recognize
that Israel's right to exist as a Jewish state. And they have to be able to do
that. And if they can't, you're never going to make a deal. One state, two
states, it doesn't matter: you're never going to be able to make a deal. Because
Israel would have to have that. They have to stop the terror. They have to stop
the teaching of children to aspire to grow up as terrorists, which is a real
problem. So with that you'd go two states, but in order to go there, before you,
you know, prior to getting there, you have to get those basic things done.

Now whether or not the Palestinians can live with that? You would think they
could. It shouldn't be hard except that the ingrained hatred is tremendous.

Countering Extremism

HABERMAN: You had talked, and you've talked a lot recently, about wanting to
expand laws regarding torture.

TRUMP:  Yes.

HABERMAN: Much of that is governed by international law.

TRUMP: Yes.

HABERMAN: How would you go about bringing changes to...?

TRUMP:  O.K., when you see a thing like an attack in Brussels, when you see as
an example they have somebody that they've wanted very much, and they got him
three, four days before Brussels, right? Before the bombing. Had they
immediately subjected him to very serious interrogation -- very, very serious --
you might have stopped the bombing. He knew about the bombing. Just like the
people, just like all of that people in the area where he grew up -- where he
was housed a couple of houses down the road -- they all knew he was there. And
they never turned him in. This is what I'm saying: there's something going on
and it's not good. He was the No. 1 wanted fugitive in the world and he's living
in his neighborhood, and I believe I saw a picture of him shopping in his
neighborhood, right? In a grocery store? You know: shopping! Buying food! I
mean, it's ridiculous they don't turn him in. Just like in California, the two
people, where she probably radicalized him but they don't know, but the two --
the married couple -- that killed the 14 people: they had bombs all over the
floor of their apartment and nobody said anything. And many people saw that
apartment and many people saw bombs. You know, if you walk into an apartment,
Maggie or David, you're going to say, ''Oh, this is a little strange.''

SANGER: So would you invest in programs, or help the Europeans invest in
programs, for counter-radicalization? For finding jobs and so forth for the
refugees who come in so that their temptation to go to become radicalized in
Europe would be lower? In other words do you have a program in mind to stop the
radicalization?

TRUMP: The one thing I'd do, David, is build safe zones in Syria. You know this
whole concept of us accepting, you know, tens of thousands of people, and you
see I was originally right when I said, many more people, you know he was
talking about 10,000, you know it's many more people than 10,000 are coming in.
And will come in.

SANGER: And who would protect those safe zones, you know as soon as you build
one...?

TRUMP: O.K., what I would do is this: We could lead it, but I would get the Gulf
states and others to put up the money. I mean Germany should put up money. Look
what's happened to Germany. Germany's being destroyed and I have friends, I just
left people from Germany and they don't even want to go back. Germany's being
destroyed by Merkel's naiveté or worse. But Germany is a whole different place
and you're going to have a problem in Germany. The German people are not going
to take it. The German people are not going to take what's going on there. You
have people leaving the country, permanently leaving the country. You have
tremendous crime, you have tremendous, you know, you read the same stories that
I do. You write them, actually, it's even better. So you have tremendous
problems over there but I do believe in building a safe zone, a number of safe
zones, in sections of Syria and that when this war, this horrible war, is over
people can go back and rebuild if they want to and I would have the Gulf states
finance it because they have the money and they should finance it. So far,
they've put up very little money and they taken nobody in, essentially nobody
in. I would be very strong with them because they have tremendous, they have
unlimited amounts of money, and I would ask them to finance it. We can lead it
but I don't want to spend the money on it, because we don't have any money. Our
country doesn't have money.

A Strong China

SANGER: I wanted to take you back to something you said on China earlier because
your arguments about China so far have really been, over the years, very much
about how to deal with a strong and rising China. But what we've seen in the
past six months to a year has been a China that is economically weakening. I'm
sure you see it in your own businesses there. So do you have a sense...

TRUMP: Well, they're down to G.D.P. of 7 percent.

SANGER: If you believe their numbers.

TRUMP: Yeah, if we ever hit 7 percent we'd have the most successful country.
We'd be in a boom, the likes of which we've rarely seen before, right?

SANGER: What I'm getting at is a weakening China may have different effects on
the world and on the United States than a strengthening China. Do you fear a
weaker China or a weakening China more than a strong China?

TRUMP: No. I want a strong United States and I hope China does well, but before
I worry about China I have to worry about the United States and we're not doing
well.

SANGER: You've given us a lot of your impressions of Vladimir Putin. We haven't
heard you very much on Xi Jinping.

TRUMP: Well I haven't said anything. By the way, I've been really misquoted.
Vladimir Putin said, ''Donald Trump is brilliant and Donald Trump is a real
leader. And Donald Trump will be the real leader.'' O.K.? I didn't say anything
about him other than to say... I said, we were on ''60 Minutes'' the same night,
remember? That was six months ago. But I never said good, bad, or indifferent. I
said he is a strong leader, he is a strong leader. But I didn't say that, and
I'm not saying that positively or negatively, I'm just saying he's a strong
leader. That's pretty obvious that he's a strong leader.

SANGER: What's your impression of Xi Jinping?

TRUMP: I think they are in a very interesting position. The economy is going to
be, I think actually very strong but the economy, I think they're doing better
than people understand. Nobody has manipulated economic conditions better than
they have. And I think they're doing just fine and I think they will continue to
do just fine. But a lot of it's being taken out of the hide of our country and
we can't allow that to happen. You know if you look at the number of jobs that
we've lost, it's millions of jobs. It's not a little bit, it's millions. And if
you look at our phony numbers of 5 percent unemployment, even opponents would
say that, and would agree to that fact that the jobs that we have are bad jobs.
They're not good jobs, they're bad jobs. We're losing, you know, when you see a
Carrier move into Mexico, those are good jobs. We're losing the good jobs. We
now have a lot of bad jobs, we have a lot of part-time jobs. It's not the same
country. We're losing our companies. I mean when we lose Pfizer to Ireland, when
we lose Ford and Carrier and many others to, Nabisco as an example from Chicago
to Mexico, when we lose all of these companies going to Mexico and to many other
places, we're going to end up having no comp-- we're going to have nothing left.
And it has to be stopped, and it has to be stopped fast and I know how to stop
it. Nobody else, the politicians don't know how to stop it. And besides that the
politicians are all taken care of by the special interests and the lobbyists.
Lobbyists for hire. And somebody will get to them and they will pay them a lot
of money and the politicians will not do what they have to do, which is keep
companies in this country. Those companies that want to leave will get to the
lobbyists and the special interests and those politicians will do what they want
them to do, which is not in the interest of our country. O.K.

Lessons Learned From Iraq

HABERMAN: Mr. Trump, I have heard you say for years now, including at your CPAC
speech back in 2011, ''Take the oil.'' That America should have taken the oil
from Iraq.

TRUMP: I've said it for years.

HABERMAN: Why should the American...?

TRUMP: Originally I didn't say it. Originally I said, ''Don't go into Iraq.''

HABERMAN: Right.

TRUMP: Now, we went in, we destroyed a military base that was equal to, if not
greater than, Iran. And we've destroyed that military, and they were holding
each other off for many, you know for decades, decades, and we destroyed one of
those military powers. And I said don't go in because if you dest -- now, I
didn't know that they didn't have weapons of mass destruction. But on top of
everything else they had no weapons of mass destruction.

HABERMAN: Well, but sir, why should the American approach to rebuilding Iraq, or
other countries where we have shed blood, why should that differ from how we
rebuilt postwar Japan and Germany in the Marshall Plan?

TRUMP: Well it was much different. We rebuild Iraq and it gets blown up. We
build a school? Gets blown up. Build it again? Gets blown up. You know, it's a
mess. I mean you have government that's totally corrupt. The country is totally,
totally corrupt and corruptible. The leader, I mean one of the big decisions
that was made putting the people in charge of Iraq that were in charge of Iraq,
and they were exclusionary. They excluded people that ultimately, you know large
groups of people, that ultimately became ISIS. Became stronger than them. And
the sad thing is, I always talk about the bad deal that we made with Iran as
being one of the worst deals, actually the worst deal is what we've done again
involving Iran, we've destroyed the military capability of Iraq and destroyed
Iraq, period, and Iran is now going to take over Iraq, they've essentially
already done that in my opinion, but they're going to officially take over Iraq
in the very near future.And I mean Iraqis were already reporting to Iran, but
Iran is going to take over Iraq, they've wanted to do it for decades. They're
going to take over Iraq, they're going to take the oil reserves which are the
second biggest in the world, extremely high quality oil under the ground,
extremely high quality, they're going to take all of that over because of us.
Because we destroyed --

SANGER: But Mr. Trump you've argued many times that you don't want to have
ground troops, but''We take the oil'' implies you're going to have to go in
there and take it by force, defend it --

TRUMP: Well what I said is, I said when we left that we should have taken the
oil.

SANGER: If you want to take the oil today you're going to have to go into a
country that is now an ally, Iraq, even if it's a dysfunctional one, put your
troops on the ground.

TRUMP: Yeah, yeah, O.K.. Ready? I said take the oil. I've been saying that for
years. And many very smart scholars and military scholars said that'd be a great
thing to do, but people didn't do it. So, but I have been saying that for years,
I'm glad you know that. At least four or five years. When we left I said take
the oil. We shouldn't have been there, we shouldn't have destroyed the country,
and Saddam Hussein was a bad guy but he was good at one thing: Killing
terrorists. He killed terrorists like nobody, all right? Now it's Harvard of
terrorism. You want to be a terrorist you go to Iraq. But he killed terrorists.
O.K., so we destroyed that. By the way, bad guy, just so you know, officially, I
want to say that, bad guy, but it was a lot better of situation than we have
right now. And he did not knock down the World Trade Center, O.K.? So officially
speaking, he did not, Iraq did not knock down the World Trade center. We went in
there after the World Trade Center, well he didn't knock down the World Trade
Center, so you could say why are we doing this, all right, that was another
thing. I never felt that he did it, and it turned out that he didn't. And it'll
be very interesting when those documents are opened up and released in the
future, I think maybe they should be opened up and released sooner rather than
later.

HABERMAN: You mean the House, the House and Senate report?

TRUMP: Yes, yes, exactly. It'd be very interesting to see because they must
know. They must know, if they're anything, they must know what happened in terms
of who were the people. But it wasn't Iraq, O.K.? You're not going to find that
it was Iraq. So it was very faulty, but I was, I was talking about, I was
talking about taking the oil, now we have a different situation because now we
have to go in again and start fighting, you know, at that time we had it and we
should've kept it. Now I would say knock the hell out of the oil and do it
because it's a primary source of money for ISIS.

SANGER: So in other words you don't want to take the oil right now, you want to
just destroy the oil fields.

TRUMP: Well now, we have to destroy the oil. We should've taken it and we
would've have it. Now we have to destroy the oil. We don't do it, I just can't
believe we don't do it.

SANGER: So you know Mr. Trump, from listening and enjoying these two
conversations we've had today which have been extremely interesting, I've been
trying to sort of fit where your worldview and your philosophy here, your
doctrine fits in with sort of the previous Republican mainlines of inquiry. And
so if you think back to George H. W. Bush, the most recent President Bush's
father, he was an internationalist who was in the realist school, he wanted to
sort of change the foreign policy of other nations but you didn't see him
messing inside those countries and then you had a group of people around --

TRUMP: Well he did the right thing, David, he did the right thing. He went in,
he knocked the hell out of Iraq and then he let it go, O.K.? He didn't go in.
Now I don't know was that Schwarzkopf, was that, was that --

SANGER: It was George W. Bush himself.

TRUMP: Or maybe it was him, but he didn't go in, he didn't get into the
quicksand, right? He didn't get into the quicksand and I mean, history will show
that he was right. And with that Saddam Hussein overplayed his card more than
any human being I think I've ever seen. Instead of saying ''Wow, I got lucky''
that they didn't come in and take this all away from me. He should've just
relaxed a little bit, O.K.? And instead he taunted Bush Sr. He taunted him. And
Bush Jr. loves his father and didn't like what was happening, but I remember
very vividly how Saddam Hussein was taunting, absolutely taunting, saying we
have beaten the Americans, you know, meaning they didn't come in so he would
tell everybody he beat them. Do you remember that, right?

SANGER: I do indeed.

TRUMP: And he was taunting to them, he was saying, and even I used to say
''Wow'' because I knew that we could've gone further. We went in for a short
period of time and just knocked the hell out of them and then went back, sort of
gave them a lesson, but we didn't destroy the country, we didn't destroy the
grid, we didn't, you know, there was something left. There was a lot left. And
instead of just sort of saying he got lucky and to himself, just going about, he
was taunting the Bushes. And Junior said, ''Well I'm not going to take it'' and
he went in. And you know, look that was --

'America First'

SANGER: There was something else to George W. Bush, Bush 43's philosophy. If we
believed that his father was an internationalist, I think it's fair to say, at
least a lot of the people around George W. Bush were transformational, they
actually wanted to change the nature of regime. You heard this in George W.
Bush's second inaugural address.

TRUMP: Yeah.

SANGER: What you are describing to us, I think is something of a third category,
but tell me if I have this right, which is much more of a, if not isolationist,
then at least something of ''America First'' kind of approach, a mistrust of
many foreigners, both our adversaries and some of our allies, a sense that
they've been freeloading off of us for many years.

TRUMP: Correct. O.K.? That's fine.

SANGER: O.K.? Am I describing this correctly here?

TRUMP: I'll tell you -- you're getting close. Not isolationist, I'm not
isolationist, but I am ''America First.'' So I like the expression. I'm
''America First.'' We have been disrespected, mocked, and ripped off for many
many years by people that were smarter, shrewder, tougher. We were the big
bully, but we were not smartly led. And we were the big bully who was -- the big
stupid bully and we were systematically ripped off by everybody. From China to
Japan to South Korea to the Middle East, many states in the Middle East, for
instance, protecting Saudi Arabia and not being properly reimbursed for every
penny that we spend, when they're sitting with trillions of dollars, I mean they
were making a billion dollars a day before the oil went down, now they're still
making a fortune, you know, their oil is very high and very easy to get it, very
inexpensive, but they're still making a lot of money, but they were making a
billion dollars a day and we were paying leases for bases? We're paying leases,
we're paying rent? O.K.? To have bases over there? The whole thing is
preposterous. So we had, so America first, yes, we will not be ripped off
anymore. We're going to be friendly with everybody, but we're not going to be
taken advantage of by anybody. We won't be isolationists -- I don't want to go
there because I don't believe in that. I think we'll be very worldview, but
we're not going to be ripped off anymore by all of these countries. I mean think
of it.We have $21 trillion, essentially, very shortly, we'll be up to $21
trillion in debt. O.K.? A lot of that is just all of these horrible, horrible
decisions. You know, I'll give you another one, I talked about NATO and we fund
disproportionately, the United Nations, we get nothing out of the United Nations
other than good real estate prices. We get nothing out of the United Nations.
They don't respect us, they don't do what we want, and yet we fund them
disproportionately again. Why are we always the ones that funds everybody
disproportionately, you know? So everything is like that. There's nothing that's
not like that. That's why if I win and if I go in, it's always never sounds -- I
have a woman who came up to me, I tell this story, she said ''Mr. Trump, I think
you're great, I think you're going to be a great president, but I don't like
what you say I got to make America rich again.'' But you can't make America
great again unless you make it rich again, in other words, we're a poor nation,
we're a debtor nation, we don't have the money to do, we don't have the money to
fix our military and the reason we don't is because of the fact that because of
all of the things we've been talking about for the last 25 min and other things.

When America Was 'Great'

HABERMAN: Mr. Trump, you -- I was looking back at your speech in New Hampshire
back in 1987 when you were releasing ''The Art of the Deal'' and a lot of your
concerns are very similar to the ones you're voicing now.

TRUMP: Right, even similar countries.

HABERMAN: Right, and I'm just wondering what is the era when you think the
United States last had the right balance, either in terms of defense footprint
or in terms of trade?

TRUMP: Well sometime long before that. Because one of the presidents that I
really liked was Ronald Reagan but I never felt on trade we did great. O.K.? So
it was actually, it would be long before that.

SANGER: So was it Eisenhower, was it Truman, was it F.D.R.?

TRUMP: No if you really look at it, it was the turn of the century, that's when
we were a great, when we were really starting to go robust. But if you look
back, it really was, there was a period of time when we were developing at the
turn of the century which was a pretty wild time for this country and pretty
wild in terms of building that machine, that machine was really based on
entrepreneurship etc, etc. And then I would say, yeah, prior to, I would say
during the 1940s and the late '40s and '50s we started getting, we were not
pushed around, we were respected by everybody, we had just won a war, we were
pretty much doing what we had to do, yeah around that period.

SANGER: So basically Truman, Eisenhower, the beginning of the 1947 national
security reviews, that's the period?

TRUMP: Yes, yes. Because as much as I liked Ronald Reagan, he started Nafta, now
Clinton really was the one that -- Nafta has been a disaster for our country,
O.K., and Clinton is the one as you know that got it done, but it was conceived
even before Clinton, but you could say that maybe those people didn't want done
what was ultimately signed because it was changed a lot by the time it got
finalized. But Nafta has been a disaster for our country.

SANGER: But you think of that period time that you most admire: late '40s, early
'50s, it was also the most terrifying time with the build up of the Cold War,
it's when the Russians got nuclear weapons, we got into an arms race, we were --

TRUMP: But David, a lot of that was just pure technology. The technology was
really coming in at that time. And so a lot of that was just timing of
technology.

SANGER: It was also a period of time when we were threatening to use nuclear
weapons against the North Koreans and the Chinese in the war. Was that approach
you saw of Douglas MacArthur's approach at that time, so forth, is that what
you're admiring?

TRUMP: Well I was a fan as you probably know, I was a fan of Douglas MacArthur.
I was a fan of George Patton. If we had Douglas MacArthur today or if we had
George Patton today and if we had a president that would let them do their thing
you wouldn't have ISIS, O.K.? You wouldn't be talking about ISIS right now, we'd
be talking about something else, but you wouldn't be talking about ISIS right
now. So I was a fan of Douglas MacArthur, I was a fan of -- as generals -- I was
a fan of George Patton. We don't have, we don't have seemingly those people
today, now I know they exist, I know we have some very, I know the Air Force
Academy and West Point and Annapolis, I know that great people come out of those
schools. A lot of times the people that get to the top aren't necessarily those
people anymore because they're politically correct. George Patton was not a
politically correct person.

SANGER: Yeah I think we can all agree on that.

TRUMP: He was a great general and his soldiers would do anything for him.

SANGER: But the other day, I'm sorry, this morning, you suggested to us you
would only use nuclear weapons as a last resort.

TRUMP: Totally last resort.

SANGER: And what did Douglas MacArthur advocate?

TRUMP: I would hate, I would hate --

SANGER: General MacArthur wanted to go use them against the Chinese and the
North Koreans, not as a last resort.

TRUMP: That's right. He did. Yes, well you don't know if he wanted to use them
but he certainly said that at least.

SANGER: He certainly asked Harry Truman if he could.

TRUMP: Yeah, well, O.K.. He certainly talked it and was he doing that to
negotiate, was he doing that to win? Perhaps. Perhaps. Was he doing that for
what reason? I mean, I think he played, he did play the nuclear card but he
didn't use it, he played the nuclear card. He talked the nuclear card, did he do
that to win? Maybe, maybe, you know, maybe that's what got him victory. But in
the meantime he didn't use them. So, you know. So, we need a different mind set.
So you talked about torture before, well what did it say -- well I guess you had
enough and I hope you're going to treat me fairly and if you're not it'll be
forgotten in three or four days and that'll be the story. It is a crazy world
out there, I've never seen anything like it, the volume of press that I'm
getting is just crazy. It's just absolutely crazy, but hopefully you'll treat me
fairly, I do know my subject and I do know that our country cannot continue to
do what it's doing. See, I know many people from China, I know many people from
other countries, I deal at a very high level with people from various countries
because I've become very international. I'm all over the world with deals and
people and they can't believe what their countries get away with. I can tell you
people from China cannot believe what their country's, what their country's
getting away with. At let's say free trade, where, you know, it's free there but
it's not free here. In other words, we try sell -- it's very hard for us to do
business in China, it's very easy for China to do business with us. Plus with us
there's a tremendous tax that we pay when we go into China, where's when China
sells to us there's no tax. I mean, it's a whole double standard, it's so crazy,
and they cannot believe they get away with it, David. They cannot believe they
get away with it. They are shocked, and I'm talking about people at the highest
level, people at -- the richest people, people with great influence over, you
know, together with the leaders and they cannot believe it. Mexico can't believe
what they get away with. When I talked about Mexico and I talked about they will
build a wall, when you look at the trade deficit we have with Mexico it's very
easy, it's a tiny fraction of what the cost of the wall is. The wall is a tiny
fraction of what the cost of the deficit is. When people hear that they say ''Oh
now I get it.'' They don't get it. But Mexico will pay for the wall. But they
can't believe what they get away with. There's such a double standard. With many
countries. It's almost, we do well with almost nobody anymore and a lot of that
is because of politics as we know it, political hacks get appointed to negotiate
with the smartest people in China, when we negotiate deals with China, China is
putting the smartest people in all of China on that negotiation, we're not doing
that. So anyway, I hope you guys are happy.

SANGER: Thank you, you've been very generous with your time.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/27/us/politics/donald-trump-transcript.html

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 28, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Clear Signs on Who Might Be Radicalized

BYLINE: By MATT APUZZO

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1775 words


WASHINGTON --  The brothers who carried out suicide bombings in Brussels last
week had long, violent criminal records and had been regarded internationally as
potential terrorists. But in San Bernardino, Calif., last year, one of the
attackers was a county health inspector who lived a life of apparent suburban
normality.

And then there are the dozens of other young American men and women who have
been arrested over the past year for trying to help the Islamic State. Their
backgrounds are so diverse that they defy a single profile.

What turns people toward violence -- and whether they can be steered away from
it -- are questions that have bedeviled governments around the world for
generations. Those questions have taken on fresh urgency with the rise of the
Islamic State and the string of attacks in Europe and the United States. Despite
millions of dollars of government-sponsored research, and a much-publicized
White House pledge to find answers, there is still nothing close to a consensus
on why someone becomes a terrorist.

''After all this funding and this flurry of publications, with each new
terrorist incident we realize that we are no closer to answering our original
question about what leads people to turn to political violence,'' Marc Sageman,
a psychologist and a longtime government consultant, wrote in the journal
Terrorism and Political Violence in 2014. ''The same worn-out questions are
raised over and over again, and we still have no compelling answers.''

When researchers do come up with possible answers, the government often
disregards them. Not long after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, for instance,
Alan B. Krueger, the Princeton economist, tested the widespread assumption that
poverty was a key factor in the making of a terrorist. Mr. Krueger's analysis of
economic figures, polls, and data on suicide bombers and hate groups found no
link between economic distress and terrorism.

More than a decade later, law enforcement officials and government-funded
community groups still regard money problems as an indicator of radicalization.

When President Obama announced plans in 2011 to prevent homegrown terrorism, the
details were sketchy, but the promise was clear. The White House would provide
warning signs to help parents and community leaders.

''It's going to be communities that recognize abnormal behavior,'' Denis
McDonough, the deputy national security adviser at the time, said. As an
example, he cited truancy, which he said was an indicator of possible gang
activity. ''Truancy is also going to be an early warning sign for violent
extremism,'' he said.

But the years that followed have done little to narrow the list of likely
precursors. Rather, the murky science seems to imply that nearly anyone is a
potential terrorist. Some studies suggest that terrorists are likely to be
educated or extroverted; others say uneducated recluses are at risk. Many
studies seem to warn of the adolescent condition, singling out young, impatient
men with a sense of adventure who are ''struggling to achieve a sense of
selfhood.''

Such generalizations are why civil libertarians see only danger in government
efforts to identify people at risk of committing crimes. Researchers, too, say
they have been frustrated by both the Bush and Obama administrations because of
what they say is a preoccupation with research that can be distilled into simple
checklists, even at the risk of casting unnecessary suspicion on innocent
people.

''They want to be able to do things right now,'' said Clark R. McCauley Jr., a
professor of psychology at Bryn Mawr College who has conducted government-funded
terrorism research for years. ''Anybody who offers them something right now,
like to go around with a checklist -- right now -- is going to have their
attention.

''It's demand driven,'' he continued. ''The people with guns and badges are so
eager to have something. The fact that they could actually do harm? This doesn't
deter them.''

Europe, too, is grappling with these questions, but there is no clear answer.
Hans Bonte, the mayor of the Belgian town of Vilvoorde, attended a White House
summit meeting on radicalization last year and described efforts to stem a
steady tide of angry young men leaving to join the Islamic State. In Britain,
the government encourages or requires people to alert the authorities about
people who could become risks. That has spurred debate abroad, and has raised
questions in the United States about whether the Constitution would allow the
government to keep tabs on lawful political or religious speech.

''I understand, from an American standpoint, that can be troubling,'' said
Lorenzo Vidino, the director of the Program on Extremism at the Center for Cyber
and Homeland Security at George Washington University. ''But the European model,
for most countries, is to intervene early, as soon as you see the first sign of
extremism.''

Researching terrorism is admittedly difficult. It involves tough questions about
who qualifies as a terrorist, or as a rebel or a soldier. Nelson Mandela?
Palestinian suicide bombers? The Taliban of today? The Afghan mujahedeen when
the C.I.A. supported them?

Researchers seldom have access to terrorists, and scientific methods, such as
control groups, are rare. In 2005, Jeff Victoroff, a University of Southern
California psychologist, concluded that the leading terrorism research was
mostly just political theory and anecdotes. ''A lack of systematic scholarly
investigation has left policy makers to design counterterrorism strategies
without the benefit of facts,'' he wrote in The Journal of Conflict Resolution.

When the government does give advice about what to look for, the origin of that
information is often impossible to know. A 2012 National Counterterrorism Center
report, for instance, declared that anxiety, unmet personal needs, frustration
and trauma helped drive radicalization. ''Not all individuals who become
radicalized have unmet personal needs, but those who do are more vulnerable to
radicalization,'' the document said, citing no sources.

Finding terrorism's roots was supposed to help turn people away from violence.
But even when someone comes to the government's attention, there is no policy on
what the response should be. The Obama administration envisions a network of
counselors, religious figures and experts who can step in to help. With rare
exceptions, such a network has not materialized.

The White House recently put the Department of Homeland Security in charge of a
task force to coordinate those efforts, an acknowledgment that the loose
alliance of the past several years had suffered from a lack of goals and
coordination. George Selim, the Homeland Security official leading the effort,
said the administration had never intended to dictate policies. The government,
Mr. Selim said, has successfully started conversations and fostered
relationships between communities and law enforcement groups.

In Minneapolis, one of the pilot cities for the administration's
counter-radicalization efforts, Andrew M. Luger, the United States attorney for
Minnesota, has built relationships with the Somali community. He said that a
prevention program was coming soon, and that interventions were farther off.

''It's taken a lot of time,'' he said. ''We're at a point where a lot of it is
beginning to come to fruition.''

Though the government plays down its use of checklists, the Justice Department
offers grants for the development of ''a rapid assessment'' tool to help the
authorities ''gauge the potential'' for extremism. Last year, the Intercept news
organization revealed a government checklist to score people in terrorism
investigations based on factors, including whether they feel mistreated by the
government, distrust law enforcement or suffer from discrimination.

Mr. McCauley said many of his colleagues and peers conducted smart research and
drew narrow conclusions. The problem, he said, is that studies get the most
attention when they suggest warning signs. Research linking terrorism to
American policies, meanwhile, is ignored.

As a practical matter, scientists note, checklists are mathematically certain to
fail. Even a test with 99 percent accuracy would be wrong far more often than
right. It is a counterintuitive thought, but in a country with a huge population
and a tiny number of terrorists, even a nearly perfect test would flag many more
innocent people than actual terrorists.

In social services, this problem all but disappears. There are few consequences
for seeking help for someone who appears to be suicidal but is not. When the
F.B.I. is the only option, the ramifications can be severe.

''We talk a very good game,'' said John Horgan, a professor at Georgia State
University who has conducted numerous government-funded studies. ''But from the
national security standpoint, we still have a scorecard mentality of early
identifications and sting operations.''

In Montgomery County, Md., a Washington suburb, a Muslim-led interfaith
organization called Worde thinks it may have a solution. Organizers have
provided families and faith leaders with lists of warning signs: depression,
trauma, economic stress and political grievances. Anyone who spots these
indicators signs can call Worde, which will arrange mental health or religious
counseling.

Police officers become involved only when there is a threat of imminent danger,
said Hedieh Mirahmadi, the group's president. Ideally, she said, people get help
without being stigmatized or placed on government watch lists.

The program is unproven; a nearly complete study on its effectiveness gives it
high marks for building community relationships but does not assess whether the
group reduces violent extremism. And while Ms. Mirahmadi said ''nobody would
disagree'' with her warning signs, researchers are far less certain that they
are indicators of potential radicalization. Still, the Obama administration
believes Worde could be a model and has awarded it $500,000 in grants.

Faiza Patel, a lawyer with the Brennan Center for Justice, remains skeptical.
Worde has not released its intervention protocols or its method for assessing
things like political grievances. Ms. Mirahmadi said such tools would be too
easily misunderstood.

But, she said, it is a start. She said her group had counseled about 20 people,
providing help that otherwise did not exist. Whether any of these people would
have become violent, she said, is impossible to know.

Follow The New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/28/world/europe/mystery-about-who-will-become-a-t
errorist-defies-clear-answers.html

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The National Counterterrorism Center in 2005. People arrested
for terrorism-related crimes defy a single profile. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK
WILSON/GETTY IMAGES) (A8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (First Draft)

                             March 28, 2016 Monday

It's a Boy for Ivanka Trump, Donald's Eighth Grandchild

BYLINE: MAGGIE HABERMAN

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 365 words



HIGHLIGHT: Donald J. Trump, the Republican presidential front-runner, became a
grandfather for an eighth time when his daughter, Ivanka, gave birth to her
third child. She and her husband, Jared Kushner, named the boy Theodore James.


Donald J. Trump now has a "Ted" in his life ... a Ted he actually likes.

Mr. Trump, the Republican presidential front-runner, became a grandfather for an
eighth time on Sunday when his daughter, Ivanka, gave birth to her third child.
She and her husband, Jared Kushner, named the boy Theodore. Ms. Trump sent out
the news of the baby's arrival on Twitter late Sunday.

Baby Theodore. My heart is full. xx, Ivanka #gratefulpic.twitter.com/aOux7Nm3BU

- Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) March 28, 2016

In an appearance on "Fox and Friends" on Monday, Mr. Trump joked with the hosts
that he wouldn't get into the "details" of the birth, but pointed out that
Theodore James Kushner had arrived "on Easter, so we have an Easter baby, which
is beautiful," Mr. Trump said.

Ms. Trump, even while many months pregnant, was a frequent presence by her
father's side this year in places like Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina
during voting contests in those states. Mr. Trump mentioned at countless rallies
about how his daughter was about to give birth at any moment, and how great it
would be if it happened in whatever state he was in at that moment. On Monday,
in a speech at the American Israel Public Affairs Conference, Mr. Trump said his
daughter, who converted to Judaism, was about to have a "beautiful Jewish baby."

Mr. Trump, who has been in a fierce battle, which has gotten personal, with
Senator Ted Cruz for the Republican presidential nomination has seven other
grandchildren; Ms. Trump has another son and a daughter, and Donald J. Trump Jr.
has five children.

Ms. Trump was not the only political daughter who's pregnant during the campaign
season. Chelsea Clinton, the daughter of Bill and Hillary Clinton, is pregnant
with her second child. Mrs. Clinton often talks about being a grandmother on the
campaign trail.

Within 24 hours, the Trump Organization scooped up three websites combinations
with the newest Kushner baby's name, according to records from the cyber
forensics company Domain Tools.

Steve Eder contributed reporting.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 29, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump's New World Disorder

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN.

You can follow me on Twitter or join me on Facebook.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 831 words


Goodbye to all that. Now we know that Donald Trump would rip up the post-1945
world order, trash an ''obsolete'' NATO, lean toward a Japan with nukes rather
than the ''one-sided agreement'' that leaves the United States responsible for
Japanese defense, tell Saudi Arabia that it ''wouldn't be around for very long''
without American protection, and generally make clear that ''we cannot be the
policeman of the world.''

So much for Pax Americana; it was a bad deal, you see, and in the Trump universe
the deal is everything. American power and far-flung American garrisons may have
underwritten global security and averted nuclear war for more than seven
decades, but they cannot be sustained by the ''poor country'' the United States
has become. Why? Because, he insists, the whole postwar setup is a scam.

That Trump could be the next president of the United States is no longer a
fanciful notion. Americans don't want business as usual; Trump is not business
as usual. He's ranting and schmoozing his way to the White House as the man who,
through some alchemy, will make an anxious America proud again. The world --
already more combustible than at any time in recent decades -- may be about to
become a much more dangerous place.

Trump, in interviews with my colleagues Maggie Haberman and David Sanger, said:
''We have been disrespected, mocked and ripped off for many, many years by
people that were smarter, shrewder, tougher. We were the big bully, but we were
not smartly led.'' America was ''systematically ripped off by everybody. From
China to Japan to South Korea to the Middle East, many states in the Middle
East, for instance protecting Saudi Arabia and not being properly reimbursed for
every penny that we spend.''

Bottom line of Trump foreign policy: ''We will not be ripped off anymore''
because ''we don't have any money.'' He would like to see the United States
''really starting to go robust,'' as it did around 1900.

A lot of what Trump said was just plain wrong. He declared that he was ''all for
Ukraine, I have friends that live in Ukraine,'' but those friends don't seem to
have explained what's going on. He is irked because countries like Germany
''didn't seem to be very much involved'' when Russia got ''very
confrontational'' (a.k.a. annexed Crimea and started a war in eastern Ukraine),
and so the burden fell on the United States.

In fact, Germany has taken a central role in orchestrating sanctions against
Russia and, unlike the United States, is at the table in the Minsk peace process
for Ukraine. Perhaps it's unsurprising that Trump dismisses Germany's role in
that he believes Europe's most powerful nation by far is ''being destroyed'' by
''tremendous crime'' (presumably on the part of unmentioned Muslim refugees) and
by Chancellor Angela Merkel's ''naïveté or worse'' (presumably in letting said
Syrian refugees in). He also believes that the United States is ''obsolete in
cyber,'' a view Iran would not share, and that ''our country doesn't have
money'' (it does have some).

But that Trump and facts are uneasy partners is already well known. What was not
so apparent before these interviews was how radical a President Trump would be
in dismantling the architecture of postwar stability -- unless, of course, he
changed his mind to demonstrate the unpredictability he prizes.

To say NATO is obsolete -- a view Moscow has been pressing since the end of the
Cold War as a means to get the United States out of Europe -- at a time when
President Vladimir Putin is determined to assert Russian power is dangerous
folly. Ask the Baltic States that have been spared Putin's aggression only
because they are now NATO members. NATO remains the pillar of the trans-Atlantic
cooperation that forged a Europe whole and free from the ruins and divisions of
1945.

To countenance a nuclear-armed Japan at a time when China's rapid rise and
designs in the East China Sea have sharpened tensions between the two countries
is also to play a high-risk game. The presence of the United States as an Asian
power offsetting China's rise and reassuring smaller nations in the hemisphere
is a principal reason that rise has been peaceful.

As for the disintegration of Saudi Arabia, which Trump seems ready to accept if
the Saudis don't step up to the plate financially and militarily, it may well
make Syria look like a playground.

Trump is right about one thing. The world of 2016 is not that of 1945 or 1990.
The United States is relatively weaker, power is shifting, there are pressing
domestic priorities. But his version of ''America First'' -- which interestingly
converges with the views of many on the left who are convinced that the United
States should stop policing the world -- looks like a recipe for cataclysm.

War in Estonia or the East China Sea could end up being a very bad deal indeed,
a real rip-off for all humanity.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/29/opinion/donald-trumps-new-world-disorder.html

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 31, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Campaign Season's Anti-China Tone Is Likely to Cloud Meeting With Obama

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1109 words


WASHINGTON --  President Obama refused to bash China when he ran for the White
House in 2008, which set him apart from other candidates. None of Mr. Obama's
would-be successors are showing similar restraint. Some, like Donald J. Trump,
are bashing Beijing with gleeful abandon.

Those distinctions will probably be on the mind of China's president, Xi
Jinping, when he sits down with Mr. Obama here on Thursday for a one-on-one
meeting during a nuclear security summit meeting that falls in the middle of
America's no-holds-barred political season.

The surge in anti-China sentiment on the campaign trail will cast a shadow over
the Obama-Xi meeting, and it could have ominous consequences for China's
relationship with the United States after Mr. Obama leaves office. Experts on
China said the Chinese were taking the vitriol more seriously than in previous
elections, viewing it as a gauge of American intentions.

''Obama is the best they've got, or are going to get,'' said Minxin Pei,
professor of government at Claremont McKenna College. ''The real surprise is
that he's still holding the line on engagement at a time when the policy is
increasingly hard to defend at home.''

While tarring China is a predictable election-year tactic, and recognized as
such by Chinese officials, experts said there were deeper corrosive forces at
play this year, from distrust of China's trade practices and cyberespionage to a
potential military clash in the South China Sea.

''The Chinese are more worried,'' Mr. Pei said, ''because the anti-China
rhetoric is happening not just in a political context but in the context of a
deteriorating overall relationship in the last two years.''

Mr. Trump, the Republican front-runner, has characterized Chinese leaders as
something close to evil geniuses who manipulate their currency and swindle
Americans out of their money through bad trade deals. He has threatened to
impose a 45 percent tax on Chinese imports, a step that experts said would
ignite a full-blown trade war.

''The greatest debt in the history of the world is what China has done to us,''
Mr. Trump said at a rally in Las Vegas in January. ''They've taken our jobs;
they've taken our money; they've taken everything. They've rebuilt China with
our money.''

Hillary Clinton, the Democratic front-runner, is more measured. But she has
relentlessly criticized China for its cyberattacks, and last September she said
on Twitter that Mr. Xi was ''shameless'' for playing host at a United Nations
meeting on women's rights, at a time when the Chinese government had put several
prominent female activists in jail.

Chinese state news media reacted furiously to Mrs. Clinton's barb, accusing her
of being a ''rabble-rouser,'' guilty of ''ignominious shenanigans.'' The Global
Times, a Chinese state newspaper, said she was imitating Mr. Trump's anti-China
posture in an effort to pander for votes.

The problem for Chinese leaders is that Mrs. Clinton staked out tough positions
on China even before she began her latest presidential campaign. When she was
secretary of state, one of her major diplomatic initiatives was injecting the
United States into the dispute between China and its neighbors over disputed
reefs and shoals in the South China Sea. That issue is expected to figure
prominently in Mr. Obama's talks with Mr. Xi.

For Mr. Obama, it is ironic that he has become a friendly face for Mr. Xi.
Although he invited the Chinese leader to an intimate summit meeting in Southern
California in June 2013, the two got off to a bumpy start, exchanging sharp
words over allegations of China's cyber-hacking and theft of American corporate
secrets.

''For some time, the Chinese view was to look past Obama to the next
president,'' said Cheng Li, an expert on Chinese politics at the Brookings
Institution. ''But then they decided to stop doing that, which was wise.''

In 2014, the two leaders agreed on ambitious targets for reductions in carbon
emissions. That put the relationship on firmer footing, and Mr. Obama invited
Mr. Xi for a state dinner, brushing aside calls from Republican candidates to
cancel the meeting to protest China's cyberespionage and currency manipulation.

On Thursday's visit, China experts said, Mr. Xi is likely to deliver a
reassuring message to Mr. Obama. He will probably repeat his statement from last
fall that China does not intend to militarize the South China Sea. The meeting,
they said, may be as much about sending a signal to the next president as it is
about preserving his ties with the current one.

''Xi's visit is meant to show that China is not an enemy of the U.S.,'' Mr. Li
said. ''But the message also is, 'If you don't cooperate with us, that will be
your problem, not ours.' ''

Harsh words during a presidential campaign can have lingering effects. In 1992,
three years after the Tiananmen Square massacre, Bill Clinton referred to
China's leaders as the ''butchers of Beijing.'' During the 2000 campaign, George
W. Bush said the United States should treat China as a ''strategic competitor''
rather than as a ''strategic partner.'' Just months into his first term, in
April 2001, he found himself dealing with suspicious Chinese officials after a
Navy surveillance plane had a midair collision with a Chinese fighter jet over
Hainan Island.

When Mr. Obama ran for president, his two advisers on China, James Steinberg and
Jeffrey A. Bader, advised him to avoid anti-China comments. Mrs. Clinton, his
Democratic opponent, called on Mr. Bush to boycott the opening ceremony of the
2008 Beijing Olympics to protest China's failure to force Sudan to stop the
killing in Darfur.

But Mr. Obama stopped short of that. ''I'm hesitant to make the Olympics a site
of political protest,'' he said at the time, ''because I think it's partly about
bringing the world together.''

It is not clear, in hindsight, whether Mr. Obama's gingerly approach paid off
with the Chinese. During his first visit to China as president, the Chinese
stage-managed his public appearances, allowed no questions after his joint news
conference with Hu Jintao, then the president, and refused to broadcast his
town-hall-style meeting in Shanghai on state television.

In his second year, Mr. Obama stiffened his approach to Beijing, and by the time
he ran for re-election in 2012, he was announcing a lawsuit against China at the
World Trade Organization for unfairly subsidizing its auto and auto-parts
industries.

''These are subsidies that directly harm working men and women on the assembly
lines in Ohio and Michigan and across the Midwest,'' Mr. Obama said during a
campaign rally, adding, ''We will not let it stand.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/31/world/asia/campaign-seasons-anti-china-tone-is
-likely-to-cloud-meeting-with-obama.html

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 2, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Law Firm to Pursue 'Revenge Porn' Case

BYLINE: By MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 647 words


A big law firm's novel lawsuit filed on behalf of a woman who says she was a
victim of revenge pornography may be complicated by a decision in a related
criminal case.

Federal prosecutors in Los Angeles decided last month to drop a two-year-old
criminal case against the woman's former boyfriend accusing him of posting
sexually explicit images of her online.

The prosecutors asked a federal judge to dismiss the indictment charging David
K. Elam II with stalking, aggravated identity theft and unauthorized access to
the computer of the woman, whom he had met through an online dating service. On
March 21, Judge Manuel L. Real of Federal District Court for the Central
District of California granted the order and dismissed the case against Mr.
Elam.

The end of the criminal case against Mr. Elam, 30, could pose a quandary for
lawyers from the law firm K&L Gates's Cyber Civil Rights Legal Project, which
has been providing legal representation to the woman and others who are say they
are victims of ''revenge porn'' -- a type of online harassment that occurs when
former lovers or hackers post sexually explicit images of people online without
their permission.

A civil case brought on behalf of the woman, identified in court papers as Jane
Doe to protect her privacy, was filed by the K&L Gates clinical program a few
months after the criminal charges were filed against Mr. Elam in 2014.

David Bateman, a partner at K&L Gates, which is based in Pittsburgh and has
offices around the world, said the firm had no plans to drop the lawsuit against
Mr. Elam. The suit seeks money damages, asserting that he infringed on the
woman's right to keep the sexually explicit videos private under federal
copyright law.

He also said that the firm had no second thoughts about taking the woman's case
-- which was one of the first civil lawsuits filed by the program.

''We are not able to comment on any decision by federal prosecutors,'' Mr.
Bateman said in an emailed response. ''However, our civil case will proceed.''

The woman was a law student in California at the time of the incident.
Authorities contend Mr. Elam began to harass her after they broke up.

A representative for Eileen M. Decker, the United States attorney in Los
Angeles, offered no explanation for dropping the case except to say that the
office had decided it could not meet its burden of proof at trial.

Federal authorities began their investigation into Mr. Elam in 2013. Just two
months ago, federal prosecutors notified the court that they intended to
introduce evidence at trial that in 2012, Mr. Elam harassed and stalked another
former girlfriend online.

Lawyers for Mr. Elam did not return requests for comment.

In recent years, federal prosecutors in Los Angeles have earned a reputation for
being particularly aggressive in pursuing cases against both former boyfriends
and hackers selling unauthorized sexually explicit videos to websites. One
notable case was the successful prosecution of Hunter Moore, who ran a
now-defunct website that specialized in posting revenge porn videos that were
stolen from people's computers and posted without their permission.

The decision to drop the charges against Mr. Elam may illustrate the
difficulties in pursuing such cases because they require a jury not to hold the
victim partly responsible for creating the sexually explicit images in the first
place and either sharing them with a former partner or storing them on a
cellphone.

The woman, who was identified in the criminal case only by the initials N.A.,
would have had to testify at trial using her own name.

While prosecutors may have faced hurdles in a criminal trial, a lawsuit has a
lower burden of proof.

This year, a federal appeals court upheld a stay of the civil suit pending the
outcome of the criminal case. Now that the criminal case is over, the stay will
probably be lifted.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/04/02/business/dealbook/in-revenge-porn-case-crimina
l-court-decision-may-affect-lawsuit.html

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elisa J. D'Amico and David Bateman, leaders of K&L Gates's Cyber
Civil Rights Legal Project. Their suit claims damages from sexual images posted
online without the plaintiff's permission. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAKE NAUGHTON FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 2, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Nuclear Job Half Done

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 475 words


As he ended the Nuclear Security Summit on Friday, President Obama could claim
some success in leading the international community to curb the amount of
nuclear materials that could fall into terrorists' hands.

But even with considerable progress, Mr. Obama has not fulfilled his goal of
securing all nuclear materials in four years; some 1,800 metric tons of nuclear
material remain stored in 24 countries, much of it vulnerable to theft.

The summit meeting, which drew more than 50 world leaders to Washington,
produced many practical commitments to secure and eliminate nuclear materials.
Mr. Obama announced that a long-stalled treaty requiring countries to comply
with standards for securing nuclear facilities and nuclear material while in
storage, use or transit would take effect in 30 days.

Japan and the United States said they had completed the transfer of all highly
enriched uranium and separated plutonium from a research project in Tokai Mura,
Japan, to a facility in South Carolina where the materials will be converted to
forms less suitable for use in weapons. South Korea promised to strengthen
nuclear detection at its ports, Kazakhstan said it would strengthen its export
control laws and Britain pledged to lead a new cyber security initiative in
response to growing concerns that a cyberattack could be made on nuclear plants.

Despite serious tensions with Washington on many other issues, China's
president, Xi Jinping, promised to convert some of China's nuclear reactors, as
well as reactors supplied to Ghana and Nigeria, to low-enriched uranium, which
is less suitable for weapons use. The United States also announced plans to look
into using low-enriched uranium rather than highly enriched uranium in its naval
reactors.

President Vladimir Putin's refusal to attend the summit meeting, however, was a
reminder of how troubled ties with Russia are stymieing Mr. Obama's ambitious
pledge in 2009 to seek a world without nuclear weapons. The two countries still
deploy more than 1,800 strategic warheads each.

In 2013, Mr. Obama said America's arsenal could be reduced by one-third. Even
so, he has supported a $1 trillion plan to replace the nuclear arsenal,
including bombers, missiles and submarines. Russia is also modernizing its
arsenal, while Pakistan, India and China are expanding theirs. Meanwhile, North
Korea, despite tough sanctions, is adding to its cache of nuclear weapons and
the missiles needed to launch them.

The nuclear security summit meetings have been a useful means of focusing
attention on nuclear dangers and persuading countries to be more security
conscious. It will be up to the next American president to continue this effort
and work to prevent another nuclear arms race.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/04/02/opinion/a-nuclear-job-half-done.html

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                             April 7, 2016 Thursday

Word of the Day + Quiz | summation

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 213 words



HIGHLIGHT: This word has appeared in 56 New York Times articles in the past
year.


summation  \([#x2cc])s[#x259]-[#x2c8]ma-sh[#x259]n\  noun

1. the arithmetic operation of summing; calculating the sum of two or more
numbers
2. the final aggregate
3. a concluding summary (as in presenting a case before a law court)
4. (physiology) the process whereby multiple stimuli can produce a response (in
a muscle or nerve or other part) that one stimulus alone does not produce


The word summation has appeared in 56 New York Times articles in the past year,
including on March 1 in the book review "[#x200a]'Dark Territory: The Secret
History of Cyber War,' by Fred Kaplan" by P.[#x200a]W. Singer:

"If history were taught in the form of stories, it would never be forgotten,"
Rudyard Kipling said. "Dark Territory" takes this approach in trying to tell
what it calls in its subtitle "The Secret History of Cyber War."

... There are, however, two problems with this history-by-story approach. The
first is that the anecdotes and characters often come and go too fast. Many last
a mere paragraph or two, never to be brought back. The same flaw weakens the
overall book, which lacks summation or closure.

Think you know "summation"? Quiz yourself:

The Word of the Day and the quiz question have been provided by Vocabulary.com.
Learn more and see usage examples across a range of subjects in the
Vocabulary.com Dictionary.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 8, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kerry Confronts Concerns of Arab States After Iran Nuclear Deal

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1143 words


MANAMA, Bahrain -- A year after he struck the outlines of a nuclear deal with
Iran, Secretary of State John Kerry finds himself confronting a new challenge
from Tehran: While it is observing the nuclear agreement to the letter, its
missile launches, arms shipments to Yemen and involvement in Syria have, if
anything, accelerated.

Mr. Kerry arrived here for a meeting of the Arab states this week with the
objective of reassuring them with an array of plans for new missile and
cyberdefenses. Instead, he found himself disputing the argument of one leading
diplomat from the United Arab Emirates that Tehran today is ''as dangerous as
ever.''

Without nuclear fuel or the ability to produce more, Mr. Kerry argued, Iran is
far less of a threat than it was, adding that ''the crisis was the potential of
a nuclear weapon.''

But his hosts at a meeting of the Gulf Cooperation Council echoed the concern
here on Thursday that, even with the nuclear threat off the table, the Islamic
Revolutionary Guards Corps seemed to be active everywhere.

''We are noticing two things that we kind of have expected,'' Bahrain's foreign
minister, Sheikh Khalid bin Ahmed al-Khalifa, said at a joint news conference
with Mr. Kerry. ''The missile program is moving forward with full support from
the top of the leadership of the Islamic Republic, and we are seeing the
hegemonic interventions'' by Tehran ''continuing unabated.''

Mr. Kerry is fully acknowledging those facts. On Thursday morning, touring the
sprawling naval base of the United States Fifth Fleet here, he was briefed on
four interceptions in recent months of Iranian shipments of small arms headed to
Yemen.

''No one made a pretense that other challenges we knew existed were suddenly
going to be wiped away,'' he said about the aftermath of the nuclear agreement.
But there was a hope that over the long term Iran would change its fundamental
behavior in the Middle East -- an underlying bet behind the administration's
decision to seek the nuclear accord -- and a year later Mr. Kerry is conceding
that at best an argument rages inside Iran about changing course.

''Clearly, there is a difference of opinion within Iran itself,'' he said.

Hours before leaving New York on Tuesday, Mr. Kerry noted that Iran's supreme
leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, recently denounced a former president, Ayatollah
Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, who had argued for engaging in more dialogue and
less missile manufacturing.

''He was rebuked publicly by the supreme leader, who said, 'No, it's missiles,
not dialogue,' '' Mr. Kerry said on MSNBC's ''Morning Joe,'' shaking his head.

That reality has forced Mr. Kerry to make a complex argument here to the
ministers of the Gulf Cooperation Council, before a visit by President Obama to
Saudi Arabia this month.

Mr. Kerry repeated Thursday that the United States would continue to lift the
economic sanctions against Iran that it agreed to as part of the nuclear accord,
even while imposing new ones to counter Tehran's missile launches, an effort now
underway in the United Nations Security Council.

Diplomats say it is doubtful the United States will win that argument in the
Security Council. Russia has already noted that while the missile launches may
violate the spirit of Resolution 2231, passed after the Iran deal, they are
still allowed within the strict meaning of its words.

Indeed, the older resolution, which Tehran also routinely ignored, stated that
''Iran shall not undertake any activity related to ballistic missiles.'' But the
new resolution -- the wording of which was negotiated in Vienna in July, just as
the final nuclear accord was taking place -- is significantly weaker. It ''calls
upon Iran not to undertake any activity related to ballistic missiles designed
to be capable of delivering nuclear weapons.''

The Iranians argue that the language is nonbinding. And increasingly they are
making the case that they are not seeing the benefits of sanctions relief: While
their oil sales are up, they have not gained the access to global financial
markets that had been held out as a reward for completing the deal.

But lurking beneath the details of missile launches is a more fundamental set of
frustrations between Washington and its Arab neighbors, edging into distrust.
The Saudis appeared somewhat shocked to read, in Jeffrey Goldberg's series of
interviews in The Atlantic, that Mr. Obama referred to them as ''free riders'';
while it was hardly a new sentiment, even Mr. Kerry's staff members winced to
read it coming from the president.

Mr. Obama went on to say that the Saudis, and by extension their smaller Sunni
Arab neighbors, needed to ''find an effective way to share the neighborhood and
institute some sort of cold peace.'' He rejected the idea that the United States
would constantly side with the Arab states, noting that ''would mean that we
have to start coming in and using our military power to settle scores -- and
that would be in the interest neither of the United States nor of the Middle
East.''

Donald J. Trump, the Republican front-runner in the presidential race, has gone
considerably further, arguing in an interview with The New York Times that he
would boycott Saudi oil if the country did not contribute more to fighting the
Islamic State. Arab diplomats gathered here said they understood the difference
between campaign talk and policy, but added that Mr. Trump's remarks still made
them queasy about the future of the security relationship.

Nonetheless, evidence is scarce that the Arab states represented here are
rushing to deal with their own defensive shortcomings. In a background briefing
for reporters before Mr. Kerry's trip, a senior State Department official, who
was granted anonymity under the rules of the briefing, acknowledged that for all
the talk of building a regional missile defense system, there is still no
agreed-upon ''architecture,'' meaning where radars and missile batteries would
be placed.

Similarly, while there are bilateral discussions about cyberdefenses, there is
no overall strategy about deterring Iranian cyberattacks. In testimony this week
to the Senate Armed Services Committee, Adm. Michael S. Rogers, the head of
United States Cyber Command, noted that Iranian cyberattacks on the United
States had diminished since the nuclear deal was signed, but suggested that
regular attacks by Iran continued in the region.

Mr. Kerry has been measured in his critiques of Iran, noting Thursday that it
had ''helped on a few things,'' including getting an agreement for a cessation
of hostilities in Syria. But he cited the interceptions by British, French and
American ships of arms headed to Yemen, and said ''it is not constructive to be
sending dhows across the Gulf loaded with weapons that are only going to add
fuel to the fire of a war we are busy trying to end.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/04/08/world/middleeast/year-after-iran-nuclear-deal-
kerry-confronts-concerns-of-arab-states.html

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State John Kerry at a meeting of the Gulf
Cooperation Council on Thursday in Manama, Bahrain. (POOL PHOTO BY JONATHAN
ERNST)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       April 16, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

U.S. Plans to Step Up Military Campaign Against ISIS

BYLINE: MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: WORLD; middleeast

LENGTH: 869 words



HIGHLIGHT: The administration is considering expanding its involvement in Iraq
and Syria, and may announce its new plans in the next several days.


ABU DHABI, United Arab Emirates - The Obama administration is preparing to
broaden its military campaign against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria by
increasing the number of Special Operations forces who advise Syrian rebels, and
it is also considering the addition of Army attack helicopters to the fight
against militants in Iraq.

The goal would be to accelerate what United States officials said on Saturday
was momentum behind Iraqi security forces and American-backed rebels in Syria
fighting the terrorist organization.

Inside Syria, the administration is prepared to add dozens of Special Operations
forces to the 50 who now advise and assist Syrian rebels fighting the Islamic
State, say three Defense Department and military officials. The additional
trainers, who could total as many as 200, would be able to expand their
instruction to Syrian Arab fighters, who are likely to play a pivotal role in
capturing Raqqa, the Islamic State's de facto capital in Syria, the officials
said.

The administration's plans for Iraq are more complicated.

Pentagon officials would like to increase efforts to advise and train Iraqi
security forces for the anticipated assault on Mosul, Iraq's second largest city
and the Islamic State's main stronghold in the country. The plan calls for
shifting trainers who are already in the country to positions closer to Mosul,
the officials said. They would also like to deploy Apache helicopter gunships -
which are already in Iraq, but used only to protect American personnel - and
order them to participate in the battle for Mosul.

But the government of Iraq's prime minister, Haider al-Abadi, has been battling
internal political turmoil. His challenges include political opponents, rampant
corruption and an economy weakened by low oil prices.

The military options under consideration - which could be announced in the next
several days - were described by five Defense Department and military officials
who spoke on the condition of anonymity because final decisions are pending in
Washington and Baghdad. Administration officials said on Saturday that
announcing or even proposing increased American assistance is a delicate
diplomatic task that could further imperil Mr. Abadi's position.

Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter made clear on Saturday that the
administration will increase its military efforts to defeat the Islamic State,
also known as ISIS or ISIL, but he did not discuss specifics.

"You should expect us, to see us, doing more," he said at a news conference at
the Al Dhafra air base as he opened travels in the Middle East. "It will be
consistent with the same approach, but it'll be across all the domains, right up
to cyber."

Mr. Carter described the administration's approach as one that will use members
of the American armed services to help accelerate the military campaign against
the Islamic State, but will not replace Iraqi security forces or Syrian rebels.

There are roughly 5,000 American service members in Iraq, according to current
Pentagon estimates, but the number often varies, sometimes daily, by hundreds.

Mr. Carter's comments come at a time when Iraqi militias and military forces
have been making notable progress on the battlefield against the Islamic State,
including seizing parts of Hit, a city in Anbar Province, this month.

Last Wednesday, Col. Steven H. Warren, the military spokesman in Iraq, said that
the initial phase of the American-led campaign against the Islamic State, with
the intent of degrading or weakening the fighters, was complete, and that allied
forces were in the second phase of the operation.

"During this phase, we will enable our partners to dismantle the enemy, fragment
his forces, isolate his centers of gravity and liberate the terrain he holds,"
he said.

But even as the campaign against the Islamic State is showing gains in Iraq and
Syria, the group's franchises in places like Libya, as well as its external
operations in Europe, are increasingly lethal.

On Saturday, Mr. Carter met with American service members, including pilots, who
are stationed at the Al Dhafra air base and are part of the air campaign over
Iraq and Syria. He said that in the coming days he would be meeting with
American commanders leading the efforts to defeat the Islamic State.

"We continue to look for, and identify ways of accelerating that, and as we find
those we will do them," Mr. Carter said, adding that the administration would
seek the approval of Iraqi government there.

Mr. Carter said that gaining the support of President Obama to do more in Iraq
has not been an obstacle.

"We've gotten approval from the White House every time the chairman and I have
gone to ask for something that we've needed to accelerate going way back to last
year," Mr. Carter said, referring to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
Gen. Joseph F. Dunford, Jr., who will also be traveling in the region in the
coming days. "So that isn't really the issue for us, the issue for us is yet
identifying more ways to accelerate the campaign."

Michael S. Schmidt reported from Abu Dhabi, and Eric Schmitt from Washington.

Related Articles


     ·    Obama Reports Gains, and 'Momentum,' Against ISIS
     ·    ISIS Expands Reach Despite Military and Financial Setbacks


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 17, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Poised to Broaden Military Campaign Against ISIS in Iraq and Syria

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and ERIC SCHMITT; Michael S. Schmidt reported from
Abu Dhabi, and Eric Schmitt from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 844 words


ABU DHABI, United Arab Emirates -- The Obama administration is preparing to
broaden its military campaign against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria by
increasing the number of Special Operations forces who advise Syrian rebels, and
it is also considering the addition of Army attack helicopters to the fight
against militants in Iraq.

The goal would be to accelerate what United States officials said on Saturday
was momentum behind Iraqi security forces and American-backed rebels in Syria
fighting the terrorist organization.

Inside Syria, the administration is prepared to add dozens of Special Operations
forces to the 50 who now advise and assist Syrian rebels fighting the Islamic
State, say three Defense Department and military officials. The additional
trainers, who could total as many as 200, would be able to expand their
instruction to Syrian Arab fighters, who are likely to play a pivotal role in
capturing Raqqa, the Islamic State's de facto capital in Syria, the officials
said.

The administration's plans for Iraq are more complicated.

Pentagon officials would like to increase efforts to advise and train Iraqi
security forces for the anticipated assault on Mosul, Iraq's second largest city
and the Islamic State's main stronghold in the country. The plan calls for
shifting trainers who are already in the country to positions closer to Mosul,
the officials said. They would also like to deploy Apache helicopter gunships --
which are already in Iraq, but used only to protect American personnel -- and
order them to participate in the battle for Mosul.

But the government of Iraq's prime minister, Haider al-Abadi, has been battling
internal political turmoil. His challenges include political opponents, rampant
corruption and an economy weakened by low oil prices.

The military options under consideration -- which could be announced in the next
several days -- were described by five Defense Department and military officials
who spoke on the condition of anonymity because final decisions are pending in
Washington and Baghdad. Administration officials said on Saturday that
announcing or even proposing increased American assistance is a delicate
diplomatic task that could further imperil Mr. Abadi's position.

Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter made clear on Saturday that the
administration will increase its military efforts to defeat the Islamic State,
also known as ISIS or ISIL, but he did not discuss specifics.

''You should expect us, to see us, doing more,'' he said at a news conference at
the Al Dhafra air base as he opened travels in the Middle East. ''It will be
consistent with the same approach, but it'll be across all the domains, right up
to cyber.''

Mr. Carter described the administration's approach as one that will use members
of the American armed services to help accelerate the military campaign against
the Islamic State, but will not replace Iraqi security forces or Syrian rebels.

There are roughly 5,000 American service members in Iraq, according to current
Pentagon estimates, but the number often varies, sometimes daily, by hundreds.

Mr. Carter's comments come at a time when Iraqi militias and military forces
have been making notable progress on the battlefield against the Islamic State,
including seizing parts of Hit, a city in Anbar Province, this month.

Last Wednesday, Col. Steven H. Warren, the military spokesman in Iraq, said that
the initial phase of the American-led campaign against the Islamic State, with
the intent of degrading or weakening the fighters, was complete, and that allied
forces were in the second phase of the operation.

''During this phase, we will enable our partners to dismantle the enemy,
fragment his forces, isolate his centers of gravity and liberate the terrain he
holds,'' he said.

But even as the campaign against the Islamic State is showing gains in Iraq and
Syria, the group's franchises in places like Libya, as well as its external
operations in Europe, are increasingly lethal.

On Saturday, Mr. Carter met with American service members, including pilots, who
are stationed at the Al Dhafra air base and are part of the air campaign over
Iraq and Syria. He said that in the coming days he would be meeting with
American commanders leading the efforts to defeat the Islamic State.

''We continue to look for, and identify ways of accelerating that, and as we
find those we will do them,'' Mr. Carter said, adding that the administration
would seek the approval of Iraqi government there.

Mr. Carter said that gaining the support of President Obama to do more in Iraq
has not been an obstacle.

''We've gotten approval from the White House every time the chairman and I have
gone to ask for something that we've needed to accelerate going way back to last
year,'' Mr. Carter said, referring to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
Gen. Joseph F. Dunford, Jr., who will also be traveling in the region in the
coming days. ''So that isn't really the issue for us, the issue for us is yet
identifying more ways to accelerate the campaign.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/04/17/world/middleeast/us-plans-to-step-upmilitary-c
ampaign-against-isis.html

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 23, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Removing Roadblocks to Voting

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 813 words


To the Editor:

''Why Americans Can't Vote'' (editorial, April 17) lays bare the problems for
many potential voters across the country. Action is clearly needed on the
federal level to reinstate and strengthen the Voting Rights Act, eliminate
discriminatory ID laws and mandate improvements like automatic registration for
citizens who apply for programs run by federal agencies and online registration
for national elections.

Unfortunately, under federalism much of election oversight has devolved to the
states. Leaders like Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo have the opportunity and
responsibility to do a better job pressing for reforms and ending
disenfranchising statutes -- like New York's inane rules for changing party
enrollment. That process can have some voters waiting 22 months after changing
their party to vote in a primary election.

The 1989 book ''Why Americans Don't Vote,'' by Frances Fox Piven, showed that
historically many registration laws were designed as barriers to the ballot. In
many ways, little has changed. The fact that Jim Crow is alive and well across
the country cries out for action at the national and state level.

NEAL ROSENSTEIN

New York

The writer is government reform coordinator for the New York Public Interest
Research Group.

To the Editor:

As your editorial notes, voting is far too complicated and inconvenient in many
states. From restrictive photo ID laws, to unnecessary proof of citizenship
requirements, to cuts on early voting and confusing partisan primary rules, we
are seeing a coordinated effort to make access to the ballot box more difficult.
However, voters should not feel paralyzed by these efforts as there are
resources to help voters navigate the process.

The nonpartisan Election Protection Coalition -- led by the Lawyers' Committee
for Civil Rights Under Law -- brings organizations together to field and
overcome voting problems. We troubleshoot problems like ballot shortages and
provide information to voters regarding eligibility.

Voters who have questions or encounter problems can take advantage of our
866-OUR-VOTE (866-687-8683) hotline. So far we've received more than 11,000
calls this election cycle and have worked to lift voting barriers.

Every eligible voter should be able to cast a ballot that counts -- regardless
of party affiliation.

CHRIS MELODY FIELDS

Washington

The writer is manager of legal mobilization and strategic campaigns for the
Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law and co-leader of Election
Protection.

To the Editor:

Your editorial correctly highlights how antiquated our voting systems are.
However, optical scan paper balloting is no solution to election dysfunction. In
fact, it is often the cause.

Most New Yorkers remember lever voting machines. Discontinued by 2010, after
decades of reliable service, they were replaced statewide by paper ballots. In
recent years long lines, a previously rare occurrence, have become common.
Jammed scanning machines routinely cause chaos.

A reliance on paper has brought similar problems to other states. In 2012, we
saw seven-hour lines in Florida, causing an estimated 200,000 people to give up
and not vote at all. An alternative to chaos is modernization. The Utah G.O.P.
included an option to vote online in its March 22 presidential caucus, which
increased participation dramatically, while producing secure and reliable
election results.

If Americans truly want to increase turnout, we must stop relying on paper
ballots.

ROB WEBER

Kinderhook, N.Y.

The writer is publisher of the online voting advocacy blog Cyber the Vote.

To the Editor:

Your editorial advocates spending $1 billion or more to replace our outdated
electronic voting machines. No! They should all be scrapped and replaced with
universal hand-counted paper ballots. These work just fine in Germany, Ireland,
Romania, Canada and Japan.

We also need universal automatic voter registration when a citizen turns 18. We
need a four-day national holiday for voting, so all citizens can do so without
missing work. Maybe then we'll have a system befitting the world's oldest
democracy.

HARVEY WASSERMAN

Bexley, Ohio

The writer is co-author of ''What Happened in Ohio: A Documentary Record of
Theft and Fraud in the 2004 Election.''

To the Editor:

Looking to mitigate obstacles to voting? How about an envelope and a stamp?

In a few states, officials have recognized that taking time off from the job,
going to a polling place and suffering a sometimes long wait discourage voting.
In states like Oregon, legislatures have turned to vote by mail, which has
reduced election costs, increased voter participation and produced no
appreciable increase in voter fraud.

Diminishing interest in voting is a significant threat to our democracy. Why
make participation needlessly -- in some cases prohibitively -- painful?

STEVE JENNING

Alexandria, Va.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/04/23/opinion/removing-roadblocks-to-voting.html

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 25, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Unleashes Digital Arsenal in War With ISIS

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1500 words


LONDON -- The United States has opened a new line of combat against the Islamic
State, directing the military's six-year-old Cyber Command for the first time to
mount computer-network attacks that are now being used alongside more
traditional weapons.

The effort reflects President Obama's desire to bring many of the secret
American cyberweapons that have been aimed elsewhere, notably at Iran, into the
fight against the Islamic State -- which has proved effective in using modern
communications and encryption to recruit and carry out operations.

The National Security Agency, which specializes in electronic surveillance, has
for years listened intensely to the militants of the Islamic State, and those
reports are often part of the president's daily intelligence briefing. But the
N.S.A.'s military counterpart, Cyber Command, was focused largely on Russia,
China, Iran and North Korea -- where cyberattacks on the United States most
frequently originate -- and had run virtually no operations against what has
become the most dangerous terrorist organization in the world.

A review of what should be done to confront the Islamic State is on Mr. Obama's
agenda on Monday, when he is scheduled to attend a conference in Hanover,
Germany, with the leaders of Britain, France, Italy and Germany. Of these
efforts, the cybercampaign is the newest. It is also the one discussed in least
detail by officials of many countries, and its successes or failures are the
most difficult to assess from the outside.

The goal of the new campaign is to disrupt the ability of the Islamic State to
spread its message, attract new adherents, circulate orders from commanders and
carry out day-to-day functions, like paying its fighters. A benefit of the
administration's exceedingly rare public discussion of the campaign, officials
said, is to rattle the Islamic State's commanders, who have begun to realize
that sophisticated hacking efforts are manipulating their data. Potential
recruits may also be deterred if they come to worry about the security of their
communications with the militant group.

Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter is among those who have publicly discussed
the new mission, but only in broad terms, and this month the deputy secretary of
defense, Robert O. Work, was more colorful in describing the effort.

''We are dropping cyberbombs,'' Mr. Work said. ''We have never done that
before.''

The campaign has been conducted by a small number of ''national mission teams,''
newly created cyberunits loosely modeled on Special Operations forces.

While officials declined to discuss the details of their operations, interviews
with more than a half-dozen senior and midlevel officials indicate that the
effort has begun with a series of ''implants'' in the militants' networks to
learn the online habits of commanders. Now, the plan is to imitate them or to
alter their messages, with the aim of redirecting militants to areas more
vulnerable to attack by American drones or local ground forces.

In other cases, officials said, the United States may complement operations to
bomb warehouses full of cash by using cyberattacks to interrupt electronic
transfers and misdirect payments.

The fact that the administration is beginning to talk of its use of the new
weapons is a dramatic change. As recently as four years ago, it would not
publicly admit to developing offensive cyberweapons or confirm its role in any
attacks on computer networks.

That is partly because cyberattacks inside another nation raise major questions
over invasion of sovereignty. But in the case of the Islamic State, officials
say a decision was made that a bit of boasting might degrade the enemy's trust
in its communications, jumbling and even deterring some actions.

''Our cyberoperations are disrupting their command-and-control and
communications,'' Mr. Obama said this month, emerging from a meeting at the
C.I.A. headquarters in Langley, Va., on countering the Islamic State.

Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, offered
broad outlines of the new campaign against the Islamic State, which is also
known as ISIS or ISIL, during a news conference in February.

''We're trying to both physically and virtually isolate ISIL, limit their
ability to conduct command and control, limit their ability to communicate with
each other, limit their ability to conduct operations locally and tactically,''
he said.

''But I'll be one of the first ones arguing that that's about all we should talk
about,'' General Dunford said. ''We want them to be surprised when we conduct
cyberoperations. And, frankly, they're going to experience some friction that's
associated with us and some friction that's just associated with the normal
course of events in dealing in the information age.''

In an interview this month in Colorado Springs, where she talked to Air Force
Academy cadets, Mr. Obama's national security adviser, Susan E. Rice, said that
the fight against the Islamic State had to be thought of as a multifront war --
and that computers were just another weapon in the arsenal.

''It should not be taken out of proportion -- it is not the only tool,'' she
said when asked about Mr. Work's ''cyberbombs'' comment. In fact, some of Mr.
Work's colleagues acknowledged that they had winced when he used the term,
because government lawyers have gone to extraordinary lengths to narrowly limit
cyberattacks to highly precise operations with as little collateral damage as
possible.

But Ms. Rice said the Islamic State had ''uniquely utilized cyberspace'' to
recruit, to communicate over encrypted apps and to coordinate its operations
from Syria to Europe.

Ms. Rice would not comment on reports from officials in the Pentagon that Mr.
Obama had asked -- quite pointedly -- in the fall why the arsenal of
cyberweapons that had been developed at a cost of hundreds of millions, if not
billions, of dollars was not being used in the fight against the terrorist
group.

Several officials said that Mr. Carter had complained that Cyber Command was too
focused on traditional adversaries, and that he had set deadlines for a new
array of operational cyberplans aimed at the Islamic State. Those were
ultimately delivered by Adm. Michael S. Rogers, the commander of Cyber Command
and the director of the National Security Agency.

But inside Fort Meade in Maryland, home to the N.S.A. and Cyber Command, initial
demands from the White House generated some resistance, according to officials
involved in the debate.

The N.S.A. has spent years penetrating foreign networks -- the Chinese military,
Russian submarine communications, Internet traffic and other targets -- placing
thousands of implants in those networks to allow it to listen in.

But those implants can be used to manipulate data or to shut down a network.
That frequently leads to a battle between the N.S.A. civilians -- who know that
to make use of an implant is to blow its cover -- and the military operators who
want to strike back. N.S.A. officials complained that once the implants were
used to attack, the Islamic State militants would stop the use of a
communications channel and perhaps start one that was harder to find, penetrate
or de-encrypt.

''It's a delicate balance,'' Ms. Rice said. ''We still have to keep our eye on
the Russia-China state-sponsored activity, but this was a new mission, one where
we have to balance the collection equities against the disruption equities.''

In Britain, the Government Communications Headquarters, the country's equivalent
to the N.S.A., has been going through a similar debate. It is a familiar one for
the British: According to an oft-repeated legend from World War II, Winston
Churchill decided to let the Nazis bomb Coventry, at a cost of hundreds of
lives, rather than reveal that Britain had used its Enigma machine to crack
German codes. (There is a historical dispute about whether Churchill knew the
city was to be targeted.)

Lisa O. Monaco, a deputy national security adviser and Mr. Obama's top adviser
for counterterrorism, has led efforts examining how to disrupt the use of social
media for recruiting. She has met technology executives in Silicon Valley;
Austin, Tex.; Boston; and Washington to come up with a more integrated plan for
both taking down social media posts and encouraging the development of a
counternarrative.

One effort has included amplifying the testimony of Islamic State recruits who
have escaped and now describe the group's brutality and question its adherence
to the true tenets of Islam. Facebook, YouTube and Twitter are also growing more
efficient at finding and removing Islamic State posts -- which they can take
down without court orders because the posts are a violation of the companies'
terms of service, executives say.

But Ms. Monaco suggested that the effort was just beginning. ''We are not going
to kill our way out of this conflict,'' she said. ''And we are not going to
delete our way out of it, either.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/04/25/us/politics/us-directs-cyberweapons-at-isis-fo
r-first-time.html

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Adm. Michael S. Rogers, who leads Cyber Command and the National
Security Agency, testifying on Capitol Hill this month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP
SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (A6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        April 26, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Review: In 'The Adventurist,' an Executive's Search for Meaning and Small
Raptures;
Books of The Times

BYLINE: DWIGHT GARNER

SECTION: BOOKS

LENGTH: 938 words



HIGHLIGHT: A debut novel about a Midwestern transplant to the South carries an
echo of Walker Percy and the author's own brand of existential despair.


J. Bradford Hipps's bright and large-souled first novel, "The Adventurist," is
set in the New South of gleaming office towers and tract houses and conference
centers. This is where the region's major cities, he writes, have "begun to
except themselves from their soil's bony history."

His novel's hero, Henry Hurt, is a programmer and an executive with a company
called Cyber Systems. Henry is a droll and chivalrous if mild fellow who may
remind some readers of Binx Bolling, the New Orleans stockbroker who is the
protagonist of Walker Percy's classic novel "The Moviegoer" (1961).

The slight resemblance is intentional. This novel begins with an epigraph from
"The Moviegoer" ("Businessmen are our only metaphysicians") and it shares some
of that novel's buoyant yet searching tone. But Mr. Hipps is his own writer, and
he's one to reckon with. He has grace and insight to spare.

"The Adventurist" is that relative rarity, a business novel that's interested in
what people get out of their work lives. Henry is no Babbitt; he is far from
smug or vacuous; he is not a dupe. But he is good at what he does and takes
pride in it. He is 34 and single and aware of "satisfactions like a thick
wallet."

Henry's sister, an altruist who lives back home in Minneapolis, is convinced he
is made for a higher purpose. He tells her: "The day I hold forth on digital
security at a dinner party is the day I quit. What moves me to work is money's
comforts, yes, and also a community of smart, mostly efficient people; the sense
of place that a good office gives."

He's aware that, in admitting you crave money, "you set yourself up as a
satirical creature." He can live with that, for now, at any rate.

"The Adventurist" is about the small and then the large ways in which Henry's
life begins to fray. Cyber Systems has a bad quarter and may go under. He and
other executives are forced to go on a barnstorming tour to drum up new
business. His lack of efficiency at romance tortures him. His beloved father is
in the early stages of dementia.

Mr. Hipps is as adept as a gifted playwright at setting a scene. Important
moments in "The Adventurist" occur in airports and snowed-in hotel bars, where
the electricity flickers. The author writes about these places with a casual
vividness that put me in mind of Walter Kirn's novel "Up in the Air."

There are also indelible scenes at a strip club and a Nascar race. (Both outings
bring Henry to something close to despair.) A stolen kiss occurs on a Ferris
wheel. At the strip club, the men lined up along the catwalk remind him,
bleakly, of Communion-takers at the altar rail. Henry views the Nascar race as
an "imperial spectacle." He observes how the "bright-painted sponsorships would
shame coral fish."

Mr. Hipps's prose is reliably this crisp. A co-worker has "trouser creases sharp
as the prow of a destroyer." A man throws back his whiskey with "a quick pelican
jerk of the neck." An old man has a mouth that is "pinched in a sort of bitter
embouchure, like a trumpeter."

These kinds of observations are the buttons and clasps of this writer's attire.
The fabric of "The Adventurist" is made from Henry's search for meaning and for
life's small raptures, what he calls "these little junkets into beauty."

Throughout the novel Henry fights what he calls "the pall," a sense of
desperation that seeps in at an afternoon's margins. He wards it off in small
ways. ("The remedy is obvious: to the laptop. Metaphysical dislocation is no
match for a to-do list.") He can't always keep it at bay.

He has given up on television because the final episode of a good series sends a
ghostly wind through him. "The program ends, the darkness rises, and the strings
play elegy for me, not them," he says. "There is nothing left but to stab the
remote and sit in the awful quiet." The Midwesterner in Henry longs for a
hearth; the electronic one has let him down.

He is aware, at the Nascar rally, that he does not fit in. Amid the rowdy
tailgaters he feels on display, and not in a good way. About how others see him
as a figure of derision and almost desire to hoot, he remarks: "No matter how
liberal a person's sentiments, how tolerant and unprejudiced his cardinal
humors, he is glad to see the outcast, to know conclusively it is not him."

There is drama in Henry's attempts to maintain his equilibrium. There is yet
more drama, genuine human stuff, in his awareness that many dozens of lives are
in danger if he and the other executives can't keep Cyber Systems afloat. People
have families and mortgages; at least one is in the United States illegally and
might get thrown out.

Henry has an outsider's sense of the South, a sense that keeps his transistors
alert. "I am forever being outflanked," he sadly reports, "by Southern manners."
He envies a certain kind of confident Southern man, about whom he says: "His is
a discerning shtick of which the Southerner is king: wicked-sounding but
affectionate, droll, imperturbable above all."

Who is Henry? He turns out to be a fool for love, among other things. He
acquires a physical as well as an intellectual crush on a married co-worker. He
adores the way that, in conversation, "a heartfelt obscenity, deployed just so,
activated her pleasure centers like a neon sign."

"The Adventurist" activated most of my cranial pleasure centers. It's a brisk
and polished and somehow very American novel. It moves confidently, that is,
until it can no longer pretend to do so. It delivers to the reader internal
wounds that will fail to clot.

The Adventurist

By J. Bradford Hipps

276 pages. St. Martin's Press. $25.99.

PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1); PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN KRATHAUS) (C6)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (News)

                             April 26, 2016 Tuesday

Morning Agenda: Bill Gross on Beating Pimco

BYLINE: AMIE TSANG

LENGTH: 2078 words



HIGHLIGHT: Regulators Approve Charter Communications Deal | Tribune Plays Coy


 BILL GROSS ON BEATING PIMCO   |  William H. Gross was fired from Pimco two
years ago, but remains very close to it both physically - he is just down the
road - and psychologically,
Landon Thomas Jr. reports in DealBook.

"We were a family: Everything I did was for them," Mr. Gross said. And for Pimco
he remains hard to ignore with his campaign to promote his superior performance.

Since the firm decided it would be better off without him, $376 billion has
walked out  the door. And Mr. Gross has filed a lawsuit asserting that he was
wrongfully terminated. Pimco's response was that Mr. Gross's erratic and
reckless behavior left it no choice.

Mohamed El-Erian, who had been set to succeed Mr. Gross, left abruptly in 2014.
Furious at the betrayal, Mr. Gross wanted to dock Mr. El-Erian's pay and provoke
him into suing Pimco - a move  Mr. Gross believed would hurt Mr. El-Erian's
chances of getting another job. Pimco executives rejected the idea and a demand
that they lie to a newspaper reporter to present Mr. Gross in a better light,
according to people who worked with him at Pimco.

Mr. Gross's new vehicle, Janus Global Unconstrained Fund, is beating its
counterpart. "I am fixated on proving that they were wrong," he said. Since Mr.
Gross took control of his fund on Oct. 6, 2014, he is up 1.8 percent, compared
with Pimco Unconstrained, which is down 1.64 percent, according to Morningstar.

"My whole evening is dependent on whether I beat them," Mr. Gross said.  "You
see, I have to prove it all over again. Every day."

REGULATORS APPROVE CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS DEAL  |  Federal regulators have moved
to approve Charter Communications' $65.5 billion acquisitions of Time Warner
Cable and Bright House Networks,
Cecilia Kang and Emily Steel report in The New York Times. The approval order
was expected to receive enough votes to close the deals, which still await final
approval from regulators in California.

The move to allow the creation of a new cable giant came with  restrictions that
showed how regulators are increasingly using their power to support policy goals
that are not covered by current regulations for the industry.

The Federal Communications Commission and Justice Department imposed mandates on
the acquisitions aimed at protecting streaming video companies and providing
cheaper broadband services to low-income families. The aim was to ensure
competition in the nascent online video business and to enhance Internet
connectivity given that broadband is now deemed a utility.

They asked Charter to agree to abstain from negotiations with programmers that
would keep content off competing streaming services like Netflix and Amazon
Prime Video. Charter had to promise that for seven years it would not cap data
for broadband users running up big bills watching online video or charge
companies like Netflix extra to connect to Charter customers. It also agreed to
expand its Internet services and offer cheaper broadband service to low-income
households.

The industry has been shifting from a business controlled by hundreds of
regional outfits to one controlled by three major players - Comcast, Charter and
Altice. These companies have more leverage in negotiations with television
companies over programming and distribution deals, and what crosses their
broadband pipes, including online video.

The Stop Mega Cable Coalition said that the proposals still fell short of
"addressing all of the threats to competition and consumers  posed by this
transaction," adding that Charter should be required to offer a stand-alone
broadband service.

Others, however, said the F.C.C. was overreaching. "At first blush, it appears
that the commission may have operated well outside the four corners of the
merger application to pursue unrelated matters and policies,"
Michael O'Rielly, a Republican commissioner for the agency, said in a statement.

ON THE AGENDA   |  The Senate Committee on Finance will hold a hearing on
navigating business tax reform at 9:30 a.m. The United States Chamber of
Commerce's China Business Conference starts at 3 p.m.  Apple will announce its
latest quarterly earnings at 5 p.m.

TRIBUNE PLAYS COY  |  On Monday, Gannett, the publisher of USA Today, offered
$815 million for Tribune Publishing, the publisher of The Los Angeles Times and
the Chicago Tribune, as Sydney Ember and Leslie Picker report in DealBook.

The unsolicited bid illustrates the rising desperation in the newspaper
industry. Publishers have rushed to consolidate as newspaper prices have fallen.

Tribune has struggled since its disastrous sale for $13 billion to the real
estate mogul Sam Zell almost a decade ago. Gannett has better prospects, with
greater ability to negotiate on newsprint prices and consolidate back-office
functions. If Tribune's owners do not leap at the offer, their papers could
become tomorrow's fish wrap, Jennifer Saba argues in Breakingviews.

Tribune's response so far has been far from that enthusiastic. In effect, it
was, "Wait. We're not sure we want to do that and, actually, we're not sure we
even want to talk to you about it," Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in DealBook.

Gannett made its bid two weeks ago behind the scenes. It was worth $12.25 a
share - 63 percent higher than Friday's share price. Most public companies that
at least pretend to think about their shareholders would hire bankers to sort
out their options, perhaps engaging in a bit of back-and-forth. Not Tribune.

The board sat on the offer for 10 days without retaining outside advisers. It
then wrote to Gannett saying that it was still working on hiring outside
advisers, it was "in the midst of significant transformation" and said that the
company would "undergo some change" after June 2,  its annual meeting.

Two board members will step down that day and Michael Ferro, an entrepreneur
with next to no media experience who invested in the company this year and
became the company's nonexecutive chairman, will have effectively mounted a coup
of the board, Mr. Sorkin writes.

His company invested $44.4 million in Tribune, and Mr. Ferro was given a seat on
the board. Mr. Ferro persuaded the board to fire the Tribune's chief executive
and replace him with Justin Dearborn, a former health care technology executive
with zero experience in media.

Three people, friendly to Mr. Ferro but with no meaningful background in
journalism, were then added to take the board up to 10 people. When the two
directors step down on June 2, Mr. Ferro will have a majority and the leeway to
direct the process.

The idea that the board of Tribune has allowed this sort of behavior to take
place is alarming, given the company's history of mismanagement, Mr. Sorkin
argues.

|  Contact amie.tsang@nytimes.com

Mergers & Acquisitions »

Atlas Mara Exploring a Bid for Barclays Africa Group  |  The venture backed by
Robert E. Diamond Jr., the former Barclays chief executive, is trying to put
together an offer with a group of investors.
NYT »

Groupe Fnac Increases Stake in Darty and Makes a Final Offer  |  Fnac said it
owned 18.93 percent of Darty's shares and was willing to pay about $1.3 billion
in cash in a bidding war for the French retailer.
NYT »

E.U. Regulators Said to Block Sale of O2 Network   |  Competition regulators in
the European Union will veto CK Hutchison's $14.9 billion deal to buy O2 UK and
create the biggest mobile network operator in Britain, Reuters reports, citing
two people familiar with the matter.
REUTERS

550 Madison Ave. in New York Sells for $1.3 Billion   |  Two property investors,
the United States subsidiary of the Saudi conglomerate Olayan Group and
Chelsfield, based in London, have agreed to pay $1.3 billion tod $1.4 billion to
buy the property.
THE FINANCIAL TIMES

INVESTMENT BANKING »

Perella Weinberg Said to Be in Merger Talks with Tudor Pickering  |  Perella
Weinberg Partners, the investment bank founded by the longtime dealmakers Joe
Perella and Peter Weinberg, is considering a tie-up with Tudor Pickering Holt to
push into the energy sector, Bloomberg News reports, citing people familiar with
the discussions.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

Top Tech Adviser Gains Coveted License at Home  |  Beijing is awarding a coveted
securities license to China Renaissance, cementing the investment bank's place
as the top deal maker in the country's growing technology sector.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

Zaoui Brothers Cash In on Big Deals  |  Numbers from the filings of Zaoui &
Company, the tiny European advisory firm set up by two brothers who left senior
roles at Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, show just how lucrative boutique
advisory businesses can be for senior deal makers.
THE FINANCIAL TIMES

Sanford and Joan Weill Donate $185 Million to U.C. San Francisco  |  The gift
from Sanford Weill, a former chairman of Citigroup, and his wife, Joan, will
finance a new neuroscience research center.
NYT »

PRIVATE EQUITY »

K.K.R.  Swings to a Quarterly Loss   |  Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company's
economic net income, a measure of profit that includes unrealized gains on
investments, posted a loss of $553 million, or 65 cents a share, in the first
three months of the year.
THE FINANCIAL TIMES

HEDGE FUNDS »

Bass Said to Start Separate Fund for China-Related Trades  |  Kyle Bass, the
hedge fund manager predicting immense losses for Chinese banks because of
nonperforming loans, is raising money to start a dedicated fund for bets in the
country, Bloomberg News reports, citing a person with knowledge of the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

I.P.O./OFFERINGS »

Saudi Prince Shares Plan to Cut Oil Dependency and Energize the Economy  |  The
plan aims to steer Saudi Arabia through a drop in oil prices and a demographic
shift to a significantly youthful population.
NYT »

Philips 'More Likely' to Pursue I.P.O. of Lighting Business  |  The Dutch
electronics giant has been pursuing a potential sale or public offering of the
unit, which includes light bulbs and lighting systems.
NYT »

Chiefs of Landry's and Jefferies to Start Acquisition Company  |  Tilman
Fertitta, the chief executive of Landry's, and Richard Handler, the chief at the
investment bank Jefferies Group, are introducing a special purpose acquisition
company and plan to raise as much as $300 million in an initial public offering,
Reuters reports, citing people familiar with the matter.
REUTERS

VENTURE CAPITAL »

Alibaba Financial Affiliate Raises $4.5 Billion  |  Ant Financial, one of the
world's largest electronic-payments companies, received investments from a
number of companies backed by the Chinese government.
NYT »

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

Volkswagen's Legal Endgame in Emissions Scandal  |  Add up the penalties and
legal claims, and Volkswagen's $18 billion in reserves should cover most of the
costs it faces from its emissions scandal, Peter J. Henning writes in White
Collar Watch.
White Collar Watch »

Volkswagen Reverses Course on Union at Tennessee Plant  |  The automaker had
aimed to replicate a German model of labor relations at the Chattanooga factory,
but the emissions scandal has poisoned the waters.
NYT »

SWIFT Aware of Multiple Online Fraud Incidents  |  SWIFT, the global financial
network that banks use to transfer billions of dollars every day, warned its
customers on Monday that it was aware of "a number of recent cyber incidents"
where attackers had sent fraudulent messages over its system.
REUTERS

Victor in Copyright Case Returns to Supreme Court for Legal Fees  |  The
justices are debating the purpose and effects of awarding lawyers' fees to the
prevailing parties in copyright cases.
NYT »

Iran Threatens Lawsuit in Hague Court Over U.S. Ruling on $2 Billion  |  It is
unclear, however, whether the International Court of Justice will have
jurisdiction in Iran's complaint.
NYT »

Valeant Pharmaceuticals Picks Joseph Papa, Perrigo Chief, as C.E.O.  |  Mr. Papa
will replace J. Michael Pearson in a move that comes during a time of turmoil
for Valeant, whose stock has tumbled in recent months.
NYT »

Obama Stresses Need to Monitor Data in Fighting Terrorism  |  The president's
speech in Europe called for continued vigilance but runs counter to the urging
of many European privacy officials for greater restraint.
NYT » | U.S. to Increase Military Presence in Syria, Obama Says

BP Reports $583 Million Loss in First Quarter  |  Lower oil prices were behind
the red ink, and the company said it would keep its dividend for the quarter at
10 cents a share, payable in June.
NYT »

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 27, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Stageworthy Scene-Master Seeking Truth

BYLINE: By DWIGHT GARNER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 945 words


J. Bradford Hipps's bright and large-souled first novel, ''The Adventurist,'' is
set in the New South of gleaming office towers and tract houses and conference
centers. This is where the region's major cities, he writes, have ''begun to
except themselves from their soil's bony history.''

His novel's hero, Henry Hurt, is a programmer and an executive with a company
called Cyber Systems. Henry is a droll and chivalrous if mild fellow who may
remind some readers of Binx Bolling, the New Orleans stockbroker who is the
protagonist of Walker Percy's classic novel ''The Moviegoer'' (1961).

The slight resemblance is intentional. This novel begins with an epigraph from
''The Moviegoer'' (''Businessmen are our only metaphysicians'') and it shares
some of that novel's buoyant yet searching tone. But Mr. Hipps is his own
writer, and he's one to reckon with. He has grace and insight to spare.

''The Adventurist'' is that relative rarity, a business novel that's interested
in what people get out of their work lives. Henry is no Babbitt; he is far from
smug or vacuous; he is not a dupe. But he is good at what he does and takes
pride in it. He is 34 and single and aware of ''satisfactions like a thick
wallet.''

Henry's sister, an altruist who lives back home in Minneapolis, is convinced he
is made for a higher purpose. He tells her: ''The day I hold forth on digital
security at a dinner party is the day I quit. What moves me to work is money's
comforts, yes, and also a community of smart, mostly efficient people; the sense
of place that a good office gives.''

He's aware that, in admitting you crave money, ''you set yourself up as a
satirical creature.'' He can live with that, for now, at any rate.

''The Adventurist'' is about the small and then the large ways in which Henry's
life begins to fray. Cyber Systems has a bad quarter and may go under. He and
other executives are forced to go on a barnstorming tour to drum up new
business. His lack of efficiency at romance tortures him. His beloved father is
in the early stages of dementia.

Mr. Hipps is as adept as a gifted playwright at setting a scene. Important
moments in ''The Adventurist'' occur in airports and snowed-in hotel bars, where
the electricity flickers. The author writes about these places with a casual
vividness that put me in mind of Walter Kirn's novel ''Up in the Air.''

There are also indelible scenes at a strip club and a Nascar race. (Both outings
bring Henry to something close to despair.) A stolen kiss occurs on a Ferris
wheel. At the strip club, the men lined up along the catwalk remind him,
bleakly, of Communion-takers at the altar rail. Henry views the Nascar race as
an ''imperial spectacle.'' He observes how the ''bright-painted sponsorships
would shame coral fish.''

Mr. Hipps's prose is reliably this crisp. A co-worker has ''trouser creases
sharp as the prow of a destroyer.'' A man throws back his whiskey with ''a quick
pelican jerk of the neck.'' An old man has a mouth that is ''pinched in a sort
of bitter embouchure, like a trumpeter.''

These kinds of observations are the buttons and clasps of this writer's attire.
The fabric of ''The Adventurist'' is made from Henry's search for meaning and
for life's small raptures, what he calls ''these little junkets into beauty.''

Throughout the novel Henry fights what he calls ''the pall,'' a sense of
desperation that seeps in at an afternoon's margins. He wards it off in small
ways. (''The remedy is obvious: to the laptop. Metaphysical dislocation is no
match for a to-do list.'') He can't always keep it at bay.

He has given up on television because the final episode of a good series sends a
ghostly wind through him. ''The program ends, the darkness rises, and the
strings play elegy for me, not them,'' he says. ''There is nothing left but to
stab the remote and sit in the awful quiet.'' The Midwesterner in Henry longs
for a hearth; the electronic one has let him down.

He is aware, at the Nascar rally, that he does not fit in. Amid the rowdy
tailgaters he feels on display, and not in a good way. About how others see him
as a figure of derision and almost desire to hoot, he remarks: ''No matter how
liberal a person's sentiments, how tolerant and unprejudiced his cardinal
humors, he is glad to see the outcast, to know conclusively it is not him.''

There is drama in Henry's attempts to maintain his equilibrium. There is yet
more drama, genuine human stuff, in his awareness that many dozens of lives are
in danger if he and the other executives can't keep Cyber Systems afloat. People
have families and mortgages; at least one is in the United States illegally and
might get thrown out.

Henry has an outsider's sense of the South, a sense that keeps his transistors
alert. ''I am forever being outflanked,'' he sadly reports, ''by Southern
manners.'' He envies a certain kind of confident Southern man, about whom he
says: ''His is a discerning shtick of which the Southerner is king:
wicked-sounding but affectionate, droll, imperturbable above all.''

Who is Henry? He turns out to be a fool for love, among other things. He
acquires a physical as well as an intellectual crush on a married co-worker. He
adores the way that, in conversation, ''a heartfelt obscenity, deployed just so,
activated her pleasure centers like a neon sign.''

''The Adventurist'' activated most of my cranial pleasure centers. It's a brisk
and polished and somehow very American novel. It moves confidently, that is,
until it can no longer pretend to do so. It delivers to the reader internal
wounds that will fail to clot.

The Adventurist

By J. Bradford Hipps

276 pages. St. Martin's Press. $25.99.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/04/27/books/review-in-the-adventurist-an-executives-
search-for-meaning-and-small-raptures.html

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN KRATHAUS) (C6)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 28, 2016 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Transcript: Donald Trump's Foreign Policy Speech

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Politics; Pg.

LENGTH: 4571 words


This is a transcript of Donald J. Trump's foreign policy remarks, as transcribed
by the Federal News Service.

Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you, and thank you to the Center for
National Interest for honoring me with this invitation. It truly is a great
honor. I'd like to talk today about how to develop a new foreign policy
direction for our country, one that replaces randomness with purpose, ideology
with strategy, and chaos with peace.

It's time to shake the rust off America's foreign policy. It's time to invite
new voices and new visions into the fold, something we have to do. The direction
I will outline today will also return us to a timeless principle. My foreign
policy will always put the interests of the American people and American
security above all else. It has to be first. Has to be.

That will be the foundation of every single decision that I will make.

America First will be the major and overriding theme of my administration. But
to chart our path forward, we must first briefly take a look back. We have a lot
to be proud of.

In the 1940s we saved the world. The greatest generation beat back the Nazis and
Japanese imperialists. Then we saved the world again. This time, from
totalitarianism and communism. The Cold War lasted for decades but, guess what,
we won and we won big. Democrats and Republicans working together got Mr.
Gorbachev to heed the words of President Reagan, our great president, when he
said, tear down this wall.

(APPLAUSE)

History will not forget what he did. A very special man and president.
Unfortunately, after the Cold War our foreign policy veered badly off course. We
failed to develop a new vision for a new time. In fact, as time went on, our
foreign policy began to make less and less sense. Logic was replaced with
foolishness and arrogance, which led to one foreign policy disaster after
another.

They just kept coming and coming. We went from mistakes in Iraq to Egypt to
Libya, to President Obama's line in the sand in Syria. Each of these actions
have helped to throw the region into chaos and gave ISIS the space it needs to
grow and prosper. Very bad. It all began with a dangerous idea that we could
make western democracies out of countries that had no experience or interests in
becoming a western democracy.

We tore up what institutions they had and then were surprised at what we
unleashed. Civil war, religious fanaticism, thousands of Americans and just
killed be lives, lives, lives wasted. Horribly wasted. Many trillions of dollars
were lost as a result. The vacuum was created that ISIS would fill. Iran, too,
would rush in and fill that void much to their really unjust enrichment.

They have benefited so much, so sadly, for us. Our foreign policy is a complete
and total disaster. No vision. No purpose. No direction. No strategy. Today I
want to identify five main weaknesses in our foreign policy.

First, our resources are totally over extended. President Obama has weakened our
military by weakening our economy. He's crippled us with wasteful spending,
massive debt, low growth, a huge trade deficit and open borders. Our
manufacturing trade deficit with the world is now approaching $1 trillion a
year.

We're rebuilding other countries while weakening our own. Ending the theft of
American jobs will give us resources we need to rebuild our military, which has
to happen and regain our financial independence and strength. I am the only
person running for the presidency who understands this and this is a serious
problem.

I'm the only one -- believe me, I know them all, I'm the only one who knows how
to fix it.

(APPLAUSE)

Secondly, our allies are not paying their fair share, and I've been talking
about this recently a lot. Our allies must contribute toward their financial,
political, and human costs, have to do it, of our tremendous security burden.
But many of them are simply not doing so.

They look at the United States as weak and forgiving and feel no obligation to
honor their agreements with us. In NATO, for instance, only 4 of 28 other member
countries besides America, are spending the minimum required 2 percent of GDP on
defense. We have spent trillions of dollars over time on planes, missiles,
ships, equipment, building up our military to provide a strong defense for
Europe and Asia.

The countries we are defending must pay for the cost of this defense, and if
not, the U.S. must be prepared to let these countries defend themselves. We have
no choice.

(APPLAUSE)

The whole world will be safer if our allies do their part to support our common
defense and security. A Trump administration will lead a free world that is
properly armed and funded, and funded beautifully.

Thirdly, our friends are beginning to think they can't depend on us. We've had a
president who dislikes our friends and bows to our enemies, something that we've
never seen before in the history of our country. He negotiated a disastrous deal
with Iran, and then we watched them ignore its terms even before the ink was
dry. Iran cannot be allowed to have a nuclear weapon, cannot be allowed.
Remember that, cannot be allowed to have a nuclear weapon.

(APPLAUSE)

And under a Trump administration, will never, ever be allowed to have that
nuclear weapon.

(APPLAUSE)

All of this without even mentioning the humiliation of the United States with
Iran's treatment of our ten captured sailors -- so vividly I remember that day.
In negotiation, you must be willing to walk. The Iran deal, like so many of our
worst agreements, is the result of not being willing to leave the table.

When the other side knows you're not going to walk, it becomes absolutely
impossible to win -- you just can't win. At the same time, your friends need to
know that you will stick by the agreements that you have with them. You've made
that agreement, you have to stand by it and the world will be a better place.
President Obama gutted our missile defense program and then abandoned our
missile defense plans with Poland and the Czech Republic. He supported the
ouster of a friendly regime in Egypt that had a longstanding peace treaty with
Israel, and then helped bring the Muslim Brotherhood to power in its place.

Israel, our great friend and the one true democracy in the Middle East has been
snubbed and criticized by an administration that lacks moral clarity. Just a few
days ago, Vice President Biden again criticized Israel, a force for justice and
peace, for acting as an impatient peace area in the region.

President Obama has not been a friend to Israel. He has treated Iran with tender
love and care and made it a great power. Iran has, indeed, become a great, great
power in just a very short period of time, because of what we've done. All of
the expense and all at the expense of Israel, our allies in the region and very
importantly, the United States itself.

We've picked fights with our oldest friends, and now they're starting to look
elsewhere for help. Remember that. Not good.

Fourth, our rivals no longer respect us. In fact, they're just as confused as
our allies, but in an even bigger problem is they don't take us seriously
anymore. The truth is they don't respect us. When President Obama landed in Cuba
on Air Force One, no leader was there, nobody, to greet him.

Perhaps an incident without precedent in the long and prestigious history of Air
Force One. Then amazingly, the same thing happened in Saudi Arabia. It's called
no respect. Absolutely no respect.

Do you remember when the president made a long and expensive trip to Copenhagen,
Denmark, to get the Olympics for our country, and after this unprecedented
effort, it was announced that the United States came in fourth -- fourth place?
The president of the United States making this trip -- unprecedented -- comes in
fourth place. He should have known the result before making such an embarrassing
commitment. We were laughed at all over the world, as we have been many, many
times.

The list of humiliations go on and on and on. President Obama watches helplessly
as North Korea increases its aggression and expands further and further with its
nuclear reach. Our president has allowed China to continue its economic assault
on American jobs and wealth, refusing to enforce trade deals and apply leverage
on China necessary to rein in North Korea. We have the leverage. We have the
power over China, economic power, and people don't understand it. And with that
economic power, we can rein in and we can get them to do what they have to do
with North Korea, which is totally out of control.

He has even allowed China to steal government secrets with cyber attacks and
engaged in industrial espionage against the United States and its companies.
We've let our rivals and challengers think they can get away with anything, and
they do. They do at will. It always happens. If President Obama's goal had been
to weaken America, he could not have done a better job.

Finally, America no longer has a clear understanding of our foreign policy
goals. Since the end of the Cold War and the breakup of the Soviet Union, we've
lacked a coherent foreign policy. One day, we're bombing Libya and getting rid
of a dictator to foster democracy for civilians. The next day, we're watching
the same civilians suffer while that country falls and absolutely falls apart.
Lives lost, massive moneys lost. The world is a different place.

We're a humanitarian nation, but the legacy of the Obama-Clinton interventions
will be weakness, confusion and disarray, a mess. We've made the Middle East
more unstable and chaotic than ever before. We left Christians subject to
intense persecution and even genocide.

(APPLAUSE)

We have done nothing to help the Christians, nothing, and we should always be
ashamed for that, for that lack of action. Our actions in Iraq, Libya and Syria
have helped unleash ISIS, and we're in a war against radical Islam, but
President Obama won't even name the enemy, and unless you name the enemy, you
will never ever solve the problem.

(APPLAUSE)

Hillary Clinton also refuses to say the words radical Islam, even as she pushes
for a massive increase in refugees coming into our country. After Secretary
Clinton's failed intervention in Libya, Islamic terrorists in Benghazi took down
our consulate and killed our ambassador and three brave Americans. Then, instead
of taking charge that night, Hillary Clinton decided to go home and sleep.
Incredible.

Clinton blames it all on a video, an excuse that was a total lie, proven to be
absolutely a total lie. Our ambassador was murdered and our secretary of state
misled the nation. And, by the way, she was not awake to take that call at 3
o'clock in the morning. And now ISIS is making millions and millions of dollars
a week selling Libya oil. And you know what? We don't blockade, we don't bomb,
we don't do anything about it. It's almost as if our country doesn't even know
what's happening, which could be a fact and could be true. This will all change
when I become president.

To our friends and allies, I say America is going to be strong again. America is
going to be reliable again. It's going to be a great and reliable ally again.
It's going to be a friend again. We're going to finally have a coherent foreign
policy based upon American interests and the shared interests of our allies.

(APPLAUSE)

We're getting out of the nation-building business and instead focusing on
creating stability in the world. Our moments of greatest strength came when
politics ended at the water's edge. We need a new rational American foreign
policy, informed by the best minds and supported by both parties, and it will be
by both parties -- Democrats, Republicans, independents, everybody, as well as
by our close allies.

This is how we won the Cold War and it's how we will win our new future
struggles, which may be many, which may be complex, but we will win if I become
president.

(APPLAUSE)

First, we need a long-term plan to halt the spread and reach of radical Islam.
Containing the spread of radical Islam must be a major foreign policy goal of
the United States and indeed the world. Events may require the use of military
force, but it's also a philosophical struggle, like our long struggle in the
Cold War.

In this, we're going to be working very closely with our allies in the Muslim
world, all of which are at risk from radical Islamic violence, attacks and
everything else. It is a dangerous world, more dangerous now than it has ever
been.

We should work -- thank you.

(APPLAUSE)

We should work together with any nation in the region that is threatened by the
rise of radical Islam. But this has to be a two-way street. They must also be
good to us. Remember that. They have to be good to us, no longer one way. It's
now two-way. And remember, us and all we're doing, they have to appreciate what
we've done to them. We're going to help, but they have to appreciate what we've
done for them. The struggle against radical Islam also takes place in our
homeland. There are scores of recent migrants inside our borders charged with
terrorism. For every case known to the public, there are dozens and dozens more.
We must stop importing extremism through senseless immigration policies. We have
no idea where these people are coming from. There's no documentation. There's no
paperwork. There's nothing. We have to be smart. We have to be vigilant.

A pause for reassessment will help us to prevent the next San Bernardino or
frankly, much worse. All you have to do is look at the World Trade Center and
September 11th, one of the great catastrophes, in my opinion, the single
greatest military catastrophe in the history of our country; worse than Pearl
Harbor because you take a look at what's happened, and citizens were attacked,
as opposed to the military being attacked -- one of the true great catastrophes.

And then there's ISIS. I have a simple message for them. Their days are
numbered. I won't tell them where and I won't tell them how. We must...

(APPLAUSE)

... we must as a nation be more unpredictable. We are totally predictable. We
tell everything. We're sending troops. We tell them. We're sending something
else. We have a news conference. We have to be unpredictable. And we have to be
unpredictable starting now.

But they're going to be gone. ISIS will be gone if I'm elected president. And
they'll be gone quickly. They will be gone very, very quickly.

(APPLAUSE)

Secondly, we have to rebuild our military and our economy. The Russians and
Chinese have rapidly expanded their military capability, but look at what's
happened to us. Our nuclear weapons arsenal, our ultimate deterrent, has been
allowed to atrophy and is desperately in need of modernization and renewal. And
it has to happen immediately. Our active duty armed forces have shrunk from 2
million in 1991 to about 1.3 million today. The Navy has shrunk from over 500
ships to 272 ships during this same period of time. The Air Force is about
one-third smaller than 1991. Pilots flying B-52s in combat missions today. These
planes are older than virtually everybody in this room.

And what are we doing about this? President Obama has proposed a 2017 defense
budget that in real dollars, cuts nearly 25 percent from what we were spending
in 2011. Our military is depleted and we're asking our generals and military
leaders to worry about global warming.

We will spend what we need to rebuild our military. It is the cheapest, single
investment we can make. We will develop, build and purchase the best equipment
known to mankind. Our military dominance must be unquestioned, and I mean
unquestioned, by anybody and everybody.

But we will look for savings and spend our money wisely. In this time of
mounting debt, right now we have so much debt that nobody even knows how to
address the problem. But I do. No one dollar can be wasted. Not one single
dollar can we waste. We're also going to have to change our trade, immigration
and economic policies to make our economy strong again. And to put Americans
first again.

This will ensure that our own workers, right here in America, get the jobs and
higher pay that will grow our tax revenues, increase our economic might as a
nation, make us strong financially again. So, so important. We need to think
smart about areas where our technological superiority, and nobody comes close,
gives us an edge.

This includes 3D printing, artificial intelligence and cyber warfare. A great
country also takes care of its warriors. Our commitment to them is absolute, and
I mean absolute. A Trump administration will give our servicemen and women the
best equipment and support in the world when they serve and where they serve.
And the best care in the world when they return as veterans and they come back
home to civilian life. Our veterans...

(APPLAUSE)

Our veterans have not been treated fairly or justly. These are our great people
and we must treat them fairly. We must even treat them really, really well and
that will happen under the Trump administration.

(APPLAUSE)

Finally, we must develop a foreign policy based on American interests.
Businesses do not succeed when they lose sight of their core interests and
neither do countries. Look at what happened in the 1990s. Our embassies in Kenya
and Tanzania -- and this was a horrible time for us -- were attacked. and 17
brave sailors were killed on the U.S.S. Cole.

And what did we do? It seemed we put more effort into adding China into the
World Trade organization, which has been a total disaster for the United States.
Frankly, we spent more time on that than we did in stopping Al Qaeda. We even
had an opportunity to take out Osama bin Laden and we didn't do it

And then we got hit at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Again, the worst
attack on our country in its history. Our foreign policy goals must be based on
America's core national security interests. And the following will be my
priorities.

In the Middle East our goals must be, and I mean must be, to defeat terrorists
and promote regional stability, not radical change. We need to be clearsighted
about the groups that will never be anything other than enemies. And believe me,
we have groups that no matter what you do, they will be the enemy.: We have to
be smart enough to recognize who those groups are, who those people are, and not
help them. And we must only be generous to those that prove they are indeed our
friends.

(APPLAUSE)

We desire to live peacefully and in friendship with Russia and China. We have
serious differences with these two nations, and must regard them with open eyes,
but we are not bound to be adversaries. We should seek common ground based on
shared interests.

Russia, for instance, has also seen the horror of Islamic terrorism. I believe
an easing of tensions, and improved relations with Russia from a position of
strength only is possible, absolutely possible. Common sense says this cycle,
this horrible cycle of hostility must end and ideally will end soon. Good for
both countries.

Some say the Russians won't be reasonable. I intend to find out. If we can't
make a deal under my administration, a deal that's great -- not good, great --
for America, but also good for Russia, then we will quickly walk from the table.
It's as simple as that. We're going to find out.

Fixing our relations with China is another important step -- and really toward
creating an even more prosperous period of time. China respects strength and by
letting them take advantage of us economically, which they are doing like never
before, we have lost all of their respect.

We have a massive trade deficit with China, a deficit that we have to find a way
quickly, and I mean quickly, to balance. A strong and smart America is an
America that will find a better friend in China, better than we have right now.
Look at what China is doing in the South China Sea. They're not supposed to be
doing it.

No respect for this country or this president. We can both benefit or we can
both go our separate ways. If need be, that's what's going to have to happen.

After I'm elected president, I will also call for a summit with our NATO allies
and a separate summit with our Asian allies. In these summits, we will not only
discuss a rebalancing of financial commitments, but take a fresh look at how we
can adopt new strategies for tackling our common challenges. For instance, we
will discuss how we can upgrade NATO's outdated mission and structure, grown out
of the Cold War to confront our shared challenges, including migration and
Islamic terrorism.

(APPLAUSE)

I will not hesitate to deploy military force when there is no alternative. But
if America fights, it must only fight to win.

(APPLAUSE)

I will never sent our finest into battle unless necessary, and I mean absolutely
necessary, and will only do so if we have a plan for victory with a capital V.

(APPLAUSE)

Our goal is peace and prosperity, not war and destruction. The best way to
achieve those goals is through a disciplined, deliberate and consistent foreign
policy. With President Obama and Secretary Clinton we've had the exact opposite
-- a reckless, rudderless and aimless foreign policy, one that has blazed the
path of destruction in its wake.

After losing thousands of lives and spending trillions of dollars, we are in far
worst shape in the Middle East than ever, ever before. I challenge anyone to
explain the strategic foreign policy vision of Obama/Clinton. It has been a
complete and total disaster.

I will also be prepared to deploy America's economic resources. Financial
leverage and sanctions can be very, very persuasive, but we need to use them
selectively and with total determination. Our power will be used if others do
not play by the rules. In other words, if they do not treat us fairly. Our
friends and enemies must know that if I draw a line in the sand, I will enforce
that line in the sand. Believe me.

(APPLAUSE)

However, unlike other candidates for the presidency, war and aggression will not
be my first instinct. You cannot have a foreign policy without diplomacy. A
superpower understands that caution and restraint are really truly signs of
strength. Although not in government service, I was totally against the war in
Iraq, very proudly, saying for many years that it would destabilize the Middle
East. Sadly, I was correct, and the biggest beneficiary has been has been Iran,
who is systematically taking over Iraq and gaining access to their very rich oil
reserves, something it has wanted to do for decades.

And now, to top it off, we have ISIS. My goal is to establish a foreign policy
that will endure for several generations. That's why I also look and have to
look for talented experts with approaches and practical ideas, rather than
surrounding myself with those who have perfect résumés but very little to brag
about except responsibility for a long history of failed policies and continued
losses at war. We have to look to new people.

(APPLAUSE)

We have to look to new people because many of the old people frankly don't know
what they're doing, even though they may look awfully good writing in The New
York Times or being watched on television.

Finally, I will work with our allies to reinvigorate Western values and
institutions. Instead of trying to spread universal values that not everybody
shares or wants, we should understand that strengthening and promoting Western
civilization and its accomplishments will do more to inspire positive reforms
around the world than military interventions.

(APPLAUSE)

These are my goals as president. I will seek a foreign policy that all
Americans, whatever their party, can support, so important, and which our
friends and allies will respect and totally welcome. The world must know that we
do not go abroad in search of enemies, that we are always happy when old enemies
become friends and when old friends become allies, that's what we want. We want
them to be our allies.

We want the world to be -- we want to bring peace to the world. Too much
destruction out there, too many destructive weapons. The power of weaponry is
the single biggest problem that we have today in the world.

To achieve these goals, Americans must have confidence in their country and its
leadership. Again, many Americans must wonder why we our politicians seem more
interested in defending the borders of foreign countries than in defending their
own. Americans.

(APPLAUSE)

Americans must know that we're putting the American people first again on trade.

(APPLAUSE)

So true. On trade, on immigration, on foreign policy. The jobs, incomes and
security of the American worker will always be my first priority.

(APPLAUSE)

No country has ever prospered that failed to put its own interests first. Both
our friends and our enemies put their countries above ours and we, while being
fair to them, must start doing the same. We will no longer surrender this
country or its people to the false song of globalism. The nation-state remains
the true foundation for happiness and harmony. I am skeptical of international
unions that tie us up and bring America down and will never enter.

(APPLAUSE)

And under my administration, we will never enter America into any agreement that
reduces our ability to control our own affairs.

(APPLAUSE)

NAFTA, as an example, has been a total disaster for the United States and has
emptied our states -- literally emptied our states of our manufacturing and our
jobs. And I've just gotten to see it. I've toured Pennsylvania. I've toured New
York. I've toured so many of the states. They have been cleaned out. Their
manufacturing is gone.

Never again, only the reverse -- and I have to say this strongly -- never again;
only the reverse will happen. We will keep our jobs and bring in new ones. There
will be consequences for the companies that leave the United States only to
exploit it later. They fire the people. They take advantage of the United
States. There will be consequences for those companies. Never again.

Under a Trump administration, no American citizen will ever again feel that
their needs come second to the citizens of a foreign country.

(APPLAUSE)

I will view as president the world through the clear lens of American interests.
I will be America's greatest defender and most loyal champion. We will not
apologize for becoming successful again, but will instead embrace the unique
heritage that makes us who we are.

The world is most peaceful and most prosperous when America is strongest.
America will continue and continue forever to play the role of peacemaker. We
will always help save lives and indeed humanity itself, but to play the role, we
must make America strong again.

(APPLAUSE)

And always -- always, always, we must make, and we have to look at it from every
angle, and we have no choice, we must make America respected again. We must make
America truly wealthy again. And we must -- we have to and we will make America
great again. And if we do that -- and if we do that, perhaps this century can be
the most peaceful and prosperous the world has ever, ever known. Thank you very
much, everybody. I appreciate it. Thank you.

(APPLAUSE)

Thank you very much.

(APPLAUSE)

Thank you.

END

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/04/28/us/politics/transcript-trump-foreign-policy.ht
ml

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 8, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Carlos Maymí Fernández, Steven Rapkin

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 274 words


Carlos Alberto Maymí Fernández and Steven Rapkin are to be married May 8 in an
area of Central Park known as Hernshead, a miniature woodland landscape
overlooking the lake. Judge Valerie A. Pels of Bronx County Family Court is to
officiate.

Mr. Maymí Fernández (left), 51, is a vice president for account management at
Moody's Investors Service, the bond-rating firm, in Manhattan. He graduated from
Cornell and received an M.B.A. from New York University. He is also a commander
in the United States Navy Reserve at the U.S. Cyber Command at Fort George G.
Meade, Md. Later this month, he is to begin a one-year deployment to the U.S.
Africa Command in Djibouti.

He is a son of Emma Fernández of Bayamon, P.R., and the late José Luis Maymí.
His mother retired as the director of administration at the office of the
comptroller of Puerto Rico. His father was a journalist and editorial writer in
San Juan for the newspapers El Mundo and El Imparcial.

Mr. Rapkin, 54, is an economist in Manhattan for the Securities and Exchange
Commission. He graduated cum laude from Harvard and received a master's degree
in computer science from Cornell. He also received an M.B.A. from New York
University. He served in the Peace Corps in 1984 and 1985 as a mathematics
lecturer at Mindanao State University in Marawi City, the Philippines.

He is the son of Edward Rapkin of Charlottesville, Va., and the late Marilyn
Cahn Rapkin. His father retired as the owner of IN/US Service Corporation, a
company in Fairfield, N.J., that manufactured instruments used for measuring
radioactivity.

The couple met in May 1993, while visiting a waterfall in Ithaca, N.Y.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/08/fashion/weddings/carlos-maymi-fernandez-steven
-rapkin.html

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN BAUMAN)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 11, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

As 'Sextortion' Proliferates, Victims Find Precarious Place in Legal System

BYLINE: By JADA F. SMITH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 799 words


WASHINGTON -- Ever since law enforcement started seeing cases in the early
2000s, the crime known as sextortion has proliferated on the Internet, altering
the lives of thousands and ensnaring victims from college campuses to military
bases.

On Wednesday, the Brookings Institution will release two studies billed as the
first in-depth reviews of sextortion -- in which someone uses nude photographs
of someone to demand ever more sexually explicit content or other goods -- and
its precarious place in a legal system that acknowledges its existence but has
yet to write it into law.

''It's about the security environment in a world in which anyone can attack
anyone from anywhere,'' said Benjamin Wittes, a senior fellow in governance
studies at Brookings, an author of the studies. ''When we're thinking about
that, we're usually thinking about drone strikes or cyberattacks, which has all
these same elements. We're not usually thinking of sexual violence.''

Prosecutors say sextortion is increasingly common, with as many as 6,500
victims. It can involve hacking into victims' computers to steal sexual images
or even commandeer a webcam, then using the files to extort the targets.

More often, perpetrators use social media to coax one photograph from a victim,
then use that to demand a continual supply. A State Department employee at the
American Embassy in London was sentenced to more than four years in prison after
threatening to put sexually explicit images of women onlinee.

Law enforcement agencies acknowledge the proliferation of sextortion, but it
does not exist as a separate offense in federal or state law, nor does any
government agency maintain data on it. No academic literature is available to
educate the public or provide resources for victims. It is remote and anonymous.
It involves high-level computer intelligence, and it gives sexual predators
access to thousands of new potential victims, researchers say. And, Mr. Wittes
said, it has not been addressed appropriately.

He said one of the most alarming things about such cases was the ability of
perpetrators to scale up their assaults.

''It used to be that you couldn't walk into a place and sexually assault a large
number of people,'' he said. With a computer, he said, ''you can.''

Brookings, for example, found at least 1,397 victims in only 78 cases. In one
case, prosecutors identified ''at least eight possible minor victims'' of a
California man who had posed as a teenage girl on social media to trick real
teenage girls into sending him explicit photographs. In another, the government
refers to ''more than 100'' possible victims of one perpetrator.

Yet because sextortion is not a crime, its perpetrators are often prosecuted
under a piecemeal slate of state and federal charges, such as stalking,
extortion and computer fraud. According to Brookings, 71 percent of the cases
involved only underage victims, and virtually all adult victims were female.

Mr. Wittes said adult cases presented another problem. Cases with child victims
do not have prosecutorial impediments because child pornography laws are so
strict. But once the victim turns 18, much of that protection vanishes.

''Advocacy groups generally don't focus on the adult women,'' Mr. Wittes said.
''To me, that's the big blank spot in the whole discussion.''

According to Mary Anne Franks of the Cyber Civil Rights Initiative, victims are
especially unprotected when a crime does not involve physical interaction.

''Once you become a woman,'' she said, everything is fair game.

The Cyber Civil Rights Initiative has been instrumental in getting
non-consensual pornography, also known as revenge porn, laws passed in 31
states. But she said she was hesitant to join Mr. Wittes in a call for
legislation to specifically address sextortion, an offense she said was too
narrow and could diminish the plight of other victims.

Instead, she advocates legislation that would make the wholesale distribution of
nonconsensual explicit images illegal, regardless of how they are obtained.

''We don't need to reinvent the wheel here,'' she said.

Mr. Wittes put the biggest onus on the manufacturers of webcams, which could
make covers for lenses that a hacker could not get around. He also said people
needed to better protect themselves with stronger passwords and two-step
authentication systems that send access codes to smartphones or other devices.

''You don't think of teenagers as attractive cybersecurity targets, or for that
matter young women,'' he said. ''We have this mental assumption that things are
different online, like the same incentives wouldn't apply. But trust me, they
do.''

Follow The New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/11/us/sextortion-victims-brookings-institution.ht
ml

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 12, 2016 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Isao Tomita, Widely Considered the Father of Japanese Electronic Music, Dies at
84

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX; Makiko Inoue contributed reporting from Tokyo.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Obituary; Pg.

LENGTH: 1106 words


At the turn of the 20th century, when Claude Debussy sat down to write his
haunting piano piece ''Claire de Lune,'' he had before him little more than pen,
paper and piano.

Toward the end of the century, when Isao Tomita sat down to record the piece, he
had before him a thicket that included a Moog synthesizer, comprising (among
many other things) a 914 extended range fixed filter bank, two 904-A
voltage-controlled low-pass filters, nine 901-B oscillators, four 911 envelope
generators, five 902 voltage-controlled amplifiers, a 950 keyboard controller
and a 6401 Bode ring modulator; several tape recorders, among them an Ampex
MM-1100 16-track and a Sony TC-9040 4-track; two Sony MX-16 mixers; an AKG BX20E
Echo unit; an Eventide Clockworks Instant Phaser; two Binson Echorec 2 units;
and the electronic keyboard instrument known as a Mellotron.

Released by RCA in 1974, the resulting recording, ''Snowflakes Are Dancing,''
brought Mr. Tomita -- who died on May 5 in Tokyo, at 84, and was widely
considered the father of Japanese electronic music -- international renown.
Nominated for a Grammy Award for best classical album, the record, containing
Mr. Tomita's renditions of a string of Debussy pieces, sold hundreds of
thousands of copies, an almost unheard-of feat for a disc at least nominally
rooted in the classical world.

It also divided that world, much as the album that inspired it, ''Switched-On
Bach,'' by Walter (now Wendy) Carlos, had done on its release in 1968.

Some critics commended Mr. Tomita for the ''exhilarating glee'' of his music, as
The San Francisco Chronicle wrote in 2000, reviewing a rerelease of ''Snowflakes
Are Dancing.''

Others huffed and puffed. In 1975, discussing the release that year of Mr.
Tomita's rendition of Mussorgsky's most famous work, Jack Hiemenz wrote in The
New York Times:

''Tomita's electronic transformation of 'Pictures at an Exhibition,' like the
job he did on Debussy, will disappoint the more musically minded, though it will
just as certainly titillate the quad nuts. It's another four-ring circus,
announcing its intent at the outset by having each note of the striding
'Promenade' theme issue coyly from a different speaker -- a kind of four-point
'instant antiphony' that may well give a listener vertigo.''

Undaunted by reviews, Mr. Tomita continued his work, which was reported to have
influenced musicians around the world, among them Stevie Wonder and the Japanese
techno-pop group Yellow Magic Orchestra.

His success was all the more noteworthy in that he had had to come to terms on
his own with the inscrutable behemoth that was his chosen instrument.

Isao Tomita was born in Tokyo on April 22, 1932. He spent part of his childhood
in China, where his father, Kiyoshi, was a physician at a textile mill; the
family returned to Japan in 1939.

After World War II ended, the young Mr. Tomita became enraptured by Western
classical music, along with jazz and pop, through radio broadcasts by the United
States Army of occupation.

''I thought I was listening to music from outer space,'' he told the
English-language Japanese magazine Tokyo Weekender in 2013. ''When I was a
child, Japan was closed to Western music.''

As a student at Keio University in Tokyo, where he studied literature, he took
private lessons in piano, music theory and Western compositional technique.

He began his career as a composer for Japanese films and television; his credits
include the television cartoon known in English as ''Kimba the White Lion.''

In the late 1960s, he encountered ''Switched-On Bach.'' Where that album offered
a note-for-note recreation of Bach's music on a Moog synthesizer, Mr. Tomita was
determined to use the instrument to augment classical pieces far beyond the
composer's original intent. (And so he did: His recording of Bach's Toccata and
Fugue in D minor, for instance, includes synthesized thunderstorms.)

''For the first 20 years of my career, I was looking for some new instrument --
there have been no new instruments since Wagner,'' Mr. Tomita told The Los
Angeles Times in 1999. ''Then I discovered the synthesizer, and with that I
could create by myself the sounds I wanted to have.''

He scoured the world for one -- he could find none in Japan -- and in the early
1970s imported a Moog from the United States. Then his troubles began.

''At Customs, they asked me what this machine was,'' he recalled in an interview
with the online music magazine Resident Advisor. ''I told them that it was an
instrument, and they didn't believe me. They said, 'Then, play it.''' Mr. Tomita
continued:

''I wish it was that easy, but it takes a while to even generate something
that's not just noise, so I couldn't play it in front of them. I pulled out an
LP of 'Switched-On Bach,' which has a Moog on the cover, and they still didn't
buy it. Eventually I had to ask Moog to send over a photo that shows somebody
using a Moog synthesizer onstage.''

Then there was the daunting nature of the machine itself.

''It was hell,'' he said in the same interview. ''I felt like I just paid loads
of money for a big chunk of metal. If I can't make proper sounds, it's just
junk!

''Also, since Moog was a new kind of instrument, I didn't have a clue how it was
supposed to sound because there wasn't anything to compare it to. So I started
emulating existing sounds, such as a bell or a whistle, and went from there.''

Mr. Tomita's other recordings include electronic interpretations of Stravinsky's
''Firebird'' Suite and Holst's ''The Planets,'' both released in 1976, and of
Ravel's ''Bolero,'' released in 1980.

In later years, he staged live multimedia performances that he called ''sound
clouds'' in cities including New York and Sydney, Australia.

Mr. Tomita's death was confirmed by his family. His survivors include his wife,
Akiko; a daughter, Rie Seno; a son, Masaru; a sister, Shizue Maruyama; four
grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.

Among his best-known recent works was ''Symphony Ihatov,'' given its world
premiere in Tokyo in 2012, with the composer leading the Japan Philharmonic and
an accompanying choir.

The symphony's featured soloist was the synthesized ''diva'' Hatsune Miku, a
singing digital avatar created by the Japanese company Crypton Future Media, who
sang and danced Mr. Tomita's score.

In interviews, Mr. Tomita expressed his gratitude at being able to write for
Miku, as she is familiarly known, a cyber-celebrity whose singing was by then
garnering millions of views on YouTube.

''I had no idea that she was so popular,'' he told Tokyo Weekender. ''So I was
very pleased that she agreed to work with me.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/12/arts/music/isao-tomita-widely-considered-the-f
ather-of-japanese-electronic-music-dies-at-84.html

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 13, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Isao Tomita, 84; Combined Classical and Electronic Music

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX; Makiko Inoue contributed reporting from Tokyo.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1099 words


At the turn of the 20th century, when Claude Debussy sat down to write his
haunting piano piece ''Claire de Lune,'' he had before him little more than pen,
paper and piano.

Toward the end of the century, when Isao Tomita sat down to record the piece, he
had before him a thicket that included a Moog synthesizer, comprising (among
many other things) a 914 extended range fixed filter bank, two 904-A
voltage-controlled low-pass filters, nine 901-B oscillators, four 911 envelope
generators, five 902 voltage-controlled amplifiers, a 950 keyboard controller
and a 6401 Bode ring modulator; several tape recorders, among them an Ampex
MM-1100 16-track and a Sony TC-9040 4-track; two Sony MX-16 mixers; an AKG BX20E
Echo unit; an Eventide Clockworks Instant Phaser; two Binson Echorec 2 units;
and the electronic keyboard instrument known as a Mellotron.

Released by RCA in 1974, the resulting recording, ''Snowflakes Are Dancing,''
brought Mr. Tomita -- who died on May 5, at 84, and was widely considered the
father of Japanese electronic music -- international renown. Nominated for a
Grammy Award for best classical album, the record, containing Mr. Tomita's
renditions of a string of Debussy pieces, sold hundreds of thousands of copies,
an almost unheard-of feat for a disc at least nominally rooted in the classical
world.

It also divided that world, much as the album that inspired it, ''Switched-On
Bach,'' by Walter (now Wendy) Carlos, had done on its release in 1968.

Some critics commended Mr. Tomita for the ''exhilarating glee'' of his music, as
The San Francisco Chronicle wrote in 2000, reviewing a rerelease of ''Snowflakes
Are Dancing.''

Others huffed and puffed. In 1975, discussing the release that year of Mr.
Tomita's rendition of Mussorgsky's most famous work, Jack Hiemenz wrote in The
New York Times:

''Tomita's electronic transformation of 'Pictures at an Exhibition,' like the
job he did on Debussy, will disappoint the more musically minded, though it will
just as certainly titillate the quad nuts. It's another four-ring circus,
announcing its intent at the outset by having each note of the striding
'Promenade' theme issue coyly from a different speaker -- a kind of four-point
'instant antiphony' that may well give a listener vertigo.''

[Video: Isao Tomita's version of ''Claire de Lune." Watch on YouTube.]

Undaunted by reviews, Mr. Tomita continued his work, which was reported to have
influenced musicians around the world, among them Stevie Wonder and the Japanese
techno-pop group Yellow Magic Orchestra.

His success was all the more noteworthy in that he had had to come to terms on
his own with the inscrutable behemoth that was his chosen instrument.

Isao Tomita was born in Tokyo on April 22, 1932. He spent part of his childhood
in China, where his father, Kiyoshi, was a physician at a textile mill; the
family returned to Japan in 1939.

After World War II ended, the young Mr. Tomita became enraptured by Western
classical music, along with jazz and pop, through radio broadcasts by the United
States Army of occupation.

''I thought I was listening to music from outer space,'' he told the
English-language Japanese magazine Tokyo Weekender in 2013. ''When I was a
child, Japan was closed to Western music.''

As a student at Keio University in Tokyo, where he studied literature, he took
private lessons in piano, music theory and Western compositional technique.

He began his career as a composer for Japanese films and television; his credits
include the television cartoon known in English as ''Kimba the White Lion.''

In the late 1960s, he encountered ''Switched-On Bach.'' Where that album offered
a note-for-note recreation of Bach's music on a Moog synthesizer, Mr. Tomita was
determined to use the instrument to augment classical pieces far beyond the
composer's original intent.

''For the first 20 years of my career, I was looking for some new instrument --
there have been no new instruments since Wagner,'' Mr. Tomita told The Los
Angeles Times in 1999. ''Then I discovered the synthesizer, and with that I
could create by myself the sounds I wanted to have.''

He scoured the world for one -- he could find none in Japan -- and in the early
1970s imported a Moog from the United States. Then his troubles began.

''At Customs, they asked me what this machine was,'' he recalled in an interview
with the online music magazine Resident Advisor. ''I told them that it was an
instrument, and they didn't believe me. They said, 'Then, play it.''' Mr. Tomita
continued:

''I wish it was that easy, but it takes a while to even generate something
that's not just noise, so I couldn't play it in front of them. I pulled out an
LP of 'Switched-On Bach,' which has a Moog on the cover, and they still didn't
buy it. Eventually I had to ask Moog to send over a photo that shows somebody
using a Moog synthesizer onstage.''

Then there was the daunting nature of the machine itself.

''It was hell,'' he said in the same interview. ''I felt like I just paid loads
of money for a big chunk of metal. If I can't make proper sounds, it's just
junk!

''Also, since Moog was a new kind of instrument, I didn't have a clue how it was
supposed to sound because there wasn't anything to compare it to. So I started
emulating existing sounds, such as a bell or a whistle, and went from there.''

Mr. Tomita's other recordings include electronic interpretations of Stravinsky's
''Firebird'' Suite and Holst's ''The Planets,'' both released in 1976, and of
Ravel's ''Bolero,'' released in 1980.

In later years, he staged live multimedia performances that he called ''sound
clouds'' in cities including New York and Sydney, Australia.

Mr. Tomita's death, in Tokyo, was confirmed by his family. His survivors include
his wife, Akiko; a daughter, Rie Seno; a son, Masaru; a sister, Shizue Maruyama;
four grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.

Among his best-known recent works was ''Symphony Ihatov,'' given its world
premiere in Tokyo in 2012, with the composer leading the Japan Philharmonic and
an accompanying choir.

The symphony's featured soloist was the synthesized ''diva'' Hatsune Miku, a
singing digital avatar created by the Japanese company Crypton Future Media, who
sang and danced Mr. Tomita's score.

In interviews, Mr. Tomita expressed his gratitude at being able to write for
Miku, as she is familiarly known, a cyber-celebrity whose singing was by then
garnering millions of views on YouTube.

''I had no idea that she was so popular,'' he told Tokyo Weekender. ''So I was
very pleased that she agreed to work with me.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/12/arts/music/isao-tomita-widely-considered-the-f
ather-of-japanese-electronic-music-dies-at-84.html

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Isao Tomita in his studio in Tokyo in 1976. His album
''Snowflakes Are Dancing'' was nominated for a Grammy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED
PRESS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 14, 2016 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Bank Cybersecurity Demands United Effort

BYLINE: By DOMINIC ELLIOTT and SARAH HURST.

Dominic Elliott and Sarah Hurst are columnists at Reuters Breakingviews. For
more independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg.

LENGTH: 397 words


Banks that have been pooling resources on blockchain technology should apply
their camaraderie in a different field: computer security.

The hacking of an unnamed commercial lender, revealed by the financial messaging
system Swift on Thursday, came after an $81 million digital heist from
Bangladesh's central bank in February. An industry utility -- or at least
better-coordinated defenses -- is needed.

Increased regulatory requirements and low interest rates, both legacies of the
financial crisis of the last decade, have made it hard for banks to make an
economic return. The distributed ledger technology that underpins bitcoin may
help cut industry costs. That's why more than 40 banks have joined the
blockchain development group R3.

Cybersecurity should be next on the list. It's likely to be banks' biggest cost
in terms of financial crime prevention this year and next, according to
LexisNexis Risk Solutions. Weak digital defenses might prompt a credit rating
downgrade, says Standard & Poor's.

Lenders may feel worried about sharing confidential data with rivals. But the
aviation industry, long teetering on the edge of profitability, improved
efficiency by sharing accident information via black box technology. And greater
teamwork would help keep tabs on would-be criminals. Companies' own employees
represent a huge threat: the business investigations company Kroll said in its
latest annual global fraud report that insiders were 81 percent of the
wrongdoers. A shared database of suspects might be a safeguard.

Regulators and governments could play a bigger role, too. The European Central
Bank's plan for a database of serious incidents, as reported by the Financial
Times on Thursday, appears to be no more than a first step. The United States
Financial Services Information Sharing and Analysis Center has had limited
success: only 5 percent of the digital threats that American Express finds are
the subject of warnings from other institutions, the company's chief executive,
Kenneth Chenault, said last year.

But lenders right now seem to be doing too little. Europe's private sector-led
Cyber Defense Alliance consists of just four banks. Financial institutions have
demonstrated an unusual level of esprit de corps when it comes to new
technology. Given that digital security could hit their finances more painfully,
cooperation makes even more sense.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/14/business/dealbook/computer-security-for-banks-
demands-a-united-effort.html

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 14, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Networks Start Spring Pruning

BYLINE: By JEREMY EGNER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 665 words


The bloodletting has begun.

Next week is the beginning of television networks' annual upfront presentations,
where they wine, dine and charm advertisers in hopes of enticing them to buy
time for their fall offerings. For the rest of us, the events give a first look
at which new and returning series the networks and cable channels will show this
fall.

Which also means learning which shows won't be back.

So it went on Thursday, when networks took the ax to a dozen series, from
newcomers both acclaimed (''The Grinder'') and unloved (''Bordertown'') by
critics, to fan favorites like ''Castle, ''Agent Carter'' and ''Nashville.''
Another popular new show, ''Supergirl,'' will move from CBS to CW, and, after
more than 15 years, the ''CSI'' era was officially closed after the demise of
''CSI: Cyber,'' the show's remaining spinoff.

On Friday, NBC added five more shows to the reject pile, including the drama
''Game of Silence,'' which only debuted last month, and ''Telenovela,'' a soap
spoof starring Eva Longoria.

Here's a look at the canceled shows by network.

ABC

ABC led with six shows shuttered, most notably the comic crime drama ''Castle,''
which had originally secured a ninth season. Its surprise cancellation came
after the contract of one of its stars, Stana Katic, wasn't renewed. (Tamala
Jones also left.) ''Your devotion to our show carried us for these unforgettable
eight seasons,'' Ms. Katic posted in a note to fans on Twitter on Friday
morning.

Also done is ''Nashville,'' the country music drama starring Connie Britton. The
series, which debuted in 2012, was low-rated but had its advocates, though it
had become more soapy recently.

''The Muppets,'' one of ABC's most-promoted new shows last fall, will not
return. Neither will the series ''Agent Carter,'' based on a Marvel Comics
character and set during World War II. ABC also ended the musical comedy
''Galavant'' and the missing-child drama ''The Family,'' which join the
midseason cancellations of ''Blood and Oil,'' ''Wicked City'' and ''Of Kings and
Prophets.''

One bright spot: John Ridley's low-rated but widely acclaimed ''American Crime''
will return for a third season.

CBS

CBS's only cancellation was symbolic: ''CSI: Cyber,'' a low-rated spinoff that
was the last active series in a franchise that debuted in October 2000. CBS also
moved ''Supergirl'' to CW. That network, home of other hero series like ''The
Flash,'' ''Arrow'' and ''Legends of Tomorrow,'' is jointly owned by CBS and
Warner Bros., which produces ''Supergirl.''

CW will not bring back the thriller ''Containment,'' about an epidemic.

Fox

Fox canceled ''The Grinder,'' with Rob Lowe, and ''Grandfathered,'' with John
Stamos, two new sitcoms starring TV heavyweights. ''The Grinder'' was popular
among critics, but its ratings remained low throughout its first season. ''I'm
thrilled to have 22 episodes that were as acclaimed as they were,'' Mr. Lowe
said on Twitter on Thursday night.

And there is still Grindr. So there's that. #NotAllBadNews -- Rob Lowe
(@RobLowe) May 12, 2016

Fox also killed ''Cooper Barrett's Guide to Surviving Life'' and ''Bordertown,''
an animated series whose executive producer was Seth MacFarlane.

NBC

On Friday, NBC canceled two new dramas: ''Heartbeat,'' which debuted in March,
and ''Game of Silence,'' which had its premiere in April. Also ending are the
new comedies ''Telenovela'' and ''Crowded,'' a sitcom about empty nesters played
by Patrick Warburton and Carrie Preston. NBC also canceled ''Undateable,'' a
sitcom created by Bill Lawrence (''Scrubs'') that debuted in 2014. Mr. Lawrence
wrote on Twitter that he planned to try to keep the show going on another outlet
-- ''Cougar Town,'' his previous sitcom, began on ABC but finished its run on
TBS.

Earlier this season, NBC canceled ''Best Time Ever With Neil Patrick Harris,''
''Heroes Reborn,'' ''The Player'' and ''Truth Be Told.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/14/arts/television/castle-nashville-and-csi-spino
ff-are-among-12-canceled-tv-shows.html

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stana Katic and Nathan Fillion in ''Castle,'' which was
canceled after eight seasons on ABC. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC MCCANDLESS/ABC)
 Sing a sad song: Will Chase and Connie Britton of ''Nashville.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY
MARK LEVINE/ABC)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 16, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

What to Expect From the Broadcast Networks This Coming Season

BYLINE: By JOHN KOBLIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; 2016 TV UPFRONTS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 998 words


The annual television upfront presentations for advertisers begin Monday, in
which the broadcast networks will introduce new shows along with two newish
entertainment presidents (Glenn Geller at CBS, who got his job last year; and
ABC's Channing Dungey, who took over in February). Here's a rundown of each
network's previous season, and what will be promoted this week.

CBS

WHAT'S WORKING Business as usual here: CBS was the most-watched network for the
13th time in the last 14 years -- by as wide a margin as nearly three million
viewers -- and finished on top for the 18-to-49-year-old demographic as well,
which is important to advertisers. ''The Big Bang Theory,'' in its ninth season,
was once again the No. 1 comedy on TV, and ''NCIS'' was the most-viewed drama
for the seventh consecutive year. Other perennials like ''Blue Bloods,''
''Criminal Minds'' and ''Survivor'' still perform well.

WHAT'S NOT  Though the network continues to ride its thoroughbreds, it has been
a few years since it has introduced a meaningful hit. ''CSI: Cyber,'' the last
spinoff from that franchise, was canceled after two sluggish seasons. The comedy
''Angel From Hell'' was canceled and other comedic efforts fizzled, beyond a
solid first season from ''Life in Pieces.'' And though ''Supergirl'' started off
strong, its viewership has declined and now the show will be shuffled over to
CBS's cousin network, the CW.

WHAT TO LOOK FOR THIS WEEK CBS will introduce new comedies with two stars (Kevin
James in ''Kevin Can Wait'' and Matt LeBlanc in ''Man With a Plan'') and a few
reboots: ''MacGyver,'' based on the 1980s show, and ''Training Day,'' based on
the 2001 movie. The network will also promote its ''Star Trek'' revival, which
is being devised for its stand-alone app, CBS All Access.

FOX

WHAT'S WORKING ''Empire'' continues to deliver. Though it slowed a bit in its
second season, it will finish as the No. 1 show among adults under 50. The
six-episode run of ''The X-Files'' turned out to be surprisingly muscular. It
brought in meaningful ratings, and Fox executives are hopeful that there will be
plenty more episodes going forward. Fox also managed to climb out of the
basement among the big four networks and will finish in third place in the
18-to-49 demographic.

WHAT'S NOT Two big comedy debuts -- ''The Grinder'' and ''Grandfathered'' --
received nice reviews but were canceled after poor ratings. ''Minority Report''
was likewise let go after one year. And even if ''Scream Queens'' is popular
among a younger audience and will get a second season, it did not make any
lasting impression on the ratings, particularly considering the lengthy and
expensive marketing blitz it received.

WHAT TO LOOK FOR THIS WEEK With ''American Idol'' shutting down, Fox is going to
have a lot of hours to fill, and it plans on doing it with reboot mania.
Projects include reboots for ''24,'' ''Prison Break,'' ''Lethal Weapon'' and
''The Exorcist.'' Fox will also have another show, ''Star,'' from Lee Daniels,
the creator of ''Empire.'' And there will be one surefire ratings boon that will
be talked up at its presentation: Fox will broadcast the Super Bowl in February.

ABC

WHAT'S WORKING ABC's lineup of comedies with diverse casts like ''black-ish''
and ''Fresh Off the Boat'' continues to give the network an identity. Thursday
night remains strong, thanks to Shonda Rhimes, even if ''How to Get Away With
Murder'' and ''Scandal'' showed signs of wear and tear this year. ''Quantico''
had a solid debut and qualifies as the network's standout first-year show.

WHAT'S NOT ABC said goodbye to Paul Lee, its entertainment president, in
February. The network experienced the biggest losses in viewers and in the
18-to-49 demographic among the networks (percentage drops of 14 percent and 18
percent). It canceled several new shows like ''Wicked City'' (the first network
show to be axed this season), ''The Muppets'' (one of the season's biggest
flops) and the veteran series ''Castle'' and ''Nashville.''

WHAT TO LOOK FOR THIS WEEK ABC will introduce Ms. Dungey, the first black
network president. Ms. Dungey's new lineup will include the Kiefer Sutherland
drama ''Designated Survivor,'' about a low-level United States cabinet member
who takes over the presidency after a large-scale attack. ABC will also pick up
a period drama from Ms. Rhimes, ''Still Star-Crossed,'' about the Montagues and
the Capulets after the deaths of Romeo and Juliet.

NBC

WHAT'S WORKING For the first time in a few years, quite a bit. In what was an
otherwise anemic year for rookie network shows, ''Blindspot'' was the clear
winner among the first-year class. Dick Wolf's Chicago-based franchise continues
to prosper, and ''Little Big Shots'' was the breakout reality hit of the year.
''The Voice'' remains a very strong performer and ''The Wiz Live!'' was a win
for the network's annual live musical series. Over all, if CBS had not had the
Super Bowl, NBC would have finished the year in first place in the 18-to-49
demographic.

WHAT'S NOT The Neil Patrick Harris variety show, ''Best Time Ever,'' was an
expensive flop. Though the network has shown progress with the critically
praised ''Superstore'' and ''The Carmichael Show,'' the comedy cupboard is
otherwise empty. The Eva Longoria show ''Telenovela'' did not work, nor did a
reboot, ''Heroes: Reborn.''

WHAT TO LOOK FOR THIS WEEK This year's upfront presentation will include all of
NBCUniversal's properties, not just the broadcast network's. But NBC is trying
to bring its comedy rolls back to life with ''The Good Place,'' a show from the
''Parks and Recreation'' co-creator Michael Schur starring Ted Danson, and
''Great News,'' produced by Tina Fey. The network has high hopes for
''Timeless,'' a time-travel thriller, and the costly drama ''Emerald City.''
''The Celebrity Apprentice'' will return without Donald J. Trump: Arnold
Schwarzenegger is the new host. Mr. Wolf's ''Chicago Justice'' will represent
his fifth show in NBC's lineup.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/16/business/media/last-season-and-next-at-the-net
works.html

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, Akash Vukoti in an episode of ''Little Big Shots'' on
NBC. Right, Brittany O'Grady, Queen Latifah and Jude Demorest in ''Star,'' a Fox
series by Lee Daniels, the creator of ''Empire.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANNY FELD/NBC

 FOX)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (News)

                             May 18, 2016 Wednesday

Morning Agenda: A Tale of Two Silicon Valleys

BYLINE: AMIE TSANG

LENGTH: 2112 words



HIGHLIGHT: I.M.F. Takes Firmer Stand Favoring Relief for Greek Debt | Bank of
America Called &#8216;Bro&#8217;s Club&#8217; in Bias Suit


 A TALE OF TWO SILICON VALLEYS  |  Lending Club's implosion is a tale of an
Internet unicorn, valued at more than $8 billion at its initial public offering,
grasping for growth and cutting corners. But it is also a tale about the good
that an online lender can do,

Lending Club hit a wall when it disclosed that it had fired Renaud Laplanche,
its founder and chief executive, for having failed to properly address $22
million in loans that were sold under false credentials to the investment bank
Jefferies. Lending Club also disclosed that Mr. Laplanche may have secretly
invested in a fund that Lending Club had a position in.

He is now history, but Lending Club's stock has plummeted, losing more than $1
billion in value. Wall Street is nervous and the business model has a few snags.

Lenders on online marketplaces are not average Joes, but hedge funds and other
sophisticated parties aiming to extend credit to borrowers who might be turned
away by a big bank or find the interest rates there prohibitive. So what is
called peer-to-peer lending is really business-to-people.

Lending Club's disclosures have been devastating because there will be a
criminal inquiry and Lending Club's lenders may back away from dealing with the
site because of a lack of trust.

A study by professors at Columbia University and Fordham has examined the effect
of an arcane opinion issued last year by the United States Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit, which called into question whether loans originated by
Lending Club violated usury laws.

Most states have usury laws, which cap the rate of interest that can be charged.
South Dakota and Utah, among others, do not have this cap, which is why credit
cards are issued from those states - the state where the loan originates is
where the applicable usury law holds sway. Then the Second Circuit ruled that
when a loan was issued in one state but sold in another state to someone other
than a bank, the second state's usury law holds sway. This meant that high
interest rate loans might be illegal.

Under this ruling, it was easy to predict that the worst borrowers would no
longer get loan offers on the peer-to-peer sites, because lenders would be
concerned that they could not resell the loans.

And the authors of the study did find that lending to these vulnerable borrowers
simply stopped. The case is on appeal to the Supreme Court.

The central question is, if you cap interest rates, are you shutting off credit
to people who need it most? The study found that peer-to-peer lenders provided a
valuable service. Instead of getting a credit card loan that charged 20 percent
interest, low-income borrowers were paying lower rates thanks to the
availability of this credit.

Yes, Lending Club deserves more scrutiny, Mr. Davidoff Solomon writes. But
marketplace lenders are not banks, they do not have the same central importance
and they are not too big to fail. So far, they are doing more good for consumers
than bad.

I.M.F. TAKES FIRMER STAND FAVORING RELIEF FOR GREEK DEBT  |  The International
Monetary Fund has increased demands for Greek debt relief,
 Its stance sets up another potential standoff with creditors over the country's
bailout and threatens to create more political and economic uncertainty.

The fund is adamant that Greece will never return to growth if its debt burden
is not sustainable, while Germany is leaning on Greece to stick with its
austerity commitments.

The I.M.F. has taken a firmer stand ahead of a meeting of eurozone finance
ministers next week, outlining specific demands on the cost and the timing of
the debt payments, according to three people who spoke on condition of
anonymity. In a presentation last week, it recommended that Greece's interest
payments to eurozone creditors would be fixed for up to 40 years at the current
rate of 1.5 percent. The payments would also be deferred for even longer.

This leaves Germany in a difficult position. If it gives too much, Chancellor
Angela Merkel's government will face pressure from the political far right for
requiring taxpayers to bear more of the burden for Greece's past profligacy. If
it gives too little, the government might not receive the support of the I.M.F.
for the bailout, which many German lawmakers have made a condition of further
support for Greece.

Greece needs the next disbursement of bailout money to make billions of dollars
of debt payments through July. And the stakes have been raised by a renewed wave
of terrorism, a migrant crisis and uncertainty over whether Britain will stay in
the European Union.

The I.M.F.'s plan will be a tough sell, with some European officials playing up
signs that Greece is bottoming out. "There is a very strong belief in Europe
that the I.M.F. is essentially cooking the numbers by being overly pessimistic
about political and economic developments in Greece in order to strong-arm
Northern Europe into providing more generous debt relief," said Mujtaba Rahman,
the head of the Europe practice for the Eurasia Group.

ON THE AGENDA   |  Paypal's analyst day starts at 11:30 a.m. The Financial
Services Committee of the House of Representatives will hold a hearing on the
United States Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's proposed rule on
arbitration at 2 p.m. Minutes from the April policy-setting Federal Open Market
Committee will be published by the Federal Reserve at 2 p.m.

BANK OF AMERICA CALLED 'BRO'S CLUB' IN BIAS SUIT  |  Bank of America is being
sued by a Megan Messina, a managing director who said that the company treated
women in her position like "second-class citizens" and paid them substantially
less than their male counterparts,
Bloomberg reports.

Ms. Messina detailed the pay of a dozen colleagues and accused the bank of
front-running, lying to customers and manipulating prices. She claimed that when
she complained about the "unlawful, unethical and improper practices," she was
placed on forced leave and barred from returning to her office.

"We take all allegations of inappropriate behavior seriously and investigate
them thoroughly," Bill Halldin, a spokesman for Bank of America, said.

Ms. Messina said that from the moment she was promoted to managing director, her
male supervisor "made it clear that she was not welcome within his subordinate
'bro's club' of all-male sycophants." She claimed that he consistently excluded
her from emails, meetings, dinners and gatherings with the 10 men he oversaw.

According to her complaint, at their first conversation after her promotion, her
supervisor told her, "I don't understand what you do."

A person familiar with the matter told Bloomberg that federal prosecutors in
North Carolina have been investigating whether traders at the bank engaged in
front-running, or trading ahead of client orders. Ms. Messina described similar
activities that occurred more recently and said she was retaliated against when
she complained to her supervisors.

This lawsuit comes after a series of claims about bias on Wall Street. Citigroup
and Morgan Stanley have agreed to multimillion-dollar settlements in the last
decade. A Wall Street Journal analysis of the gender pay gap found that of the
10 major occupation groups where women's earnings lagged the most, five were in
finance.

|  Contact amie.tsang@nytimes.com

Mergers & Acquisitions »

Shareholders to Vote in July on London Stock Exchange-Deutsche Börse Merger  |
The question of approving the move would come after Britons cast ballots in June
on whether to leave the European Union.
NYT »

Midea Group of China Makes Bid for German Robot Maker  |  Midea Group, a home
appliance maker, announced that it planned to begin a takeover bid for Kuka in a
deal that valued the German robot maker at about $5 billion.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

In Time of Turmoil, Pandora Considers Selling Itself  |  A costly acquisition,
an abrupt leadership change and a lack of song rights suggest the company is
floundering. Its rivals, Spotify and SiriusXM, could make sense as partners,
Jennifer Saba writes in Breakingviews.
NYT » | Activist Pushes Pandora to Put Itself Back on the Block 9:20 PM

Investcorp Said to Explore Sale of Promotional Product Maker   |  Investcorp
Bank is exploring a sale of Polyconcept, the world's largest supplier of
promotional products, Reuters reports, citing people familiar with the matter.
Investcorp, based in Bahrain, is hoping the deal will value the company at more
than $1.3 billion, including debt.
REUTERS

HC2 Makes $1 Billion Offer for U.S. Grain Trader  |  HC2 Holdings, the
investment company run by the former hedge fund manager Philip Falcone, made an
unsolicited $1 billion takeover offer for the American grain merchant and
ethanol producer The Andersons.
BLOOMBERG

INVESTMENT BANKING »

Former Citigroup Chief Gets Back to His Finance Roots  |  Vikram S. Pandit, the
former chief of Citigroup, has started a new company with an investment firm
backed by Comcast that will seek big stakes in more mature financial services
companies, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing people familiar with the
matter.

THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

Britain Says It's Committed to Sale of Lloyds Stake  |  The economic secretary
to the Treasury said the government, which has a 9.2 percent stake in Lloyds
Banking Group, would offer some of its holdings to retail investors this year.
NYT »

Goldman Sachs Asset Management May Exit Australia Equities Business   |  Goldman
Sachs Asset Management is considering selling its Australian equities and fixed
income businesses, Reuters reports, citing people familiar with the plans.
REUTERS

Perella Weinberg Adds Susan Schwab as Adviser   |  Perella Weinberg Partners
added the former United States trade representative Susan C. Schwab to its
advisory board.
BLOOMBERG

Jefferies Said to Hire Credit Suisse Technology Bankers   |  The Jefferies Group
hired five senior Credit Suisse bankers as part of an effort to expand its
investment banking technology business from San Francisco, Bloomberg reports,
citing a person with knowledge of the moves.
BLOOMBERG

I.P.O./OFFERINGS »

Hotel Lotte of South Korea Said to Plan $4.9 Billion I.P.O.   |  Hotel Lotte
plans a share sale worth up to $4.85 billion next month in what would be the
world's biggest initial public offering since late last year, Reuters reports,
citing unidentified people.
REUTERS

VENTURE CAPITAL »

Food Delivery Start-Ups Head for Shakeout as Venture Money Slows  |  Food
delivery companies are disappearing in India, funding for food delivery
start-ups in Europe fell more than 90 percent in the first quarter of this year,
and once-celebrated companies in the United States are closing too.
BLOOMBERG

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

Housing Agency Plans Mortgage Sale Changes After Criticism  |  The new rules
would come after months of criticism that the loan sale program in America has
benefited private equity firms and hedge funds at the expense of strapped
borrowers.
NYT » | U.S. Housing Starts and Building Permits Increase in April

Big Law Firms See Strongest Revenue Gains Since '08, Survey Finds  |  Revenue
rose 5.8 percent in the first quarter of 2016 from a year ago, Citigroup's Law
Firm Group said.
NYT »

Staples and Office Depot Lost on All Major Points in Antitrust Case   |  The
companies lost on all the critical issues in their court battle with government
antitrust regulators and their decision not to present defense evidence appears
to have hurt their case, court records show.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

Federal Reserve Presidents Expect at Least Two Rate Increases in 2016  |  Dennis
P. Lockhart, the Atlanta Fed president, and John C. Williams, the president of
the San Francisco, said at least two interest rate increases may be warranted
this year as the economy expands and inflation picks up.
BLOOMBERG

JPMorgan Said to Reduce Access to Swift   |  JPMorgan Chase has limited some
employees' access to the Swift messaging service amid questions about security
breaches at a pair of Asian banks, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing
people familiar with the matter.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

S.E.C. Says Cyber Security the Biggest Risk to the Financial System  |  The
United States Securities and Exchange Commission has found some major exchanges,
dark pools and clearing houses did not have cyber policies in place that matched
the sort of risks they faced, said Mary Jo White, the chairwoman of the S.E.C.
REUTERS

A Growth Rate Weighed Down by Inaction  |  Unless business and government do
something to improve the economy's capability, the United States will be stuck
with anemic rates of growth, Eduardo Porter writes in Economic Scene.
Economic Scene »

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 2, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rappers' Song on Credit Card Scheme Tells Broader Tale, Prosecutors Say

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1115 words


Pop Out Boyz, a rap collective from Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, took their
lyrics from real life when they released a single this spring all about the
material rewards of a crime not often mentioned in urban pop music -- credit
card fraud, prosecutors said.

The song, titled ''For a Scammer,'' was rooted in experience, the prosecutors
said. Members of the group and their associates have been indicted in Manhattan
on grand larceny charges, accused of stealing more than $250,000 worth of luxury
goods from Barneys and Saks Fifth Avenue over the last year.

The song's chorus boasts, ''I'm cracking cards 'cause I'm a scammer,'' using a
street term for card fraud. At one point, one of the vocalists raps, ''Watch the
money do a back flip, early morning up at Saks Fifth, you see it, you want it,
you have it.''

The case reflects a broader trend in New York City, the Manhattan district
attorney's office said. As street crime and drug dealing have declined over the
last two decades, there has been a surge in identity theft and credit card
fraud, and these crimes are increasingly being committed by relatively
unsophisticated young adults from working-class homes, the police and
prosecutors said.

''Credit card fraud in Brooklyn is becoming a big issue,'' said Capt.
Christopher Flanagan, the commander of the Financial Crimes Task Force for the
New York Police Department. ''The cards are easier to get now with the
development of some of these dark websites, and as one person learns how to
commit a fraud, they spread that knowledge to others.''

The websites that the Pop Out Boyz are accused of using had names like
Uniccshop, Joker's Stash and Rescator, and they peddle data from a steady stream
of security breaches at retailers, hotels and other businesses. A single card
number can go for $35 to $150, though some cut-rate sites sell them for as
little as a dollar, security experts and the police said.

''You don't need to be a criminal mastermind to pull this off; it's not that
hard to get the numbers,'' said Gary Shiffman, an economist specializing in
illicit online markets who is the founder of Giant Oak, a data analytics
company.

A decade ago, such stolen card information was traded on shadowy forums on the
dark web, accessible only through routing programs that hid a person's identity
and location.

But the sites have evolved and resemble other online retailers, featuring a
shopping cart, customer service and a checkout process, said Damon McCoy, an
assistant professor at New York University's Tandon School of Engineering who
researches the sites.

Once registered, the customer can search for card numbers by bank, by ZIP code,
by credit limit and by the length of time since the information was stolen. Some
sites even have loyalty programs, frequent-buyer discounts and money-back
guarantees, Mr. McCoy said.

Adnan Baykal, the chief technical adviser at the Global Cyber Alliance, a
nonprofit group, said law enforcement officials and banks can do little to shut
down the sites. Many mask their locations and can be connected to only on the
dark web. Others have multiple entry points on the internet, so when one is shut
down, the owners can quickly switch to another.

Cyrus R. Vance Jr., the Manhattan district attorney, has made internet crime and
fraud a major focus of his administration, winning convictions in more than a
dozen similar cases. He has said one-quarter of the felony prosecutions by his
office now involve internet crime or identity theft.

The police said most of the 39 people arrested in the Pop Out Boyz case grew up
together in the neighborhood around the Raymond Bush Playground at Madison
Street and Marcus Garvey Boulevard. Three were rappers in the Pop Out Boyz, who
performed at Brooklyn nightclubs, and several others were part of the group's
entourage. Another defendant, Larry Dathan, rapped under the moniker Big B'z.

Prosecutors said a core group of 11 defendants bought card numbers from at least
five websites, starting in May 2015, and shared them in emails and texts with
one another. Several had also bought encoding machines and other equipment that
they are accused of using to manufacture forged cards.

The group recruited friends to shop at Barneys and Saks to buy luxury clothing
and accessories -- high-end shoes, Balmain jeans, Celine and Goyard handbags.
Prosecutors said the group made 275 purchases at Barneys alone over 55 days,
walking off with $258,000 worth of goods. Saks lost $11,000 worth of merchandise
in two months. The group used more than 2,000 stolen credit card numbers from
banks in France, Canada, Germany and Dubai, the police said.

Most of the people in the group of 39, many of whom were arrested on April 26,
were in their late teens and early 20s. One of the directors of the group, the
prosecutors said, was Anthony McKoy, 21, who raps under the name Ant Stay
Maccin. A high school graduate, he lives with his parents on Throop Avenue in
Bedford-Stuyvesant. His mother works for Gap, his father for a trucking company.

Mr. McKoy has pleaded not guilty to the charges, his lawyer, Michael Fineman,
said. But prosecutors said he played a key role, supplying stolen card numbers
to others, manufacturing cards and even making $4,000 in purchases at Barneys
and Saks himself. An embosser and encoding machine were found in his home, along
with a gun, prosecutors said.

In May 2015, Mr. McKoy started posting photos of himself holding wads of $100
bills on his Facebook page. The page also featured the Pop Out Boyz logo and
concert posters.

One of the most prolific shoppers in the group, prosecutors said, was Kaishaun
Trisvan, who also pleaded not guilty. Mr. Trisvan, 21, lives with his mother,
who works in the radiology department at Lenox Hill Hospital, his lawyer said in
court. He graduated from high school and had no criminal record.

Yet prosecutors said Mr. Trisvan had made more than 35 trips to Barneys,
spending $44,000. And they said the police had found 120 forged cards at his
house and $3,315 in cash.

His lawyer, Eugene Conway, did not return telephone calls seeking comment.

It is a sign of the times, investigators said, that some of the defendants in
their 30s indicted in the Pop Out Boyz case have records for drug crimes and
robberies but that most of the defendants in their teens and 20s either have no
criminal record or have been arrested only for financial crimes.

''These kids have grown up with computers,'' said Lt. Timothy Fenfert, who leads
the Police Department's Special Fraud Squad in Brooklyn. ''They have been
downloading movies and music since they were 10 years old, so it's not much of a
leap to download credit card numbers.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/02/nyregion/rappers-based-lyrics-on-their-credit-
card-fraud-prosecutors-say.html

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Members of the Brooklyn rap group Pop Out Boyz and their
associates in court on April 26. They are accused of stealing over $250,000
worth of luxury goods from Barneys and Saks Fifth Avenue. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEC
TABAK)
Items seized during a raid on associates of the Pop Out Boyz. As street crime
and drug dealing have declined over the last two decades, identity theft and
credit card fraud have surged, the Manhattan district attorney's office said.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY NEW YORK POLICE DEPARTMENT)
 Anthony McKoy, 21, posted photos of himself with cash on Facebook.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 4, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A White House Fortress?

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 76 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Secret Service Dreams of a (14-Foot, Spear-Tipped) Picket Fence'' (White
House Letter, May 30):

Rather than erecting an iron fence, so evocative of a fortress mentality, why
not install a high-tech barrier, drawing on cyber, laser, sonic or light
technology?

A fence of this nature would permit unimpeded views of the White House, while
displaying the country's pre-eminence in state-of-the-art security measures.

DON J. COHN

Brooklyn




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/04/opinion/a-white-house-fortress.html

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 5, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kate Hadley, Sumon Dantiki

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 326 words


Alice Kathleen Hadley, a daughter of Ann Simon Hadley and Stephen J. Hadley of
Washington, was married June 4 to Sumon Srinivas Dantiki, the son of Vani
Dantiki and Sudhakar Dantiki of Bangalore, India. Kenneth M. Karas, a judge of
the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, for whom
the groom was a law clerk, officiated at the Hay-Adams hotel in Washington.

On April 17, Kypa Bharath Sarma, a Hindu priest, performed a Hindu ceremony for
the couple at the Palm Meadows Clubhouse, a private club in Bangalore, India.

The bride, 29, is known as Kate. She works in Washington as an assistant general
counsel in the Office of the United States Trade Representative. She graduated
from Stanford and received a law degree from Yale.

Her father is a founder of RiceHadleyGates, an international strategic
consulting firm in Washington. He was the national security adviser to President
George W. Bush from 2004 to 2008. Her mother is an assistant United States
attorney in the Appellate Division of the United States Attorney's Office for
the District of Columbia.

The groom, 33, works in Washington as a trial lawyer specializing in cyber
crimes, and as a policy adviser for the United States Department of Justice. He
is also an adjunct professor of law at Georgetown. He graduated from the
University of Michigan and received a law degree from Yale. He was a Fulbright
scholar studying international law at McGill University in Montreal from
2004-05.

His father, who worked in Bangalore, retired as a managing director for the Akzo
Nobel Corporation, an international paints and coatings company with
headquarters in Amsterdam.

The couple met in 2011 while working at the Department of Justice. They
reconnected two years later in New Haven, where the groom was a clerk for Judge
José A. Cabranes of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit,
and the bride was finishing her third year of law school at Yale.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/05/fashion/weddings/kate-hadley-sumon-dantiki.htm
l

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY NYT)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         June 7, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

The Metallic Muse: Fashion's Sci-Fi Obsession;
Sign of the Times

BYLINE: MICHAEL ROCK

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; fashion

LENGTH: 1717 words



HIGHLIGHT: From metal-clad runway models to video-game heroines as muses, the
future is more current than ever.


Not since Goldfinger ordered the gilt body of his double-crossing gal pal dumped
in James Bond's bed has the metalized body had such a cultural moment. The
intergalactic sheen of the inorganic seems omnipresent, tinging everything from
eyes, lips and nails to gilded temporary tattoos, cutaneous body adornments, to
even the most ubiquitous handheld device, the rose gold iPhone 6s. Metal-mania
may have reached a saturation point at the recent Met Gala, where glittering
guests were greeted by a phalanx of chrome-helmeted, silver-lashed cyber-models.
Not to be outdone, many of the partiers - resplendent in spangled Balmain
spacesuits, shiny ear cuffs and chromed accouterments - seemed on the verge of
some metallurgic transmogrification themselves.

If the Met Gala was its apotheosis, the origin point of the precious metal
movement occurred backstage in Milan last fall. Fresh from the unveiling of her
gold-leaf Haunted House at the new Fondazione Prada, Miuccia Prada exhorted her
team to plate her models' lips in an eerie yellow-gold powder that went on to
become the look of the season - a surreal intersection of Klimt and Kubrick.
[Prada is a client of the author.] Moving on to Paris, Maison Margiela amped up
the effect with silvered eyes. After several seasons where makeup on the runway
evoked some idealized image of dewy naturalism, the metallic appliqué exuded a
molten heft that was unabashedly sci-fi. The result was uncanny and alien: part
"Barbarella," part "Blade Runner," part Ziggy Stardust. With so much attention
focused on our virtual selves - the use of emails, texts, posts and Snapchats -
this emergence of the metalized body seems to reassert the physical in the face
of digital dissolution. Metal may be inherently inhuman, the uneffaced index of
industrialization, but at least it's tangible.

Simultaneously, this plating of the skin triggers our conflicted relationship
with machines. And technology. And femininity. And sex. And power. And the
future. The co-mingling of flesh and metal agitates an underlying contemporary
neurosis: Where does the body stop and the machine take over? Fashion occupies
that space at the edge of the body, and "the fetishism that succumbs to the sex
appeal of the inorganic," the German cultural theorist Walter Benjamin famously
observed, "is [fashion's] vital nerve." We want what we're not. And for
millennia, the cold, hard impenetrability of metal has served as the
counterpoint of supple flesh. Metals may be our most ancient obsession - they
name our prehistories after all - but this moment of techno-fetishism looks
decidedly forward. The metallic is still our most explicit expression of the
futuristic: Steel nails evoke cybernetic componentry, chromed lips a space-age
prophylactic.

The organic/inorganic dialectic of the dystopian future has motivated countless
paranoiac cyber-fantasies. Consider Maria, the fetching Maschinenmensch
(man-machine) from Fritz Lang's 1927 classic "Metropolis," reputed to be the
first fembot - though that term didn't enter the pop lexicon until Lindsay
Wagner of "The Bionic Woman" started kicking serious ass in the second-wave
'70s. (The somewhat more clinical term, gynoid, was coined by Gwyneth Jones to
describe the alluring Chinese robot slave in her 1984 novel "Divine Endurance.")
Those gleaming heroines are but few in a centuries-long line of sexy robotrix
spanning countless Japanese animés, as well as Playboy Playmate Dorothy
Stratten's Galaxina, the suburbandroid Stepford Wives, T-X (aka the
Terminatrix), Hajime Sorayama's chromed pin-ups, the campy artillery-breasted
fembot army of "Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery," ethereal Ava of
"Ex Machina" and the glamorous claw-armed Imperator Furiosa from "Mad Max: Fury
Road."

The gynoid neatly conflates erotic desire and fear - Pris, the "basic pleasure
model" replicant in "Blade Runner" attempts to strangle her would-be captor
between her thighs - the terror of the sex toy run amok. Running amok is, of
course, what robots do. In terms of moral repercussion, the unintended actions
of the robot are the inevitable consequence of designer hubris. What can you
expect when you challenge God? Yet despite all the cautionary tales, it remains
the case that there is no greater prize than our own mechanical duplication.
Project that trope onto the world of style and it's only a minor conceptual leap
from designing the look to designing the woman. Why stop at the dress? The
cyborg is fashion's Gesamtkunstwerk.

A top-of-the-line cyborg, however, is still technically out of reach for even
the most ambitious futurist, so the computer-generated version is still the next
best thing. Last winter, Louis Vuitton announced that Lightning, the 100-percent
pixel-based heroine from the "Final Fantasy" video games, would be the face of a
new campaign. According to the creative director Nicolas Ghesquière, his digital
muse is "the perfect avatar for a global, heroic woman and for a world where
social networks and communications are now seamlessly woven into our life." (Not
to mention the perfect avatar for a global brand, one that can be leveraged
infinitely without all the pesky inconveniences of flesh and blood.)

If keeping up with the unrealizable expectations of the fashion system weren't
already challenging enough, the indefatigable Pris, or the effortlessly
breathtaking Lightning "chosen to be a savior by the god Bhunivelze, [and]
tasked to save the people's souls before the end of the world," seriously up the
ante. (Do you know how hard it is to save souls and still look fresh?) Though
you may never be charged with global salvation, at least now you can look like
you could be. A little silver on the lip, gold on the eyelid or chrome on the
nail and you're ready to take on the world(s).

All this gilding suggests an emerging form, wavering on the edge between ancient
alchemy and ultra-technology, the fetishistic and futuristic. Under the lights
of the runway, the glinting metallic glaze deconstructs the female face,
disassembling it into an intricate, shimmering machine of highly polished
components. Perhaps at issue is simply reflection: The light - and the gaze -
bounce off the body. There is no there there, just a reflection of the
surrounding world. I, fembot, am you. But that reflectivity also suggests a
different kind of plating; metal as the quintessential protective skin. The
robot recalls, first and foremost, a reanimated suit of armor sans body.
Contemporary body armor is mostly invisible, embedded in the mesh of a garment
or even a kind of super fabric in itself. But the metalized woman defiantly
wears her armor on the outside. In today's world, the message is as blunt as
lead: I'm impervious.

Middle artwork by Matteo Messinese/2x4. From left: Jamie McCarthy/Staff/Getty
Images; "Ex Machina," Alicia Vikander, 2015. ©A24/courtesy Everett Collection;
Dimitrios Kambouris/Staff/Getty Images; Lipstick by M.A.C. Ruffian lipstick in
Ruffian Gold, Limited Edition 2012, photos by Alex Kolokythas
Photography/Shutterstock (3); Imagehub/Shutterstock; Firstview; NASA, ESA and
the Hubble Heritage Team(STScI/AURA)-ESA/Hubble collaboration; Photo: Luqman,
CGI: Simon Danaher; Timothy A. Clary/Stringer/Getty Images; (c)Hajime
Sorayama/Artspace Company y/Uptight Co., Ltd, 2016: www.hajimesorayama.com (2);
Larry Busacca/Staff/Getty Images; Dimitrios Kambouris/Staff/Getty Images; Lucas
Film Ltd./Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp./Photofest ©Lucasfilm Ltd./Twentieth
Century Fox Film Corp.; Lightning: Louis Vuitton/Tetsuya Nomura & VM of Square
Enix Cube/Getty Images; Paramount Pictures/Photofest ©Paramount Pictures;
Schohaja; Ingvar Bjork/Shutterstock; ©United Artists/Photofest; Fondazione
Prada/Danica Kus/Otto; NASA, ESA and the Hubble Heritage
Team(STScI/AURA)-ESA/Hubble collaboration; Grandeduc/Shutterstock; (c)Hajime
Sorayama/Artspace Company y/Uptight Co., Ltd, 2016: www.hajimesorayama.com;
Granger, NYC - All Rights Reserved; Kevin Francis Gray, "Face-Off," 2007,
Bronze, automotive paint, wood, Edition of 4 + 1AP/©Kevin Francis Gray, courtesy
Pace Gallery; Chad Batka/The New York Times

PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARTWORK BY KEE KIM/2X4; LIPSTICK BY M.A.C. RUFFIAN
LIPSTICK IN RUFFIAN GOLD, LIMITED EDITION 2012; ALEX KOLOKYTHAS
PHOTOGRAPHY/SHUTTERSTOCK; COURTESY OF BANKS POWER; SIRAPHAT/SHUTTERSTOCK;
IAMBADA/GETTY IMAGES); PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARTWORK BY MATTEO MESSINESE/2X4;
JAMIE MCCARTHY/STAFF/GETTY IMAGES; ''EX MACHINA,'' ALICIA VIKANDER, 2015.
©A24/COURTESY EVERETT COLLECTION; DIMITRIOS KAMBOURIS/STAFF/GETTY IMAGES; ALEX
KOLOKYTHAS PHOTOGRAPHER/SHUTTERSTOCK; M.A.C. RUFFIAN LIPSTICK IN RUFFIAN GOLD,
LIMITED EDITION 2012; IMAGEHUB/SHUTTERSTOCK; FIRSTVIEW; NASA, ESA AND THE HUBBLE
HERITAGE TEAM(STSCL/AURA)-ESA/HUBBLE COLLABORATION; PHOTO: LUQMAN, CGI: SIMON
DANAHER; TIMOTHY A. CLARY/STRINGER/GETTY IMAGES; (C)HAJIME SORAYAMA/ARTSPACE
COMPANY Y/UPTIGHT CO., LTD, 2016: WWW.HAJIMESORAYAMA.COM ; LARRY
BUSACCA/STAFF/GETTY IMAGES; DIMITRIOS KAMBOURIS/ STAFF/GETTY IMAGES; LUCAS FILM
LTD./TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX FILM CORP./PHOTOFEST ©LUCASFILM LTD./TWENTIETH
CENTURY FOX FILM CORP.; OCIACIA/SHUTTERSTOCK; LIGHTNING: LOUIS VUITTON/TETSUYA
NOMURA & VW OF SQUARE ENIX); ONLY HUMAN Metallics have a long history of
signalling the future, from Fritz Lang's Maschinenmensch (''manmachine'') in his
1927 film, ''Metropolis'' to Lightning, the heroine from the ''Final Fantasy''
video games, who also recently starred in a Louis Vuitton fashion campaign.
Previous page: a speculative collage for a possible Prada project. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY CUBE/GETTY IMAGES; PARAMOUNT PICTURES/PHOTOFEST ©PARAMOUNT PICTURES;
SCHOHAJA; INGVAR BJORK/SHUTTERSTOCK; ©UNITED ARTISTS/PHOTOFEST; M.A.C. RUFFIAN
LIPSTICK IN RUFFIAN GOLD, LIMITED EDITION 2012; FONDAZIONE PRADA/ DANICA
KUS/OTTO; NASA, ESA, AND THE HUBBLE HERITAGE TEAM (STSCL/AURA)-ESA/HUBBLE
COLLABORATION; GRANDEDUC/SHUTTERSTOCK; (C)HAJIME SORAYAMA/ARTSPACE COMPANY
Y/UPTIGHT CO., LTD., 2016: WWW.HAJIMESORAYAMA.COM; GRANGER, NYC - ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED; KEVIN FRANCIS GRAY, ''FACE-OFF,'' 2007, BRONZE, AUTOMOTIVE PAINT,
WOOD, EDITION OF 4+1 AP/©KEVIN FRANCIS GRAY, COURTESY PACE GALLERY; CHAD
BATKA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    The Naturally Alchemical Power of Gold Makeup
     ·    The Subtle Appeal of Glossy, Nearly Naked Eyelids


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 11, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Russian Cybersleuth Battles the 'Dark Ages' of the Internet

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR; Alexandra Odynova contributed reporting..

Follow Neil MacFarquhar on Twitter @NeilMacFarquhar .

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1511 words


MOSCOW -- A sense of menace stirs right off the elevator on the fifth floor of
Kaspersky Lab's Moscow headquarters, where a small television screen displays
cyberthreats occurring in real time around the world -- a blinking, spinning,
color-coded globe brimming with suspicious emails, malware and evil botnets that
could be infecting a computer near you.

That feeling of unease intensifies when Eugene V. Kaspersky -- the stocky,
garrulous, 50-year-old founder and chief executive of the global computer
security company -- begins to catalog possible threats: The computerized
elevator you just left is vulnerable to cyberattacks, as are your smartphone and
smartcar. Your bank, without question. Your electricity and water supplies could
be at risk. Cybercriminals grow smarter, bolder and more elusive every year.

''We are living in the middle cyberage, the dark ages of cyber,'' said Mr.
Kaspersky, whose modest corner office with glass walls overlooks a stretch of
canal and a boat club. He has longish salt-and-pepper hair, a trim beard and a
ruddy, tanned complexion. ''Right now, it is more functionality, more
technology, more services, but not enough security.''

Kaspersky Lab is most famous for being the home of the brainy geek squad that
exposed Stuxnet and Flame, the American-Israeli cyberweapons that disrupted
Iran's nuclear program.

Mr. Kaspersky and his company find themselves at the forefront of the battle
against cybergangs, one of the largest emerging threats, for two rather simple
reasons, he said: ''Russian software engineers are the best; unfortunately
Russian cybercriminals are the best, as well.''

Hacking methods developed in the Russian-speaking world are going global,
suggesting a thriving black market in malicious code. ''They don't just hack the
victims, they trade the technology to other gangs,'' he said. ''Now there are
hundreds of victims, in the United States and Asia.''

One gang alone is believed to have stolen up to $1 billion from banks, mainly in
Russia, in 2013 and 2014. And this month, Kaspersky Lab experts helped Russia
catch its largest hacking gang yet -- 50 people were arrested and accused of
stealing $45 million since 2011. Investigators now believe the North Korean
government hacked an international financial messaging system in February in an
effort to drain $1 billion from the central bank of Bangladesh. They managed to
get $81 million before the Federal Reserve Bank of New York became suspicious
and cut off the transaction.

After banks, commodities are a big new target. Hackers manipulate supply
records, disguising surpluses to sell. ''We now have reports that it is massive,
it is everywhere,'' said Mr. Kaspersky, who speaks colorful English with a
Russian accent.

Mr. Kaspersky is something of an anomaly in Russia, a businessman who built a
global brand from scratch, using brains and persistence. His firm is among the
most successful international computer security operations in the world, with
offices in 32 countries, about 400 million people using its software (by its own
estimate) and high-profile advertising campaigns, like its sponsorship of
Ferrari's Formula One team.

However, given the tense relations between Russia and the West, Kaspersky Lab is
fighting a rear-guard battle along with combating cybercrime: allaying concerns
that a Russian security company can be trusted to protect confidential data
stored online by Western companies and individuals.

Some of the questions are rooted in Mr. Kaspersky's past -- even in Russia,
where the company and its founder generate both pride and suspicion.

Mr. Kaspersky was born in 1965 in Novorossiysk, on the Black Sea, to an engineer
father and a mother working in the national archives. His mother nurtured his
early aptitude for mathematics and, after the family moved to Moscow, he
blossomed into a prodigy.

After he placed second in a major Russian math contest at age 14, he was
recruited by the prestigious Kolmogorov Physics and Mathematics School, a
boarding school run by Moscow State University that fosters high school math
whizzes.

Mr. Kaspersky went on to a K.G.B.-sponsored university education intended to
transform mathematicians into cryptologists, and pictures of him in a K.G.B.
uniform are readily available online. ''I was not good enough to become a true
cryptologist,'' he said, laughing.

Instead, he turned to software engineering, becoming the go-to guy in the Red
Army for computer problems. ''I wrote the code for the Soviet military,'' he
said.

He published an early book on computer viruses and founded Kaspersky Lab in 1997
with his first wife, Natalya. (He married three times and has four children.)

There is a strong sense in Russia that no company, particularly no computer
security company, could succeed without Kremlin support, and Russian tech
experts invariably refer to two episodes that fed mistrust.

Mr. Kaspersky once advocated requiring an individual passport for web access, an
idea the Kremlin encouraged, although he has come to focus on controlling access
only to sites of high national security interest, like utilities. Government
critics also found Kaspersky Lab slow to react during protests in 2011, when
numerous opposition websites collapsed under a severe criminal attack widely
attributed to the Russian government.

In December, Mr. Kaspersky raised questions by signing his first cooperation
agreement with a major state-run Chinese enterprise. Some Russian internet
experts saw that as proof of choosing sides, becoming the anti-West cybercop and
endorsing the Chinese model of a highly filtered internet.

Mr. Kaspersky said his China contract was simply a matter of capitalizing on its
need for better security, especially since he sees Russian malware emerging
there.

Others said he had to make his peace with the system -- or leave. ''He decided
to accept the rules and to stay here,'' said Andrei Soldatov, the co-author of
''The Red Web,'' a book documenting the Kremlin's efforts to transfer ubiquitous
Soviet surveillance techniques onto the web. ''He is part of the Russian
tradition of engineers who really believe in order.''

Mr. Kaspersky said he stayed in Russia for its skilled software engineers. He
and others attribute their prowess to a Russian educational system that, while
less regimented than in Soviet times, still nurtures elite math skills.
Widespread hacking is partly rooted in the tradition of not paying a kopeck for
anything that could be grabbed free off the web, like software or movies.

Mr. Kaspersky appears in self-effacing nerd mode around Kaspersky Lab
headquarters, busing his own cafeteria tray and riding the elevator downstairs
to smoke outside like everybody else, despite the vast balcony outside his
office.

He claims not to know his net worth, which Forbes recently estimated at $1.1
billion, putting him at 66th among Russia's top 200 richest people. He wears a
Swatch and usually flies commercial airlines. In addition to Formula One, he
underwrites various quirky or scientific projects -- including the excavation of
the mysterious Minoan civilization of Akrotiri, on the Greek island of Santorini
-- and he delights in exploring remote spots in eastern Russia, the American
West and New Zealand, among other places.

''I want to be not only a very professional, very correct, very good security
company,'' he said. '' I also want to be an unusual company.''

Mr. Kaspersky works as his brand's high-profile envoy, spinning around the globe
seemingly at the speed of the lights on his cyberthreat map. His travels last
year included 116 flights and included more than 50 presentations. He documents
every step on a blog translated into nine languages.

''You wonder if he is ever asleep or ever at home,'' said Anton Nossik, a
Russian tech pioneer and journalist, noting that the entrepreneur maintains a
particularly sunny disposition online for someone selling the need to fight
crime.

Where Mr. Kaspersky breaks out of the nerd mold is with his brash, booming
presence at large corporate events.

''He loves to be in the spotlight,'' said Aleksandr Plushev, who covers tech for
the Echo of Moscow radio station. ''He is a very bright, funny, smart and
open-minded person, with his own opinion. A little bit crazy, like almost all
very talented people.''

Hundreds of Kaspersky employees converge on Moscow twice a year: for the company
birthday party in July (when Mr. Kaspersky often serves as the M.C. for a talent
contest), and for a New Year's Eve celebration.

The venues sometimes reflect his impish sense of humor. One year, he chartered a
train to Uryupinsk, a town about 435 miles southeast of Moscow whose name the
Russians use to signify ''the middle of nowhere.''

Photography is a favorite pastime of his, and he was thrilled when the magazine
GQ Russia recently recommended his Instagram account as ''enticing and not
banal.''

That closely reflects his take on web security, as well. ''It is getting much
more complicated,'' he said, ''and at the same time much more interesting.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/11/world/europe/kaspersky-lab-russia-cybercrime-i
nternet.html

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: EUGENE V. KASPERSKY (PHOTOGRAPH BY VALERI NISTRATOV FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 12, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sex Machina

BYLINE: By MICHAEL ROCK

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Beauty Magazine; SIGN OF THE TIMES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1379 words


Not since Goldfinger ordered the gilt body of his double-crossing gal pal dumped
in James Bond's bed has the metalized body had such a cultural moment. The
intergalactic sheen of the inorganic seems omnipresent, tinging everything from
eyes, lips and nails to gilded temporary tattoos, cutaneous body adornments, to
even the most ubiquitous handheld device, the rose gold iPhone 6s. Metal-mania
may have reached a saturation point at the recent Met Gala, where glittering
guests were greeted by a phalanx of chrome-helmeted, silver-lashed cyber-models.
Not to be outdone, many of the partiers -- resplendent in spangled Balmain
spacesuits, shiny ear cuffs and chromed accouterments -- seemed on the verge of
some metallurgic transmogrification themselves.

If the Met Gala was its apotheosis, the origin point of the precious metal
movement occurred backstage in Milan last fall. Fresh from the unveiling of her
gold-leaf Haunted House at the new Fondazione Prada, Miuccia Prada exhorted her
team to plate her models' lips in an eerie yellow-gold powder that went on to
become the look of the season -- a surreal intersection of Klimt and Kubrick.
[Prada is a client of the author.] Moving on to Paris, Maison Margiela amped up
the effect with silvered eyes. After several seasons where makeup on the runway
evoked some idealized image of dewy naturalism, the metallic appliqué exuded a
molten heft that was unabashedly sci-fi. The result was uncanny and alien: part
''Barbarella,'' part ''Blade Runner,'' part Ziggy Stardust. With so much
attention focused on our virtual selves -- the use of emails, texts, posts and
Snapchats -- this emergence of the metalized body seems to reassert the physical
in the face of digital dissolution. Metal may be inherently inhuman, the
uneffaced index of industrialization, but at least it's tangible.

Simultaneously, this plating of the skin triggers our conflicted relationship
with machines. And technology. And femininity. And sex. And power. And the
future. The co-mingling of flesh and metal agitates an underlying contemporary
neurosis: Where does the body stop and the machine take over? Fashion occupies
that space at the edge of the body, and ''the fetishism that succumbs to the sex
appeal of the inorganic,'' the German cultural theorist Walter Benjamin famously
observed, ''is [fashion's] vital nerve.'' We want what we're not. And for
millennia, the cold, hard impenetrability of metal has served as the
counterpoint of supple flesh. Metals may be our most ancient obsession -- they
name our prehistories after all -- but this moment of techno-fetishism looks
decidedly forward. The metallic is still our most explicit expression of the
futuristic: Steel nails evoke cybernetic componentry, chromed lips a space-age
prophylactic.

The organic/inorganic dialectic of the dystopian future has motivated countless
paranoiac cyber-fantasies. Consider Maria, the fetching Maschinenmensch
(man-machine) from Fritz Lang's 1927 classic ''Metropolis,'' reputed to be the
first fembot -- though that term didn't enter the pop lexicon until Lindsay
Wagner of ''The Bionic Woman'' started kicking serious ass in the second-wave
'70s. (The somewhat more clinical term, gynoid, was coined by Gwyneth Jones to
describe the alluring Chinese robot slave in her 1984 novel ''Divine
Endurance.'') Those gleaming heroines are but few in a centuries-long line of
sexy robotrix spanning countless Japanese animés, as well as Playboy Playmate
Dorothy Stratten's Galaxina, the suburbandroid Stepford Wives, T-X (aka the
Terminatrix), Hajime Sorayama's chromed pin-ups, the campy artillery-breasted
fembot army of ''Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery,'' ethereal Ava of
''Ex Machina'' and the glamorous claw-armed Imperator Furiosa from ''Mad Max:
Fury Road.''

The gynoid neatly conflates erotic desire and fear -- Pris, the ''basic pleasure
model'' replicant in ''Blade Runner'' attempts to strangle her would-be captor
between her thighs -- the terror of the sex toy run amok. Running amok is, of
course, what robots do. In terms of moral repercussion, the unintended actions
of the robot are the inevitable consequence of designer hubris. What can you
expect when you challenge God? Yet despite all the cautionary tales, it remains
the case that there is no greater prize than our own mechanical duplication.
Project that trope onto the world of style and it's only a minor conceptual leap
from designing the look to designing the woman. Why stop at the dress? The
cyborg is fashion's Gesamtkunstwerk.

A top-of-the-line cyborg, however, is still technically out of reach for even
the most ambitious futurist, so the computer-generated version is still the next
best thing. Last winter, Louis Vuitton announced that Lightning, the 100-percent
pixel-based heroine from the ''Final Fantasy'' video games, would be the face of
a new campaign. According to the creative director Nicolas Ghesquière, his
digital muse is ''the perfect avatar for a global, heroic woman and for a world
where social networks and communications are now seamlessly woven into our
life.'' (Not to mention the perfect avatar for a global brand, one that can be
leveraged infinitely without all the pesky inconveniences of flesh and blood.)

If keeping up with the unrealizable expectations of the fashion system weren't
already challenging enough, the indefatigable Pris, or the effortlessly
breathtaking Lightning ''chosen to be a savior by the god Bhunivelze, [and]
tasked to save the people's souls before the end of the world,'' seriously up
the ante. (Do you know how hard it is to save souls and still look fresh?)
Though you may never be charged with global salvation, at least now you can look
like you could be. A little silver on the lip, gold on the eyelid or chrome on
the nail and you're ready to take on the world(s).

All this gilding suggests an emerging form, wavering on the edge between ancient
alchemy and ultra-technology, the fetishistic and futuristic. Under the lights
of the runway, the glinting metallic glaze deconstructs the female face,
disassembling it into an intricate, shimmering machine of highly polished
components. Perhaps at issue is simply reflection: The light -- and the gaze --
bounce off the body. There is no there there, just a reflection of the
surrounding world. I, fembot, am you. But that reflectivity also suggests a
different kind of plating; metal as the quintessential protective skin. The
robot recalls, first and foremost, a reanimated suit of armor sans body.
Contemporary body armor is mostly invisible, embedded in the mesh of a garment
or even a kind of super fabric in itself. But the metalized woman defiantly
wears her armor on the outside. In today's world, the message is as blunt as
lead: I'm impervious.

Middle artwork by Matteo Messinese/2x4. From left: Jamie McCarthy/Staff/Getty
Images; ''Ex Machina,'' Alicia Vikander, 2015. ©A24/courtesy Everett Collection;
Dimitrios Kambouris/Staff/Getty Images; Lipstick by M.A.C. Ruffian lipstick in
Ruffian Gold, Limited Edition 2012, photos by Alex Kolokythas
Photography/Shutterstock (3); Imagehub/Shutterstock; Firstview; NASA, ESA and
the Hubble Heritage Team(STScI/AURA)-ESA/Hubble collaboration; Photo: Luqman,
CGI: Simon Danaher; Timothy A. Clary/Stringer/Getty Images; (c)Hajime
Sorayama/Artspace Company y/Uptight Co., Ltd, 2016: www.hajimesorayama.com (2);
Larry Busacca/Staff/Getty Images; Dimitrios Kambouris/Staff/Getty Images; Lucas
Film Ltd./Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp./Photofest ©Lucasfilm Ltd./Twentieth
Century Fox Film Corp.; Lightning: Louis Vuitton/Tetsuya Nomura & VM of Square
Enix Cube/Getty Images; Paramount Pictures/Photofest ©Paramount Pictures;
Schohaja; Ingvar Bjork/Shutterstock; ©United Artists/Photofest; Fondazione
Prada/Danica Kus/Otto; NASA, ESA and the Hubble Heritage
Team(STScI/AURA)-ESA/Hubble collaboration; Grandeduc/Shutterstock; (c)Hajime
Sorayama/Artspace Company y/Uptight Co., Ltd, 2016: www.hajimesorayama.com;
Granger, NYC - All Rights Reserved; Kevin Francis Gray, ''Face-Off,'' 2007,
Bronze, automotive paint, wood, Edition of 4 + 1AP/©Kevin Francis Gray, courtesy
Pace Gallery; Chad Batka/The New York Times

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/07/t-magazine/fashion/gold-gilded-fashion-beauty-
trend.html

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARTWORK BY KEE KIM/2X4
LIPSTICK BY M.A.C. RUFFIAN LIPSTICK IN RUFFIAN GOLD, LIMITED EDITION 2012
ALEX KOLOKYTHAS PHOTOGRAPHY/SHUTTERSTOCK
COURTESY OF BANKS POWER
SIRAPHAT/SHUTTERSTOCK
IAMBADA/GETTY IMAGES)
PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARTWORK BY MATTEO MESSINESE/2X4
JAMIE MCCARTHY/STAFF/GETTY IMAGES
''EX MACHINA,'' ALICIA VIKANDER, 2015. ©A24/COURTESY EVERETT COLLECTION
DIMITRIOS KAMBOURIS/STAFF/GETTY IMAGES
ALEX KOLOKYTHAS PHOTOGRAPHER/SHUTTERSTOCK
M.A.C. RUFFIAN LIPSTICK IN RUFFIAN GOLD, LIMITED EDITION 2012
IMAGEHUB/SHUTTERSTOCK
FIRSTVIEW
NASA, ESA AND THE HUBBLE HERITAGE TEAM(STSCL/AURA)-ESA/HUBBLE COLLABORATION
PHOTO: LUQMAN, CGI: SIMON DANAHER
TIMOTHY A. CLARY/STRINGER/GETTY IMAGES
(C)HAJIME SORAYAMA/ARTSPACE COMPANY Y/UPTIGHT CO., LTD, 2016:
WWW.HAJIMESORAYAMA.COM
LARRY BUSACCA/STAFF/GETTY IMAGES
DIMITRIOS KAMBOURIS/ STAFF/GETTY IMAGES
LUCAS FILM LTD./TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX FILM CORP./PHOTOFEST ©LUCASFILM
LTD./TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX FILM CORP.
OCIACIA/SHUTTERSTOCK
LIGHTNING: LOUIS VUITTON/TETSUYA NOMURA & VW OF SQUARE ENIX)
ONLY HUMAN Metallics have a long history of signalling the future, from Fritz
Lang's Maschinenmensch (''manmachine'') in his 1927 film, ''Metropolis'' to
Lightning, the heroine from the ''Final Fantasy'' video games, who also recently
starred in a Louis Vuitton fashion campaign. Previous page: a speculative
collage for a possible Prada project. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CUBE/GETTY IMAGES
PARAMOUNT PICTURES/PHOTOFEST ©PARAMOUNT PICTURES
SCHOHAJA
INGVAR BJORK/SHUTTERSTOCK
©UNITED ARTISTS/PHOTOFEST
M.A.C. RUFFIAN LIPSTICK IN RUFFIAN GOLD, LIMITED EDITION 2012
FONDAZIONE PRADA/ DANICA KUS/OTTO
NASA, ESA, AND THE HUBBLE HERITAGE TEAM (STSCL/AURA)-ESA/HUBBLE COLLABORATION
GRANDEDUC/SHUTTERSTOCK
(C)HAJIME SORAYAMA/ARTSPACE COMPANY Y/UPTIGHT CO., LTD., 2016:
WWW.HAJIMESORAYAMA.COM
GRANGER, NYC - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
KEVIN FRANCIS GRAY, ''FACE-OFF,'' 2007, BRONZE, AUTOMOTIVE PAINT, WOOD, EDITION
OF 4+1 AP/©KEVIN FRANCIS GRAY, COURTESY PACE GALLERY
 CHAD BATKA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 12, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Caroline Young, Nicholas Fall

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 181 words


Caroline Lane Young and Nicholas Joseph Fall were married June 11 at St. Ann's
Episcopal Church in Bridgehampton, N.Y. The Rev. Timothy J. Lewis performed the
ceremony.

Mrs. Fall, 32, is a manager of marketing and strategic initiatives for the
Sheraton Hotels brand of Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, in Stamford,
Conn. She graduated from the University of Virginia and received an M.B.A. from
N.Y.U.

She is the daughter of Carolyn Lane Young and Mason J. Young III of Oak Hill,
Va. The bride's father is a consultant on satellite and cyber security sales for
the federal government; he works from Oak Hill.

Mr. Fall, also 32, is a director, structuring high-yield bonds and leveraged
loans, in the New York investment banking division of Barclays, the British
bank. He graduated from Princeton.

He is the son of Deborah Baldwin Fall and Jerry J. Fall of Chappaqua, N.Y. The
groom's father retired as a managing director in the New York office of the
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, a Japanese bank.

The couple met at an Independence Day beach picnic in Amagansett, N.Y., in 2013.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/12/fashion/weddings/caroline-young-nicholas-fall.
html

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 13, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

To Head Off Digital Attacks, a Security Start-Up Is Spying on Hackers

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 890 words


Standing before a crowded room of entrepreneurs and investors at a conference in
San Francisco last summer, former Vice President Al Gore described how climate
change could be contained, possibly even reversed.

Next to take the stage was Kevin Mandia, the founder of Mandiant, a security
company acquired by another security company called FireEye, who said nothing
could be done to stop hackers from conducting digital attacks.

The juxtaposition did not sit well with Oren Falkowitz, a former analyst at the
National Security Agency. ''I thought, 'Really? We can solve global warming but
we can't stop cyberattacks?''' Mr. Falkowitz recalled. He didn't buy it.

For the last two years, Mr. Falkowitz's start-up, Area 1 Security, has been
trying to persuade the owners and operators of computer servers that have been
compromised by state spies, criminals and hacktivists to allow the company to
tap into those servers to monitor the attackers' activities.

Those servers have given the Area 1 team a much clearer picture of who is being
targeted and what tools and websites attackers are using. And the security
company has started to block attackers, heading them off days or even months
before they hit their targets.

It's a new tack in an industry that in recent years has appeared less confident
that it can block digital attacks. Most security start-ups seeking funding today
have resigned themselves to the inevitability of a breach and are focused more
on identifying an attack as it plays out and praying that they can respond
before the perpetrator makes off with something important.

It's as if everyone in the cybersecurity industry forgot that customers pay them
to keep from being hacked in the first place.

Mr. Falkowitz and his co-founders, Blake Darché and Phil Syme, think they have
found a new way to turn attackers' tools against them.

For as long as there have been cyberattacks, hackers have relied on a vast
network of compromised servers around the globe to funnel their malicious code,
search out targets and steal data. By watching what happens on those compromised
servers at dentists' offices, farms, welding shops and tech companies, Area 1
believes it has secured a unique vantage point for monitoring and even blocking
attacks.

Area 1's technology addresses one of the most pernicious digital threats:
so-called spear-phishing attacks, which bait unsuspecting workers into clicking
on links in emails and unknowingly giving attackers a toehold in their
employers' systems.

Phishing attacks have become an epidemic. To date, more than 90 percent of
breaches have begun with a phishing attack, according to Verizon.

Intelligence experts say that phishing attacks are the preferred method of
Chinese hackers who have managed to steal things as varied as nuclear propulsion
technology and Silicon Valley's most guarded software code.

''Oren does not take it as writ law that we have to live that way, and he wanted
to do something about it,'' said Ted Schlein, a venture capitalist at Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers, which has invested in Area 1.

''If we could look every company in the eye and say, 'We can stop your phishing
attacks,''' Mr. Schlein said, ''then Oren could look Kevin Mandia in the eye and
say, 'Thanks for the inspiration, but you're wrong.'''

One of the biggest challenges in combating phishing attacks has been a lack of
information-sharing among victims, security firms and law enforcement. Victims
are reluctant to publicize security breaches, potentially keeping competitors
from heading off similar attacks.

And the role of the government in sharing threat data has been constrained since
the former intelligence contractor Edward J. Snowden leaked documents revealing
the scale of government monitoring. The Obama administration has been pushing to
collect and share more threat data with the private sector. But few companies
want to share any more data with the government than they are compelled to by
law.

Intelligence agencies say the lack of information-sharing works to attackers'
advantage.

''We are in a very complex digital world that's only going to get more complex
as innovation presents challenges we haven't even anticipated,'' said Daniel
Ennis, former director of the Threat Operations Center at the N.S.A. ''People
have incredible expectations of the government to keep them safe'' online.

''My concern is that the bad guys are going to out-innovate us,'' he added.
''The only way we're going to out-innovate them is a partnership between the
government, the private sector, the victims and academia.''

Until that happens, Area 1 may have found a way to circumnavigate the politics
by recruiting the owners of those compromised servers around the globe.

''Cyber is perceived as this 'Matrix'-like structure, but people forget that
it's also physical in nature,'' Mr. Falkowitz said. ''The players are not just
the attackers and the victim; there's an entire underbelly of the web that has
been subverted.''

Area 1 discovers, on average, 859 new targeting phishing sites a day. Now it can
use its unusual vantage point to help its customers stave off attacks.

It is still early days, but Area 1 aims to eventually end phishing attacks
altogether, Mr. Falkowitz said. ''We just went to Mars and found water, and
people are saying we can't solve this?''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/13/technology/a-computer-security-start-up-turns-
the-tables-on-hackers.html

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Oren Falkowitz, left, and Blake Darché of Area 1, at a welding
shop with compromised servers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAUREN JUSTICE FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 17, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Russian Hackers Attack, NATO Lacks a Clear Cyberwar Strategy

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1373 words


TALLINN, Estonia -- In the six months since part of Ukraine's power grid came
crashing down, turned off by highly sophisticated hackers, cyberspace allies of
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia have been leaving their mark here in the
Baltics and across the sea in Finland and Sweden.

Perhaps to discourage the traditionally neutral Finns and Swedes from growing
closer to NATO -- this past week NATO conducted a naval exercise from Finnish
territory for the first time -- hackers disabled the Finnish Ministry of
Defense's website. That was preceded by electronic espionage against a Dutch
commission that had concluded that a Russian-made Buk missile brought down a
Malaysian airliner two years ago, killing 298 people. And Germany's intelligence
agency, the BND, recently told American officials that it believed Russian
hackers had been behind a cyberattack that destroyed a German steel mill.

Here in Estonia, where NATO maintains a center to explore the alliance's
cyberspace vulnerabilities and potential responses to attacks, there is a
widespread recognition that the Western alliance has yet to develop a strategy
to counter Russia's increasingly aggressive action in cyberspace.

While there are frequent conferences and papers, there are no serious military
plans, apart from locking down the alliance's own networks. Russia, China and
Iran have increasingly sophisticated offensive cyberforces; NATO has none, and
no established mechanism to draw on United States Cyber Command or its British
equivalent.

That stands in sharp contrast to NATO's strategy for dealing with more familiar
threats. The alliance is expected to agree at a summit meeting in July to deploy
four battalions in Poland and the Baltic States to deter land invasions, though
there is no agreement on who will supply troops for the fourth battalion. And it
regularly rehearses the procedures for requesting that its nuclear-armed members
roll out atomic weapons if a crisis erupts; those weapons are stored near NATO
headquarters in Belgium, among other places.

Two years ago, NATO declared that it could rule a cyberattack on one of its
member states to be the equivalent of an armed attack, which would lead to a
commitment by all NATO members to respond.

But when it comes to deterring the kinds of low-level probes, espionage and
attacks that flow through European computer networks every week, NATO commanders
do not seem prepared to take aggressive countermeasures.

Jens Stoltenberg, the NATO secretary general, has taken a low-key, purely
defensive view of what the alliance should do in cyberspace. In an interview
with the German newsmagazine Der Spiegel last week, he talked of sharing
information and expertise, but nothing of the kind of sophisticated probing and
early-warning deterrence strategies that large and small powers have begun to
develop.

In short, it sounded like a strategy from a previous age, before cyberattacks
were regularly used as a weapon and as a tool of espionage.

James Lewis of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington,
who has written about how NATO could use offensive cyberweapons, said there was
''a huge reluctance to share capabilities.'' The United States and Britain say
little about their offensive cyberweapon abilities, even to their NATO allies.

''The Russians get that,'' Mr. Lewis said. ''And they know that there is lots
they can do without triggering any response.''

In part, that is because the Russians are experts at hiding their tracks. Almost
all of the studies of the Ukraine power grid attack in late 2015 -- both
unclassified and classified -- have pointed to hackers in Russia. But American
intelligence officials say they have never been able to track the blackout,
which affected 225,000 Ukrainians, directly to Mr. Putin's government, and
probably never will.

Instead, American officials are giving cyberutility firms and cybersecurity
groups around the United States confidential presentations of an analysis of
what happened to the Ukrainian utilities, as a warning of what could occur on
home soil.

At United States Cyber Command, which has expanded rapidly since the United
States carried out cyberattacks against Iran in 2010, Russia's networks are a
regular target of surveillance. By next year, Cyber Command will have more than
130 teams fully in operation around the world, integrated into Army, Navy,
Marine and Air Force units, in addition to teams that work alongside the
National Security Agency at Fort Meade, Md.

It has built up a vast early warning network, placing tens of thousands of
''implants'' -- sensors that can also be used to insert malware -- into networks
around the world. But NATO is only beginning to explore what it delicately calls
''active defense,'' and says it is not focused on offensive cyberweapons.

The Russians have no such compunctions. But it is unclear what Russian hackers
hope to achieve here in the Baltics, other than to make the point, as they did
in 2007 when they brought Estonia to an electronic halt, that they can get into
any system, anytime.

''Whatever the Russians have in mind -- mostly intimidation -- it usually
fails,'' said Estonia's president, Toomas Hendrik Ilves, who grew up in New
Jersey before coming here to turn this small NATO country into a pioneer in
introducing new web-based technology for governing a nation. The 2007 attacks
backfired, he noted, because they drove Estonians far more solidly into the
European and NATO camps.

In Sweden and Finland, neutral nations in the Cold War, the politics are more
complex. As the NATO exercise began in Finland last week, the Finnish foreign
minister was in Moscow, meeting his Russian counterpart, Sergey V. Lavrov.

The more Sweden and Finland turn to NATO, the more their networks, their news
sites and their government ministries come under cyberattack. As Adm. John
Richardson, the chief of United States naval operations, said at an event at the
Council on Foreign Relations in May, ''The fact is it's a pretty hot war in the
cyber domain going on right now.''

A hot war, but a kind that suits Russia well: It is part of what military
strategists call ''gray zone'' combat. For Mr. Putin, cyberespionage and
cyberattacks keep NATO and its partners off balance. They are enormously
difficult and expensive to defend against, and, at least for now, they have
operated below the line that is likely to prompt a military or economic
response.

''It stays below the radar,'' Martin Libicki of the RAND Corporation told a
conference sponsored this month by the NATO cyber center here, officially known
as the NATO Cooperative Cyber Defense Center of Excellence.

For the Russians, Mr. Libicki said, cyberespionage and weaponry are part of a
larger strategy of information warfare and a blitz of propaganda that makes
sorting out fact from fiction -- say, the causes of the Malaysia Airlines crash
in Ukraine -- all the more difficult. But the attacks also remind the smaller
nations here of their vulnerability, even if Russia's troops stay on their side
of the border.

So far, NATO has found few effective means of deterring attacks.

''The biggest problem in cyber remains deterrence,'' said Mr. Ilves, the
Estonian president, who has made the issue of avoiding cyber conflict one of the
main themes of his time in office. ''We have been talking about the need to deal
with it within NATO for years now.''

His fear, he said, is that Russia or other cyberattackers will soon move to the
next frontier: subtle manipulation of data like medical records, the operations
of weapons systems and navigation data.

But for now, Europe's focus is on keeping its secrets safe and its weapons
working. Germany issued a warning last month about Russian attacks; its
Parliament was targeted last year in an operation that sought to install
software that would have given Russia continuous access to the Parliament's
computer networks. Hans-Georg Maassen, the head of the German domestic
intelligence agency, told The Financial Times that the Russians were ''showing a
readiness for sabotage.''

Now, Germany's defense agency has done what NATO has not: It has started its own
cyberwarfare unit.

Follow David E. Sanger on Twitter @SangerNYT.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/17/world/europe/nato-russia-cyberwarfare.html

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Dutch warship Johan De Witt during recent NATO exercises off
southern Finland, the first staged from Finnish territory. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RONI
REKOMAA/LEHTIKUVA, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         June 20, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Chinese Curb Cyberattacks on U.S. Interests, Report Finds

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1179 words



HIGHLIGHT: FireEye, a security firm, reported a sharp decline in Chinese hacking
even before the White House completed an agreement with China to curb
cyberespionage.


WASHINGTON - Nine months after President Obama and President Xi Jinping of China
agreed to a broad crackdown on cyberespionage aimed at curbing the theft of
intellectual property, the first detailed study of Chinese hacking has found a
sharp drop-off in almost daily raids on Silicon Valley firms, military
contractors and other commercial targets.

But the study, conducted by the iSight intelligence unit of FireEye, a company
that manages large network breaches, also concluded that the drop-off began a
year before Mr. Obama and Mr. Xi announced their accord in the White House Rose
Garden. In a conclusion that is largely echoed by American intelligence
officials, the study said the change is part of Mr. Xi's broad effort to bring
the Chinese military, which is considered one of the main sponsors of the
attacks, further under his control.

As a result, the same political forces that may be alleviating the theft of data
from American companies are also responsible for Mr. Xi's stunningly swift
crackdown on the Chinese media, bloggers and others who could challenge the
Communist Party.

"It's a mixed bag," said Kevin Mandia, the founder of Mandiant, now part of
FireEye, which first detailed the activities of a People's Liberation Army cyber
-arm, called Unit 61398, that had been responsible for some of the most highly
publicized thefts of American technology. "We still see semiconductor companies
and aerospace firms attacked."

But the daily barrage of attacks has diminished, which Mr. Mandia attributed to
"public pressure" from, among others, the Justice Department's decision to
indict five members of the P.L.A. unit about a year after its activities were
exposed.

Today, Unit 61398 appears to be largely out of business, its hackers dispersed
to other military, private and intelligence units. Many China scholars and legal
experts remain skeptical that the Chinese are deterred by American indictments,
since the P.L.A. officers are unlikely to see the inside of an American
courtroom. But John P. Carlin, the assistant attorney general for national
security, said the report validated his strategy.

"The lesson is that when you figure out who has done this kind of theft, don't
fear making it public," he said. "This is a slow process, but we are beginning
to make people realize that even in cyberspace, laws and norms are applicable."

Mr. Obama and Mr. Xi drew up their agreement narrowly. It covers intellectual
property theft - Chinese cybercriminals have stolen everything from designs for
the F-35 fighter jet to the design of gas distribution networks - but not
ordinary espionage against government targets.

So, for example, the administration has not publicly talked about penalizing
China for the theft of personal data on roughly 22 million Americans, whose
security-clearance information was taken from the Office of Personnel
Management. In fact, the administration has never publicly blamed China for that
theft, although the director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., did
talk about China's role once, before he was told by the administration not to
refer to any specific country.

As recently as last week, senior administration officials were in Beijing trying
to flesh out the agreement between the two presidents. Participants say that
among the points of discussion was how to set up a hotline through which the two
countries can alert each other to malicious software they have detected in
global networks, with the expectation that Chinese and American investigators
would work to find its source.

Establishing such norms of behavior is far more likely to be effective than
attempting to negotiate a treaty, according to outside experts who have been
trying to devise the cyberequivalent of arms-control agreements.

"Treaties are not verifiable in the cyberarena," said Joseph Nye, a Harvard
professor known for his studies of how nations use "soft power," who in recent
years has turned to the problem of regulating activity in cyberspace. "The same
code can be benign or a weapon depending on the user's intent," he said. For
example, a six-digit code that unlocks a cellphone is a protection for the user
- and a potential weapon for a hacker.

"So instead of focusing on the weapons, you have to focus on targets," Mr. Nye
said. "You start by saying that you don't target something that has a clearly
civilian use, like a power grid."

Mr. Nye and Michael Chertoff, the secretary of Homeland Security during the Bush
administration, who now runs a private firm that is deeply involved in
cybersecurity, were among the lead authors of a report to be published on
Tuesday by the Global Commission on Internet Governance that will describe those
norms to the United Nations and other groups.

Just how fundamentally the Chinese are changing is a matter of debate. There is
some evidence, American intelligence officials say, that while the People's
Liberation Army is not stealing as much on behalf of Chinese state-owned firms,
much of the hacking activity has been shifted to the intelligence agencies,
which can make the case that they are stealing national security secrets, not
commercial information. Often, the difference is blurry, especially when the
target is, say, the design of a satellite or a ship.

Even after Mr. Obama and Mr. Xi announced their agreement last fall, American
officials have said they have discovered malware in power grids, cellphone
networks and other purely civilian targets. But it is unclear whether that
malicious software is intended to collect information about users, shut the
system down or both.

The FireEye study concluded that as early as 2014, around the time of the
indictment of the P.L.A.'s officers and hackers, the Chinese government had
already been modifying its approach to cyberoperations.

The study of 72 Chinese hacking groups showed a sharp drop-off in the volume of
attacks. But as recently as March, FireEye saw efforts to obtain information on
American military projects by stealing access credentials to a contractor, and
there has been continual theft of personal information from health care
providers. The Chinese hacking groups have also focused on non-American targets,
including Russia, South Korea and Vietnam, and have sometimes aimed at targets
related to the disputes over Chinese claims in the South China Sea.

The report concludes that Chinese attacks have decreased in volume, but
increased in sophistication. The result is that Chinese hackers are now acting
more like Russian hackers: They pick their targets more carefully, and cover
their tracks.

"We see a threat that is less voluminous but more focused, calculated, and still
successful in compromising corporate networks," the report said.

Follow The New York Times's politics and Washington coverage onFacebook
andTwitter, and sign up for theFirst Draft politics newsletter.

Related Articles


     ·    A Computer Security Start-Up Turns the Tables on Hackers
     ·    As Russian Hackers Probe, NATO Has No Clear Cyberwar Strategy
     ·    U.S. and China Seek Arms Deal for Cyberspace
     ·    Cyberthreat Posed by China and Iran Confounds White House


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 21, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chinese Curbing Cyberattacks on U.S. Interests, Report Finds

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1151 words


WASHINGTON -- Nine months after President Obama and President Xi Jinping of
China agreed to a broad crackdown on cyberespionage aimed at curbing the theft
of intellectual property, the first detailed study of Chinese hacking has found
a sharp drop-off in almost daily raids on Silicon Valley firms, military
contractors and other commercial targets.

But the study, conducted by the iSight intelligence unit of FireEye, a company
that manages large network breaches, also concluded that the drop-off began a
year before Mr. Obama and Mr. Xi announced their accord in the White House Rose
Garden. In a conclusion that is largely echoed by American intelligence
officials, the study said the change is part of Mr. Xi's broad effort to bring
the Chinese military, which is considered one of the main sponsors of the
attacks, further under his control.

As a result, the same political forces that may be alleviating the theft of data
from American companies are also responsible for Mr. Xi's stunningly swift
crackdown on the Chinese media, bloggers and others who could challenge the
Communist Party.

''It's a mixed bag,'' said Kevin Mandia, the founder of Mandiant, now part of
FireEye, which first detailed the activities of a People's Liberation Army cyber
-arm, called Unit 61398, that had been responsible for some of the most highly
publicized thefts of American technology. ''We still see semiconductor companies
and aerospace firms attacked.''

But the daily barrage of attacks has diminished, which Mr. Mandia attributed to
''public pressure'' from, among others, the Justice Department's decision to
indict five members of the P.L.A. unit about a year after its activities were
exposed.

Today, Unit 61398 appears to be largely out of business, its hackers dispersed
to other military, private and intelligence units. Many China scholars and legal
experts remain skeptical that the Chinese are deterred by American indictments,
since the P.L.A. officers are unlikely to see the inside of an American
courtroom. But John P. Carlin, the assistant attorney general for national
security, said the report validated his strategy.

''The lesson is that when you figure out who has done this kind of theft, don't
fear making it public,'' he said. ''This is a slow process, but we are beginning
to make people realize that even in cyberspace, laws and norms are applicable.''

Mr. Obama and Mr. Xi drew up their agreement narrowly. It covers intellectual
property theft -- Chinese cybercriminals have stolen everything from designs for
the F-35 fighter jet to the design of gas distribution networks -- but not
ordinary espionage against government targets.

So, for example, the administration has not publicly talked about penalizing
China for the theft of personal data on roughly 22 million Americans, whose
security-clearance information was taken from the Office of Personnel
Management. In fact, the administration has never publicly blamed China for that
theft, although the director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., did
talk about China's role once, before he was told by the administration not to
refer to any specific country.

As recently as last week, senior administration officials were in Beijing trying
to flesh out the agreement between the two presidents. Participants say that
among the points of discussion was how to set up a hotline through which the two
countries can alert each other to malicious software they have detected in
global networks, with the expectation that Chinese and American investigators
would work to find its source.

Establishing such norms of behavior is far more likely to be effective than
attempting to negotiate a treaty, according to outside experts who have been
trying to devise the cyberequivalent of arms-control agreements.

''Treaties are not verifiable in the cyberarena,'' said Joseph Nye, a Harvard
professor known for his studies of how nations use ''soft power,'' who in recent
years has turned to the problem of regulating activity in cyberspace. ''The same
code can be benign or a weapon depending on the user's intent,'' he said. For
example, a six-digit code that unlocks a cellphone is a protection for the user
-- and a potential weapon for a hacker.

''So instead of focusing on the weapons, you have to focus on targets,'' Mr. Nye
said. ''You start by saying that you don't target something that has a clearly
civilian use, like a power grid.''

Mr. Nye and Michael Chertoff, the secretary of Homeland Security during the Bush
administration, who now runs a private firm that is deeply involved in
cybersecurity, were among the lead authors of a report to be published on
Tuesday by the Global Commission on Internet Governance that will describe those
norms to the United Nations and other groups.

Just how fundamentally the Chinese are changing is a matter of debate. There is
some evidence, American intelligence officials say, that while the People's
Liberation Army is not stealing as much on behalf of Chinese state-owned firms,
much of the hacking activity has been shifted to the intelligence agencies,
which can make the case that they are stealing national security secrets, not
commercial information. Often, the difference is blurry, especially when the
target is, say, the design of a satellite or a ship.

Even after Mr. Obama and Mr. Xi announced their agreement last fall, American
officials have said they have discovered malware in power grids, cellphone
networks and other purely civilian targets. But it is unclear whether that
malicious software is intended to collect information about users, shut the
system down or both.

The FireEye study concluded that as early as 2014, around the time of the
indictment of the P.L.A.'s officers and hackers, the Chinese government had
already been modifying its approach to cyberoperations.

The study of 72 Chinese hacking groups showed a sharp drop-off in the volume of
attacks. But as recently as March, FireEye saw efforts to obtain information on
American military projects by stealing access credentials to a contractor, and
there has been continual theft of personal information from health care
providers. The Chinese hacking groups have also focused on non-American targets,
including Russia, South Korea and Vietnam, and have sometimes aimed at targets
related to the disputes over Chinese claims in the South China Sea.

The report concludes that Chinese attacks have decreased in volume, but
increased in sophistication. The result is that Chinese hackers are now acting
more like Russian hackers: They pick their targets more carefully, and cover
their tracks.

''We see a threat that is less voluminous but more focused, calculated, and
still successful in compromising corporate networks,'' the report said.

Follow The New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/21/us/politics/china-us-cyber-spying.html

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 27, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

British Politics in Chaos as Vote Result Sinks In, Sidelining Key U.S. Ally

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1582 words


American officials struggling to reimagine their strategy after Britain's
decision to divorce the European Union say the most urgent challenge will be to
find a way to replace their most reliable, sympathetic partner in the hallways
of European capitals. It will not be easy.

No country shares Washington's worldview quite the way Britain does, they say;
it has long been the United States' most willing security ally, most effective
intelligence partner and greatest enthusiast of the free-trade mantras that have
been a keystone of America's internationalist approach. And few nations were as
willing to put a thumb as firmly on the scales of European debates in ways that
benefit the United States.

Now that quiet diplomatic leverage -- including moderating European trade
demands and strong-arming nations to contribute more to NATO military missions
-- is suddenly diminished.

Even if Britain eventually regains its influence on the Continent, a big if, it
will be deeply distracted for years. Moreover, the loss of Britain's strong
voice in Europe comes at a particularly bad moment: just as the United States
and its allies are debating how to handle a revanchist Russia and reinvigorate
NATO, hurry along an American-European trade pact that has been languishing, and
work through a diplomatic settlement in Syria that could relieve the migrant
crisis in Europe.

''When Vladimir Putin is cheering,'' David Miliband, the former British foreign
minister, said on ''Meet the Press'' Sunday, ''then you know you have got a
problem in the international system.''

And then, of course, there is the threat of the Islamic State, which has found
in Europe a new battlefield, one in which the development and sharing of
intelligence, seamlessly, is critical.

Addressing those challenges was daunting enough, American officials say, in the
face of the tenor of the American presidential campaign, particularly Donald J.
Trump's questioning of whether alliances are worth it if allies are not willing
to pay more for American protection.

But now, with Britain's exit, called Brexit, whatever passed for long-term plans
-- a Europe that gradually takes a greater role in its region and the Middle
East as America devotes more attention to Asia -- are imperiled.

Like the Arab Spring, the result of Britain's referendum took Washington by
surprise. As late as early last week there was something between a hope and an
assumption that the vote would ''go the other way,'' as Secretary of State John
Kerry said in Rome on Sunday. As a result, there was no serious planning for the
all-consuming work of reimagining the European relationship, a task that will
face President Obama for the next six months, and his successor for years to
come.

Mr. Kerry, usually the optimist, sounded almost downbeat as he arrived in Italy.
He did not make any references to a ''shriveled Europe,'' as one of his top
aides did in a conversation over the weekend. But he made clear that European
allies are also going to have to rethink their relationships with the United
States.

''Twenty-two of the nations in the E.U. are members of NATO,'' he said less than
a minute into his meeting with his Italian counterpart, Paolo Gentiloni. He
warned that the most critical step was to ''work together to provide as much
continuity, as much stability, as much certainty as possible'' to ''protect the
values and interests that we share in common.''

The problem is that no one shares those values and interests quite the way the
British do, a belief that no American diplomat would utter in public for fear of
offending other members of the European Union. But British officials who have
been at the center of that daily interaction say the concern goes both ways.

''I worry that we will have less clout on our own: In the future we won't have
as much influence on Europe's response to Putin's transgressions, Iran's nuclear
ambitions, or the E.U.'s foreign and security policy,'' said Peter Westmacott,
one of Britain's most experienced diplomats and, until January, ambassador to
the United States. ''And we will be less able to ensure it is U.S.-friendly.''

He added that without Britain's direct involvement, Europe was likely to be less
enthusiastic about free trade.

Still, Mr. Westmacott noted that ''we should be able to cooperate much as in the
past on counterterrorism, on intelligence, on cyber and on military issues,''
assuming that ''our economy does not shrink too much as markets, investors and
the Scots take stock of Thursday's outcome.''

All of which raises the question: If Britain can no longer play that
indispensable role for Washington, surely there is another country that can?
Perhaps, but it is hard to think of who.

It is not a role Germany has shown a real willingness to step into. Its
post-World War II ethos still holds it back from committing combat forces, and
it is not a member of the inner circle of intelligence sharing called the ''Five
Eyes,'' a club made up of the Anglo victors of World War II. (The other three
are Canada, Australia and New Zealand.) A lengthy negotiation to improve the
intelligence relationship last year ended with only modest changes.

For all of its cooperation with the United States on a variety of issues,
Germany still harbors deep suspicions of the United States that were fueled by
the revelations from Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency
contractor, including the American surveillance of Chancellor Angela Merkel's
cellphone conversations.

And American officials were shocked recently when Germany's foreign minister,
Frank-Walter Steinmeier, warned that recent NATO exercises to deter Russia from
thinking about destabilizing Poland and the Baltic members of the military
alliance amounted to ''saber-rattling and warmongering.''

France has also not been as natural a fit with the United States as Britain.
While relations have changed drastically since the George W. Bush
administration, Paris often goes its own way, including its recent strategy for
restarting Israeli-Palestinian talks. The Italians, for their part, are too
broke, the Netherlands is too small, and Poland does not yet have the clout of
older NATO members.

Moreover, there is a question of leadership.

British leaders were the Europeans most closely aligned with the American
negotiating position in the major trade and investment deal being hashed out
between the United States and some of its largest trading partners.

When Mr. Obama visited London in April, he warned voters that Britain would be
excluded from the deal if it left the bloc and would ''go to the end of the
queue'' for its own bilateral trade agreement. But the United States would also
lose Britain's voice in moderating Europe's trade demands.

The intelligence challenges created by Brexit are more subtle. Bilateral
cooperation will continue as tightly or more tightly than ever to try to prevent
terrorism. But the hope that Britain could improve intelligence sharing among
the major European powers -- something that is sorely needed -- is most likely
dashed even as terrorism threats have risen.

Over a lunch near the White House a few weeks ago, a senior intelligence
official said the obvious solution to intelligence gaps was a far more powerful,
Pan-European intelligence service.

It is hard to imagine a new intelligence institution, however, without MI-6 and
GCHQ -- the British equivalents of the C.I.A. and the N.S.A. -- playing a lead
role. And given Britain's likely preoccupation with the Brexit fallout, it is
far from clear how high a priority a new intelligence organization, or a
rethinking of NATO strategy, would be for Britain.

There is a counterargument that Britain could emerge as a stronger security
partner for the United States, that it will value its role in NATO and other
institutions all the more.

Adm. James Stavridis, who served as the 16th supreme allied commander in Europe
and is the dean of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University,
presented that view in an article in Foreign Policy. He said that a ''new
British government will presumably be a very motivated NATO partner.''

''Now that it has chosen to become a relatively marginal economic player on the
international stage,'' he continued, ''it will have to look for new ways to
demonstrate value in its partnership with the United States if it hopes to
maintain anything like the 'special relationship' it has become accustomed to
(and dependent on).''

But even if Britain seeks a more active role in NATO, it may not be accepted as
one by its other members; Britain has often been referred to as an American
puppet -- with other states noting that former Prime Minister Tony Blair
followed Mr. Bush into Iraq with few questions.

There is nothing permanent about political unions and alliances, of course, and
some argue that Britain's departure from the European Union is not necessarily a
calamity for Washington.

As James F. Jeffrey, a former American diplomat in the Middle East, and Simon
Henderson of the Washington Institute wrote last week, ''The U.S. and U.K. were
bosom allies for 30 years before Britain joined the E.U.''

But part of what made the special relationship special in an era of global
diplomacy was Britain's ability to act for Washington with the Europeans, to
bridge the gap. Now, as one White House official put it, the bridge has been
wiped out by a surge that few predicted.

Follow David E. Sanger on Twitter @sangernyt.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/27/world/europe/john-kerry-brexit-european-union.
html

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         July 4, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Democratic and Republican Conventions Lure and Repel Visitors to Host Cities;
Itineraries

BYLINE: AMY ZIPKIN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1334 words



HIGHLIGHT: Travelers should expect convenient lodging, transportation and other
needs to be difficult to obtain in Cleveland and Philadelphia later this month.


With tens of thousands of out-of-towners expected to descend on Philadelphia and
Cleveland this month for the political conventions, most other travelers may
want to stay away. But whether for business meetings, personal visits or other
reasons, many others will not be able to avoid traveling to those cities.

David L. Hackett, a labor and employment lawyer at Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney
in Philadelphia, is counting on being able to carry out his normal routine when
the Democratic National Convention arrives this month.

"I would not anticipate the general disruption for this convention that the
pope's visit caused," he said. Pope Francis' visit to Philadelphia in 2015 led
to major restrictions in the downtown area of Center City and interstate
closings.

Still, for Mr. Hackett, it will not entirely be business as usual during the
convention. He has advised out-of-town clients to avoid trips that week and said
he would be using Skype or rescheduling in-office meetings. He said he, the
Philadelphia office and his clients would "play it safe."

As the presidential nominating process intensifies, the country's attention will
be directed to the Republican National Convention at the Quicken Loans Arena in
Cleveland, July 18 to 21, and the Democratic National Convention at the Wells
Fargo Center in Philadelphia, July 25 to 28.

Between protests, special group receptions and general revelry, the most popular
restaurants and top tourist attractions will be catering to extra visitors. And
business travelers or tourists who are planning to visit those cities need to be
aware that complications may arise with limited accommodations, restricted
pedestrian access and unexpected demonstrations.

"To be very honest, if you don't have a reason to be in Cleveland or Philly for
these conventions, stay away," said Henry Harteveldt, a travel analyst with
Atmosphere Research.

Both cities recently have been host to major events that attracted the nation's
attention. In June, after the Cleveland Cavaliers won the National Basketball
Association championship, the city celebrated with a parade that an estimated
1.3 million people attended. And last fall, Philadelphia came to a standstill at
times as Pope Francis greeted hundreds of thousands of people.

This time, the numbers are smaller. Cleveland is anticipating 50,000 visitors,
as is Philadelphia. Still, like the papal visit, each convention is designated a
national special security event by the Department of Homeland Security.

"It provides a mechanism for state and local officials to coordinate and fund
their efforts to secure the event venue," said Daniel Kaniewski, a senior fellow
at the Center for Cyber & Homeland Security at George Washington University. The
$50 million given to each city has gone toward the purchase of barriers, riot
gear, police overtime pay and other related items.

Security will be extra tight, especially after the contentious primary season.
Cleveland has established an event zone adjacent to the convention center, and
it has established restrictions on where individuals and groups can assemble and
protest. The restrictions banned legal weapons like air rifles, but also
umbrellas with metal tips, coolers, sleeping bags and tennis balls. A federal
judge struck down the rules after the American Civil Liberties Union of Ohio
filed a lawsuit.

The city and the A.C.L.U. reached a settlement on June 24 governing protests and
marches. The event zone will now be smaller. The changes are likely to increase
the visibility of demonstrators along the parade route, and there is additional
time to apply for parade permits.

However, Nicole Mainor, a spokeswoman for the Secret Service, said, "When people
are acting in a lawful manner, there won't be any corrective action."

Definitive road closings are not yet available. That does not surprise George
Taylor, vice president of operations at iJet, a risk management company. The
authorities are trying to keep some security plans restricted to limit the
ability of anyone who wants to cause trouble to plan ahead, he said.

For political tourists and others, rooms are expected to be available, although
not close by. With the vast majority of accommodations spoken for, Destination
Cleveland, the area's visitors bureau, is directing travelers an hour west to
Sandusky or south to Canton. And the Greater Philadelphia Hotel Association said
that by convention time, the availability would probably be in suburbia with
transportation either on Amtrak or commuter rail. "Still not a bad option," Ed
Grose, executive director of the hotel association, said.

In Philadelphia, James Adamson, general manager of the Hotel Monaco, a Kimpton
hotel, is anticipating a full house, even though the hotel is not hosting a
delegation and is about five and a half miles from the Wells Fargo Center. Of
268 rooms, 85 percent are committed to the Democratic National Convention. When
Pope Francis visited, the property was in the thick of the action, with metal
detectors and fences a block away. This time, Mr. Adamson expects to have food
and linens delivered without interruption. Previously, "we had to stock up," he
said. And trash will be picked up regularly. Still, he has denied requests for
time off, enhanced an on-site security presence and has seen typical summer
nightly rates skyrocket to $800 and above from the mid-$200 range a year ago.

His counterpart at the Kimpton Schofield Hotel in Cleveland, Adam Gurgiolo, does
not know anything about his guest list. "We still don't know who is going to
comprise our block. We won't know until the day before," he said. Another
question is whether guests will be arriving by car or plane. About 43 percent of
the United States population is within 500 miles of the city.

For those traveling by air to Cleveland, United is adding 20 flights. Once on
the ground, there will be "staff throughout the airport, on the secure side and
the public side," said Fred Szabo, interim director of port control. A command
center will operate from the Friday before the convention until the Sunday
after.

In Philadelphia, American Airlines, which operates 70 percent of the flights in
and out of the city, does not expect to add any additional planes. But efforts
are planned to help conference attendees repack their souvenirs. "We want to be
able to answer the question, 'How do you get all this stuff onto the aircraft?'"
said Victoria Lupica, a spokeswoman for American Airlines.

Amtrak anticipates no changes in service on the Northeast Corridor.

In Cleveland, Henry E. Billingsley II, a maritime lawyer at Tucker Ellis, plans
to bicycle to work as usual. His office is not in the event zone.

For the recent Cavaliers event, he expected traffic to be an issue and it was.
But the crowd was in a festive mood. "That's not necessarily true about the
R.N.C. and could be a concern," he said. Still, he gives the city high marks for
its preparations to handle potential conflicts or protests.

Mr. Hackett, the employment lawyer, said he would monitor things, including
whether to have employees work remotely.

The possibility of complications could give some pause. "There's an alarming
potential for violence around the convention venues by different groups," Mr.
Harteveldt, the travel analyst, said. And traffic delays and rerouting, and the
higher cost of hotels and difficulty getting restaurant reservations, make these
places less appealing to visit, he added.

PHOTOS: Left, workers prepare near the Wells Fargo Center in Philadelphia for
the Democratic National Convention. The Quicken Loans Arena in Cleveland will
host the Republican National Convention. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT ROURKE/ASSOCIATED
PRESS; MARK GILLISPIE/ASSOCIATED PRESS); David L. Hackett, a lawyer in
Philadelphia, plans on continuing his normal routine during the convention, from
July 25 to 28. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    A Revitalized Cleveland Is Ready for Its Close-Up
     ·    Will Dominant Images of Conventions Be of Unity or Protest?


LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 5, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Political Conventions Lure and Repel Visitors to Host Cities

BYLINE: By AMY ZIPKIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1248 words


With tens of thousands of out-of-towners expected to descend on Philadelphia and
Cleveland this month for the political conventions, most other travelers may
want to stay away. But whether for business meetings, personal visits or other
reasons, many others will not be able to avoid traveling to those cities.

David L. Hackett, a labor and employment lawyer at Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney
in Philadelphia, is counting on being able to carry out his normal routine when
the Democratic National Convention arrives this month.

''I would not anticipate the general disruption for this convention that the
pope's visit caused,'' he said. Pope Francis' visit to Philadelphia in 2015 led
to major restrictions in the downtown area of Center City and interstate
closings.

Still, for Mr. Hackett, it will not entirely be business as usual during the
convention. He has advised out-of-town clients to avoid trips that week and said
he would be using Skype or rescheduling in-office meetings. He said he, the
Philadelphia office and his clients would ''play it safe.''

As the presidential nominating process intensifies, the country's attention will
be directed to the Republican National Convention at the Quicken Loans Arena in
Cleveland, July 18 to 21, and the Democratic National Convention at the Wells
Fargo Center in Philadelphia, July 25 to 28.

Between protests, special group receptions and general revelry, the most popular
restaurants and top tourist attractions will be catering to extra visitors. And
business travelers or tourists who are planning to visit those cities need to be
aware that complications may arise with limited accommodations, restricted
pedestrian access and unexpected demonstrations.

''To be very honest, if you don't have a reason to be in Cleveland or Philly for
these conventions, stay away,'' said Henry Harteveldt, a travel analyst with
Atmosphere Research.

Both cities recently have been host to major events that attracted the nation's
attention. In June, after the Cleveland Cavaliers won the National Basketball
Association championship, the city celebrated with a parade that an estimated
1.3 million people attended. And last fall, Philadelphia came to a standstill at
times as Pope Francis greeted hundreds of thousands of people.

This time, the numbers are smaller. Cleveland is anticipating 50,000 visitors,
as is Philadelphia. Still, like the papal visit, each convention is designated a
national special security event by the Department of Homeland Security.

''It provides a mechanism for state and local officials to coordinate and fund
their efforts to secure the event venue,'' said Daniel Kaniewski, a senior
fellow at the Center for Cyber & Homeland Security at George Washington
University. The $50 million given to each city has gone toward the purchase of
barriers, riot gear, police overtime pay and other related items.

Security will be extra tight, especially after the contentious primary season.
Cleveland has established an event zone adjacent to the convention center, and
it has established restrictions on where individuals and groups can assemble and
protest. The restrictions banned legal weapons like air rifles, but also
umbrellas with metal tips, coolers, sleeping bags and tennis balls. A federal
judge struck down the rules after the American Civil Liberties Union of Ohio
filed a lawsuit.

The city and the A.C.L.U. reached a settlement on June 24 governing protests and
marches. The event zone will now be smaller. The changes are likely to increase
the visibility of demonstrators along the parade route, and there is additional
time to apply for parade permits.

However, Nicole Mainor, a spokeswoman for the Secret Service, said, ''When
people are acting in a lawful manner, there won't be any corrective action.''

Definitive road closings are not yet available. That does not surprise George
Taylor, vice president of operations at iJet, a risk management company. The
authorities are trying to keep some security plans restricted to limit the
ability of anyone who wants to cause trouble to plan ahead, he said.

For political tourists and others, rooms are expected to be available, although
not close by. With the vast majority of accommodations spoken for, Destination
Cleveland, the area's visitors bureau, is directing travelers an hour west to
Sandusky or south to Canton. And the Greater Philadelphia Hotel Association said
that by convention time, the availability would probably be in suburbia with
transportation either on Amtrak or commuter rail. ''Still not a bad option,'' Ed
Grose, executive director of the hotel association, said.

In Philadelphia, James Adamson, general manager of the Hotel Monaco, a Kimpton
hotel, is anticipating a full house, even though the hotel is not hosting a
delegation and is about five and a half miles from the Wells Fargo Center. Of
268 rooms, 85 percent are committed to the Democratic National Convention. When
Pope Francis visited, the property was in the thick of the action, with metal
detectors and fences a block away. This time, Mr. Adamson expects to have food
and linens delivered without interruption. Previously, ''we had to stock up,''
he said. And trash will be picked up regularly. Still, he has denied requests
for time off, enhanced an on-site security presence and has seen typical summer
nightly rates skyrocket to $800 and above from the mid-$200 range a year ago.

His counterpart at the Kimpton Schofield Hotel in Cleveland, Adam Gurgiolo, does
not know anything about his guest list. ''We still don't know who is going to
comprise our block. We won't know until the day before,'' he said. Another
question is whether guests will be arriving by car or plane. About 43 percent of
the United States population is within 500 miles of the city.

For those traveling by air to Cleveland, United is adding 20 flights. Once on
the ground, there will be ''staff throughout the airport, on the secure side and
the public side,'' said Fred Szabo, interim director of port control. A command
center will operate from the Friday before the convention until the Sunday
after.

In Philadelphia, American Airlines, which operates 70 percent of the flights in
and out of the city, does not expect to add any additional planes. But efforts
are planned to help conference attendees repack their souvenirs. ''We want to be
able to answer the question, 'How do you get all this stuff onto the
aircraft?''' said Victoria Lupica, a spokeswoman for American Airlines.

Amtrak anticipates no changes in service on the Northeast Corridor.

In Cleveland, Henry E. Billingsley II, a maritime lawyer at Tucker Ellis, plans
to bicycle to work as usual. His office is not in the event zone.

For the recent Cavaliers event, he expected traffic to be an issue and it was.
But the crowd was in a festive mood. ''That's not necessarily true about the
R.N.C. and could be a concern,'' he said. Still, he gives the city high marks
for its preparations to handle potential conflicts or protests.

Mr. Hackett, the employment lawyer, said he would monitor things, including
whether to have employees work remotely.

The possibility of complications could give some pause. ''There's an alarming
potential for violence around the convention venues by different groups,'' Mr.
Harteveldt, the travel analyst, said. And traffic delays and rerouting, and the
higher cost of hotels and difficulty getting restaurant reservations, make these
places less appealing to visit, he added.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/05/business/democratic-and-republican-conventions
-could-hamper-travel.html

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, workers prepare near the Wells Fargo Center in
Philadelphia for the Democratic National Convention. The Quicken Loans Arena in
Cleveland will host the Republican National Convention. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT
ROURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
MARK GILLISPIE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 David L. Hackett, a lawyer in Philadelphia, plans on continuing his normal
routine during the convention, from July 25 to 28. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA
KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        July 6, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Hillary Clinton's Email Was Probably Hacked, Experts Say

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 1198 words



HIGHLIGHT: But because it is unlikely any intruders left signs of their entry,
the experts say, it is impossible to know for certain if the email was
compromised.


When the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, said on Tuesday that his investigators
had no "direct evidence" that Hillary Clinton's email account had been
"successfully hacked," both private experts and federal investigators
immediately understood his meaning: It very likely had been breached, but the
intruders were far too skilled to leave evidence of their work.

Mr. Comey described, in fairly blistering terms, a set of email practices that
left Mrs. Clinton's systems wide open to Russian and Chinese hackers, and an
array of others. She had no full-time cybersecurity professional monitoring her
system. She took her BlackBerry everywhere she went, "sending and receiving
work-related emails in the territory of sophisticated adversaries." Her use of
"a personal email domain was both known by a large number of people and readily
apparent."

In the end, the risks created by Mrs. Clinton's insistence on keeping her
communications on a private server may prove to be a larger issue than the
relatively small amount of classified data investigators said they found on her
system. But the central mystery - who got into the system, if anyone - may never
be resolved.

"Reading between the lines and following Comey's logic, it does sound as if the
F.B.I. believes a compromise of Clinton's email is more likely than not," said
Adam Segal, the author of "Hacked World Order," who studies cyberissues at the
Council on Foreign Relations. "Sophisticated attackers would have known of the
existence of the account, would have targeted it and would not have been seen."

Mr. Comey couched his concern on Tuesday by repeating the intelligence
community's favorite phrase - "we assess" - four times, but ultimately reached
no hard-and-fast conclusion. "We assess it is possible that hostile actors
gained access to Secretary Clinton's personal email account," he said.

But that was notable: Until Mr. Comey spoke, Mrs. Clinton and her campaign have
said that her server - there were actually several, in succession - was never
hacked. A State Department inspector general's report issued this year reported
what looked like several attempts at "spear phishing" - fake emails intended to
get a user to click on a link that would install malware on a computer - but
there is no evidence that those links were activated.

Mrs. Clinton, and her campaign, have always maintained that the server was
secure. President Obama backed her up in an interview last October on CBS's "60
Minutes." "I don't think it posed a national security problem," he said.

But Mr. Comey painted a different picture.

"Hostile actors gained access to the private commercial email accounts of people
with whom Secretary Clinton was in regular contact," he said.

And that would have meant that tracking the trail of electronic breadcrumbs back
to her server would have been a pretty simple task. After that, their ability to
break in would have been a mix of skill and luck, but they had plenty of time to
get it right.

Mrs. Clinton's best defense, and one she cannot utter in public, is that
whatever the risks of keeping her own email server, that server was certainly no
more vulnerable than the State Department's. Had she held an unclassified
account in the State Department's official system, as the rules required, she
certainly would have been hacked.

Russian intruders were thoroughly inside that system for years - since at least
2007 - before the State Department shut its system down several times to perform
a digital exorcism in late 2014, nearly two years after Mrs. Clinton left
office.

Either out of embarrassment or to protect its sources of intelligence, the Obama
administration has never publicly blamed Russia for stealing data from the
unclassified systems at the State Department and the White House, just as it has
never publicly identified China as the culprit in the theft of
security-clearance information on nearly 22 million Americans stored by the
Office of Personnel Management.

Mrs. Clinton's campaign has insisted that the server did have some cyber
protection software, but they have not said what kind.

But security software is useless unless it is updated constantly to reflect
threats that change every day. Even then, there are ways for a determined,
state-sponsored hacker to get in. The best hackers use a gap in the software
that has never been discovered before called a "zero day," suggesting there are
zero days of warning about its dangers, or they wait for a user error, including
clicking on a spear-phishing link.

Perhaps Mr. Comey's most surprising suggestion was that Mrs. Clinton had used
her private email while in the territory of what he called "sophisticated
adversaries." That usually means China and Russia, but could include visits
elsewhere, including Eastern Europe.

James A. Lewis, a former government cyber security expert who now studies the
cyber activities of nations at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies in Washington, said, "If she used it in Russia or China, they almost
certainly picked it up."

Once the hardware is in a foreign country, and on its phone networks, it is
particularly vulnerable. Malware can be placed on it that could turn the phone
into a listening device. One lurking question is whether Mrs. Clinton's own
practice of taking the phone around the world made it susceptible to tinkering
by a foreign government.

The State Department worries so much about corrupted cellphones that visitors to
the secretary's suite on the seventh floor must place their devices in lockers
near the guard's desk. Mrs. Clinton, her campaign said on Wednesday, took her
smartphone to the State Department but kept it in a room outside the secure area
around her office suite.

Moreover, for truly sensitive data, the State Department does not use its own
networks at all. It quietly uses a network run by one of the major intelligence
agencies, according to officials familiar with the system. That suggests a lack
of confidence that State's classified systems can be fully trusted.

Since the disclosure that Mrs. Clinton used private email, officials in the
government and many outside it have been monitoring the internet, looking to see
if any of her messages, or those directed to her, made their way into the public
domain. Documents from the Democratic National Committee began circulating after
it announced a breach that also appears to have been conducted by Russian
intelligence.

Nothing from Mrs. Clinton has surfaced. But that does not mean they were not
stolen, only that they have not been made public.

Follow The New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.

PHOTO: Hillary Clinton traveling while secretary of state in 2011. One expert
said her cellphone was most likely hacked in Russia or China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS)

Related Articles


     ·    James Comey's Rebuke of Hillary Clinton Fits a 3-Decade Pattern
     ·    Hillary Clinton v. the F.B.I.: What They Said About Her Emails
     ·    F.B.I. Director James Comey Recommends No Charges for Hillary Clinton
          on Email
     ·    F.B.I. Findings Damage Many of Hillary Clinton's Claims
     ·    F.B.I. Interviews Hillary Clinton Over Private Email Server


LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        July 7, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

Where to Go in Toronto;
5 Places

BYLINE: MICHAEL KAMINER

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 447 words



HIGHLIGHT: The turbocharged growth of Toronto's downtown long bypassed Corktown,
but now the scruffy historic patch is attracting attention.


Lower rents and uncommon architectural stock are drawing entrepreneurs to
Corktown, on downtown Toronto's eastern fringes. For years, the turbocharged
growth of the city's downtown bypassed the area. Empty storefronts outnumbered
its well-preserved 19th-century rowhouses, the remnants of working class
Irish-Catholic immigrants who provided Corktown's name. Public housing in the
neighborhood's Regent Park also seemed to inhibit newcomers. But as condos
sprout on Corktown's edges, small businesses are setting up along the main
roads, King and Queen Streets. Corktown remains one of downtown's quieter
quarters, but the buzz around this historic patch keeps growing.

Roselle Desserts

Bruce Lee and Stephanie Duong opened this jewel-box bakery and pastry shop in
February 2015 after studying culinary arts in Paris and Hong Kong; the lush
banana cream pie éclair is a signature, along with meltingly soft caramels.

362 King Street East; 416-368-8188; roselleto.com

Impact Kitchen

Kettle bells and medicine balls decorate this loftlike restaurant opened by Josh
Broun, a former personal trainer, last October; paleo breakfasts, intense bone
broths and gluten-free pastries have made it a new power-dining spot. Superb
coffee comes from Detour Coffee Roasters in Burlington, Ontario.

573 King Street East; 416-306-1986; impactkitchen.ca

MADE Design

Shaun Moore (pictured) relocated his store/gallery in March 2015 after nine
years on trendy Dundas Street West; a skylight now illuminates his meticulous
Canadian-designed objets, like sleek walnut serving trays (110 Canadian dollars)
from the Edmonton, Alberta, makers On Our Table and Simon Devost's ceramic bowls
shaped like the Toronto Islands ($600 for a set).

394 King Street East; 416-607-6384; madedesign.goodsie.com

Cocina Economica

Mexico's family-run cocinas economicas --- home-based restaurants -- inspired
the local chef David Sidhu to open this riotously decorated bi-level hut in May
2015. Signatures include molcajete, a sensual blend of Oaxacan cheese, pinto
beans, pork chorizo, cactus and steak Cecina. Pastel imposible (rich chocolate
cake and flan baked together) makes an irresistible dessert.

141 Berkeley Street; 647-748-4777; playacabana.ca/cocina

Odin Cafe & Bar

Inspired by the animated vibe of Scandinavian coffee bars, Thomas Junek and
Patrick Tu enlisted the Toronto designer David Grant-Rubash, who was schooled in
Copenhagen, to create a kind of cyber-Nordic fantasy for their cafe and lounge.
Evening "Viking Feasts" feature wood-fired meats and vegetables.

514 King Street East; 647-350-6346; odinhus.tumblr.com

PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. ADAM HUGGINS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 MAP

Related Articles


     ·    Toronto's Ethnic Buffet


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 7, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hillary Clinton's Email Was Probably Hacked, Experts Say

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1127 words


When the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, said on Tuesday that his investigators
had no ''direct evidence'' that Hillary Clinton's email account had been
''successfully hacked,'' both private experts and federal investigators
immediately understood his meaning: It very likely had been breached, but the
intruders were far too skilled to leave evidence of their work.

Mr. Comey described, in fairly blistering terms, a set of email practices that
left Mrs. Clinton's systems wide open to Russian and Chinese hackers, and an
array of others. She had no full-time cybersecurity professional monitoring her
system. She took her BlackBerry everywhere she went, ''sending and receiving
work-related emails in the territory of sophisticated adversaries.'' Her use of
''a personal email domain was both known by a large number of people and readily
apparent.''

In the end, the risks created by Mrs. Clinton's insistence on keeping her
communications on a private server may prove to be a larger issue than the
relatively small amount of classified data investigators said they found on her
system. But the central mystery -- who got into the system, if anyone -- may
never be resolved.

''Reading between the lines and following Comey's logic, it does sound as if the
F.B.I. believes a compromise of Clinton's email is more likely than not,'' said
Adam Segal, the author of ''Hacked World Order,'' who studies cyberissues at the
Council on Foreign Relations. ''Sophisticated attackers would have known of the
existence of the account, would have targeted it and would not have been seen.''

Mr. Comey couched his concern on Tuesday by repeating the intelligence
community's favorite phrase -- ''we assess'' -- four times, but ultimately
reached no hard-and-fast conclusion. ''We assess it is possible that hostile
actors gained access to Secretary Clinton's personal email account,'' he said.

But that was notable: Until Mr. Comey spoke, Mrs. Clinton and her campaign have
said that her server -- there were actually several, in succession -- was never
hacked. A State Department inspector general's report issued this year reported
what looked like several attempts at ''spear phishing'' -- fake emails intended
to get a user to click on a link that would install malware on a computer -- but
there is no evidence that those links were activated.

Mrs. Clinton, and her campaign, have always maintained that the server was
secure. President Obama backed her up in an interview last October on CBS's ''60
Minutes.'' ''I don't think it posed a national security problem,'' he said.

But Mr. Comey painted a different picture.

''Hostile actors gained access to the private commercial email accounts of
people with whom Secretary Clinton was in regular contact,'' he said.

And that would have meant that tracking the trail of electronic breadcrumbs back
to her server would have been a pretty simple task. After that, their ability to
break in would have been a mix of skill and luck, but they had plenty of time to
get it right.

Mrs. Clinton's best defense, and one she cannot utter in public, is that
whatever the risks of keeping her own email server, that server was certainly no
more vulnerable than the State Department's. Had she held an unclassified
account in the State Department's official system, as the rules required, she
certainly would have been hacked.

Russian intruders were thoroughly inside that system for years -- since at least
2007 -- before the State Department shut its system down several times to
perform a digital exorcism in late 2014, nearly two years after Mrs. Clinton
left office.

Either out of embarrassment or to protect its sources of intelligence, the Obama
administration has never publicly blamed Russia for stealing data from the
unclassified systems at the State Department and the White House, just as it has
never publicly identified China as the culprit in the theft of
security-clearance information on nearly 22 million Americans stored by the
Office of Personnel Management.

Mrs. Clinton's campaign has insisted that the server did have some cyber
protection software, but they have not said what kind.

But security software is useless unless it is updated constantly to reflect
threats that change every day. Even then, there are ways for a determined,
state-sponsored hacker to get in. The best hackers use a gap in the software
that has never been discovered before called a ''zero day,'' suggesting there
are zero days of warning about its dangers, or they wait for a user error,
including clicking on a spear-phishing link.

Perhaps Mr. Comey's most surprising suggestion was that Mrs. Clinton had used
her private email while in the territory of what he called ''sophisticated
adversaries.'' That usually means China and Russia, but could include visits
elsewhere, including Eastern Europe.

James A. Lewis, a former government cyber security expert who now studies the
cyber activities of nations at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies in Washington, said, ''If she used it in Russia or China, they almost
certainly picked it up.''

Once the hardware is in a foreign country, and on its phone networks, it is
particularly vulnerable. Malware can be placed on it that could turn the phone
into a listening device. One lurking question is whether Mrs. Clinton's own
practice of taking the phone around the world made it susceptible to tinkering
by a foreign government.

The State Department worries so much about corrupted cellphones that visitors to
the secretary's suite on the seventh floor must place their devices in lockers
near the guard's desk. Mrs. Clinton, her campaign said on Wednesday, took her
smartphone to the State Department but kept it in a room outside the secure area
around her office suite.

Moreover, for truly sensitive data, the State Department does not use its own
networks at all. It quietly uses a network run by one of the major intelligence
agencies, according to officials familiar with the system. That suggests a lack
of confidence that State's classified systems can be fully trusted.

Since the disclosure that Mrs. Clinton used private email, officials in the
government and many outside it have been monitoring the internet, looking to see
if any of her messages, or those directed to her, made their way into the public
domain. Documents from the Democratic National Committee began circulating after
it announced a breach that also appears to have been conducted by Russian
intelligence.

Nothing from Mrs. Clinton has surfaced. But that does not mean they were not
stolen, only that they have not been made public.

Follow The New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/07/us/hillary-clintons-email-was-probably-hacked-
experts-say.html

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hillary Clinton traveling while secretary of state in 2011. One
expert said her cellphone was most likely hacked in Russia or China. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (Wordplay)

                             July 7, 2016 Thursday

Civil War Battle

BYLINE: DEB AMLEN

SECTION: CROSSWORDS

LENGTH: 602 words



HIGHLIGHT: A Friday themeless by Barry C. Silk.


 FRIDAY PUZZLE - We last saw Barry Silk in December of 2015 and he's back again
with a 72-worder to start our solving weekend.

I was of two minds about this puzzle: On the one hand, we have some very nice
entries, like BLACK FRIDAY, WAITING AREA, BED AND BREAKFAST, WINE STEWARD,
ANDREA DORIA, CYBERMONDAY, FINAGLED (always a fun word), TAKES LEAVE and RADAR
BLIPS. On the other hand, there seem to be a lot of shorter, inelegant entries,
like ASU, ORT, DOS, MSG, BTWO (it always stops me when numbers are spelled out),
AT IT and YSER. Starting and ending the puzzle with cross-referenced clues might
be an interesting element in the puzzle for some, but it might be disconcerting
for others.

Tricky Clues

- 12A: The TAB key on a keyboard helps justify paragraphs and indent. There is
also now the justify set of keys in most word-processing programs that help you
right- or left-justify or center the writing.

- 15A: Ilmenite is the primary ORE of TITANIUM, and it looks like this.

- 19A: Get to know the entry ORT. It's crosswordese, but it's an adorable word.
Also, Patrick Merrell has a cool puzzle-oriented website named Orts.

- 20A: Abel TASMAN was the first European to "discover" New Zealand. The Maori,
of course, were there first.

- 22A: The New York LIBERTY is a professional basketball team that is part of
the WNBA and whose home base is Madison Square Garden, or MSG.

- 28A: This is a common form of misdirection in puzzles. If a clue asks for an
"article" in a newspaper (El País is the highest circulation newspaper in
Spain), our first thought is probably about the actual articles in the paper.
The trick is that the word "the" or LAS in Spanish, is an article if you are
considering parts of speech.

- 31A: Stick a hyphen in there to read this one correctly. To re-lease an
apartment is to sublet.

- 52A: Honest to God, the name for a lumber mill employee is a SAWYER. Not a
sawer. Now I Know.

- 55- and 61A: I don't play World of Warcraft, a tremendously popular MMMORPG,
but apparently it has HAGs and IMPs in it.

- 59A: As someone who spends quite a bit of time commuting in the Port Authority
of New York, this one made me giggle and gets my vote for Clue of the Day. Nice
wordplay on "Port authority?" for WINE STEWARD.

- 62A: I'm all for wordplay, but in deference to survivors and family members of
the ANDREA DORIA tragedy, I probably would have clued this one straight.

- 63A: If you're wondering what DOS has to do with buns, think hair DOS.

- 25D: Wordplay alert! If you have a chance to hit a single (the clue is "Single
chance?"), you are AT BAT.

- 26D: I love the name GREBE, and I can see how some people might mistake it for
a duck.

- 29D: An All-Points Bulletin, or A.P.B. is the message broadcast to police
officers to alert them to a crime in progress, so it could definitely precede a
high-speed chase.

- 32D: ESSEN is a German city whose name means "eat."

- 47D: More wordplay! "Soul mate?" means something other than the one person you
were meant to be with.

- 56D: Read this one carefully: "Eri tu" is an ARIA from the Verdi opera, "Un
Ballo in Maschera." "Eres Tú" is a Spanish pop song originally performed in 1973
by the group Mocedades. So only the former is an ARIA.

- 59D: New Mexico State participates in the Western Athletic Conference, or
W.A.C.

Constructor's Notes:

I noticed BLACK FRIDAY and CYBER MONDAY had the same number of letters and I
thought it would be cool to start and end a puzzle with those.  I guess
technically the puzzle has a mini-theme, but nothing else in the puzzle relates
to those terms, so the rest of the puzzle is basically themeless.

Your thoughts?

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 10, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corktown Is Catching Up

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KAMINER

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; SURFACING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 435 words


Lower rents and uncommon architectural stock are drawing entrepreneurs to
Corktown, on downtown Toronto's eastern fringes. For years, the turbocharged
growth of the city's downtown bypassed the area. Empty storefronts outnumbered
its well-preserved 19th-century rowhouses, the remnants of working class
Irish-Catholic immigrants who provided Corktown's name. Public housing in the
neighborhood's Regent Park also seemed to inhibit newcomers. But as condos
sprout on Corktown's edges, small businesses are setting up along the main
roads, King and Queen Streets. Corktown remains one of downtown's quieter
quarters, but the buzz around this historic patch keeps growing.

Roselle Desserts

Bruce Lee and Stephanie Duong opened this jewel-box bakery and pastry shop in
February 2015 after studying culinary arts in Paris and Hong Kong; the lush
banana cream pie éclair is a signature, along with meltingly soft caramels.

362 King Street East; 416-368-8188; roselleto.com

Impact Kitchen

Kettle bells and medicine balls decorate this loftlike restaurant opened by Josh
Broun, a former personal trainer, last October; paleo breakfasts, intense bone
broths and gluten-free pastries have made it a new power-dining spot. Superb
coffee comes from Detour Coffee Roasters in Burlington, Ontario.

573 King Street East; 416-306-1986; impactkitchen.ca

MADE Design

Shaun Moore (pictured) relocated his store/gallery in March 2015 after nine
years on trendy Dundas Street West; a skylight now illuminates his meticulous
Canadian-designed objets, like sleek walnut serving trays (110 Canadian dollars)
from the Edmonton, Alberta, makers On Our Table and Simon Devost's ceramic bowls
shaped like the Toronto Islands ($600 for a set).

394 King Street East; 416-607-6384; madedesign.goodsie.com

Cocina Economica

Mexico's family-run cocinas economicas --- home-based restaurants -- inspired
the local chef David Sidhu to open this riotously decorated bi-level hut in May
2015. Signatures include molcajete, a sensual blend of Oaxacan cheese, pinto
beans, pork chorizo, cactus and steak Cecina. Pastel imposible (rich chocolate
cake and flan baked together) makes an irresistible dessert.

141 Berkeley Street; 647-748-4777; playacabana.ca/cocina

Odin Cafe & Bar

Inspired by the animated vibe of Scandinavian coffee bars, Thomas Junek and
Patrick Tu enlisted the Toronto designer David Grant-Rubash, who was schooled in
Copenhagen, to create a kind of cyber-Nordic fantasy for their cafe and lounge.
Evening ''Viking Feasts'' feature wood-fired meats and vegetables.

514 King Street East; 647-350-6346; odinhus.tumblr.com




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/10/travel/where-to-go-in-toronto.html

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. ADAM HUGGINS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        July 14, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

Scores Die in Nice, France, as Truck Plows Into Bastille Day Crowd

BYLINE: ALISSA J. RUBIN, ADAM NOSSITER and CHRISTOPHER MELE

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 1570 words



HIGHLIGHT: Graphic images showed the vehicle tearing through the crowd. The
driver was shot to death by the police, and France's president called the
assault "a monstrosity."


PARIS -- A Bastille Day fireworks celebration was shattered by death and mayhem
Thursday night in the southern French city of Nice when a large truck barreled
for more than a mile through an enormous crowd of spectators, crushing and
maiming dozens in what France's president called a terrorist assault. It came
eight months after the Paris attacks that traumatized the nation and all of
Europe.

Officials and witnesses in Nice said at least 84 people, including children,
were killed by the driver of the rampaging truck, who mowed them down on the
sidewalk. He was shot to death by the police as officers scrambled to respond on
what is France's most important annual holiday.

Graphic television and video images showed the truck accelerating and tearing
through the crowd, dozens of victims sprawled in its path, and the
bullet-riddled windshield of the vehicle. Municipal officials and police
officers described the truck as full of weapons and grenades.

"The horror, the horror has, once again, hit France," President François
Hollande said in a nationally televised address early Friday. He said the
"terrorist character" of the assault was undeniable, and he described the use of
a large truck to deliberately kill people as "a monstrosity."

"France has been struck on the day of her national holiday," he said. "Human
rights are denied by fanatics, and France is clearly their target."

Mr. Hollande, who only hours earlier had proclaimed the impending end of a state
of national emergency on July 26, said that the measure would be extended by
three months and that additional soldiers would be deployed for security.

Prime Minister Manuel Valls said Friday morning that France would observe three
days of national mourning, starting on Saturday. Flags will fly at half-staff at
all government buildings.

"We would like to tell the French people that we will never give in," he said in
a statement outside the Élysée Palace, in Paris. "We will not give in to the
terrorist threat. The times have changed, and France should learn to live with
terrorism."

As French officials quickly concluded that terrorism was the likely motive and
the scope of the slaughter grew clear, the use of a large commercial truck as
the principal weapon of death raised new questions about how to prevent such
attacks.

The officials warned residents to stay indoors and canceled all further
scheduled festivities in Nice, a seaside city of 340,000, including a five-day
jazz festival and a concert on Friday night by Rihanna.

"There are numerous victims," said Pierre-Henry Brandet, a spokesman for the
Interior Ministry, on BFM Television. "It's a tragic, exceptional situation."

Witnesses described scenes of pandemonium, with conflicting accounts on social
media, including a false report of hostage-taking in Nice.

"We were enjoying the celebrations when we suddenly saw people running
everywhere and tables being pushed down by the movement of panic," said Daphne
Burandé, 15, who was at a bar near the beach to watch the fireworks.

"No one explained to us what was happening, and I heard some gunshots not very
far away," she said. "I waited at the bar for more information because I thought
it was a false alert. But then, people were still running."

There was no immediate claim of responsibility, and the identity of the driver
was not immediately clear, but the newspaper Nice Matin reported early Friday
that he was a 31-year-old Frenchman of Tunisian origin.

Christian Estrosi, the president of the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region of
France, which includes Nice, expressed outrage, sympathy and frustration in an
interview with BFM-TV on Friday morning, pointedly noting previous attacks on
asatiricalnewspaper in Paris in January 2015; the coordinated series of attacks
in and around Paris in November that included a music hall, the Bataclan, among
its targets; and the attacks this year in Brussels.

"Questions are raised," he said. "As I try to comfort the families, I also try
to contain my anger; I can't hide to you that I feel a deep anger. How is it
possible in our country that, after everyone said there was a state of
emergency, a state of war, we forgot it after Charlie Hebdo, and then there was
the Bataclan. After the Bataclan, we forgot, and then there was Brussels. After
Brussels, we forgot and there was Nice."

"There are questions that need to be answered," he said.

Mr. Estrosi said that the families needed time to mourn, and added that it was
"our duty" to support them. But he also asked how it was possible that an
individual was apparently able to breach security, and he said that he expected
an answer from Bernard Cazeneuve, the interior minister.

"I don't want to hear the usual, 'We are going to carry out an investigation,' "
he said.

The attack amounted to a gut-punch to a nation that was struggling to restore
some sense of normalcy and had begun to drop its guard.

Hours after Mr. Hollande said during Bastille Day festivities in Paris that "we
cannot prolong the state of emergency eternally," a massive white truck came
crashing through in Nice.

The main strip through Nice was littered with bodies, one after the other.

"Whatever the nature of what happened in Nice, the threat of terrorism is
particularly high," Mr. Brandet, the Interior Ministry spokesman, said on the
iTele television station. He added that security forces were on high alert in
the area and in cities around France.

Dozens of people were seriously injured, and many more were psychologically
shocked, Mr. Brandet said. The region has activated a so-called White Plan, put
in place during the Nov. 13 Paris terrorist attacks that killed 130 people, to
open all emergency rooms to receive victims, he added.

The Islamic State, the militant group that asserted responsibility for the
attacks in Paris, did not make any immediate claims for the assault in Nice.

It typically takes the Islamic State several hours, and sometimes up to one and
even two days, to assert responsibility for attacks in Western countries. It
typically does so through its Amaq channel on the encrypted telephone app
Telegram, which serves as the group's news wire.

However, as in the hours immediately after the Paris, Brussels and Orlando
attacks, there was a now familiar celebration on channels run by groups that
support the Islamic State, as well as on at least one channel affiliated with
the group, also known as ISIS and ISIL. They cheered the carnage.

On a channel created on Thursday, called the United Cyber Caliphate, run by a
group that has previously tried to carry out cyberattacks in the Islamic State's
name, a message included a single word -- France -- followed by a smiley face.

The channel of an Islamic State member, Aswarti Media, which has repeatedly been
shut down and claims 1,987 members, was posting the phrase "Allahu akbar." Yet
another channel suspected of being for the Islamic State showed an image of the
Eiffel Tower going up in flames.

The attack in Nice took place just as the Euro 2016 soccer tournament had
concluded. France had hosted the tournament, and the entire country had been on
high alert. There had been reports that suspects linked to the attacks in Paris
and the Brussels assault in March had planned an attack during the tournament.

With tens of thousands of people gathered at stadiums and in designated "fan
zones" during the games, the police and private security took extraordinary
measures to try to secure the sites.

It was difficult to know if the measures were successful or if in fact there
were no plans to attack the soccer tournament.

One question people will be asking is whether the security forces, as well as
civilians, let their guard down once the tournament was over thinking that the
danger had passed.

Several witnesses spoke on iTele. A man who gave his name as Michel, working at
the Voilier Plage restaurant in front of the Promenade des Anglais, said that
around 10:30 p.m., a large white truck drove into a crowd that had gathered near
the beach. "A huge number of people started running, then there was a lot of
gunfire," he said.

Another witness who owns a restaurant nearby, whom iTele did not identify, said
that when the truck plowed into the crowd, it "crushed everyone in its path."

French television showed footage of a panicked crowd running from the scene. On
Twitter, witnesses posted grim photographs of bodies lying in a pile on the
asphalt.

Alissa J. Rubin and Adam Nossiter reported from Paris, and Christopher Mele from
New York. Reporting was contributed by Andrew Higgins from Nice, France;
Aurelien Breeden, Lilia Blaise and Liz Alderman from Paris; Sewell Chan and
Kimiko de Freytas-Tamura from London; and Rukmini Callimachi and Rick Gladstone
from New York.

PHOTOS: The police killed the truck's driver, who wasn't immediately identified.
The truck was said to contain weapons and grenades. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VALERY
HACHE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A1); Dozens of people were killed
or seriously injured in Nice, and many more were psychologically shocked,
according to France's Interior Ministry.; Witnesses described scenes of
pandemonium, with conflicting accounts on social media. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANTOINE
CHAUVEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10)

Related Articles


     ·    In Nice, a Vibrant Celebration Gives Way to a Trail of Death
     ·    Truck Attack in Nice, France: What We Know, and What We Don't
     ·    Chappatte on the Bastille Day Attack in Nice, France



Related Slideshows


     ·    Heavy Toll in Nice


LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 15, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Truck Attack on French Crowd; Scores Die

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN, ADAM NOSSITER and CHRISTOPHER MELE; Alissa J. Rubin
and Adam Nossiter reported from Paris, and Christopher Mele from New York.
Reporting was contributed by Andrew Higgins from Nice, France; Aurelien Breeden,
Lilia Blaise and Liz Alderman from Paris; Sewell Chan and Kimiko de
Freytas-Tamura from London; and Rukmini Callimachi and Rick Gladstone from New
York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1115 words


PARIS -- A Bastille Day fireworks celebration was shattered by death and mayhem
on Thursday night in the southern French city of Nice when a large truck
barreled for more than a mile through an enormous crowd of spectators, crushing
and maiming dozens in what France's president called a terrorist assault. It
came eight months after the Paris attacks that traumatized the nation and all of
Europe.

Officials and witnesses in Nice said at least 84 people, including children,
were killed by the driver of the rampaging truck, who mowed them down on the
sidewalk. He was shot to death by the police as officers scrambled to respond on
what is France's most important annual holiday.

Graphic television and video images showed the truck accelerating and tearing
through the crowd, dozens of victims sprawled in its path, and the
bullet-riddled windshield of the vehicle. Municipal officials and police
officers described the truck as full of weapons and grenades.

''The horror, the horror has, once again, hit France,'' President François
Hollande said in a nationally televised address early Friday. He said the
''terrorist character'' of the assault was undeniable, and he described the use
of a large truck to deliberately kill people as ''a monstrosity.''

''France has been struck on the day of her national holiday,'' he said. ''Human
rights are denied by fanatics, and France is clearly their target.''

Mr. Hollande, who only hours earlier had proclaimed the impending end of a state
of national emergency on July 26, said that the measure would be extended by
three months and that additional soldiers would be deployed for security.

French officials quickly concluded that terrorism was the likely motive, as the
scope of the slaughter grew clear. The use of a large commercial truck as the
principal weapon of death raised new questions about how to prevent such
attacks.

The officials warned residents to stay indoors and canceled all further
scheduled festivities in Nice, a seaside city of 340,000, including a five-day
jazz festival and a concert on Friday night by Rihanna.

''There are numerous victims,'' said Pierre-Henry Brandet, a spokesman for the
Interior Ministry, on BFM Television. ''It's a tragic, exceptional situation.''

Witnesses described scenes of pandemonium, with conflicting accounts on social
media, including a false report of hostage-taking in Nice.

''We were enjoying the celebrations when we suddenly saw people running
everywhere and tables being pushed down by the movement of panic,'' said Daphne
Burandé, 15, who was at a bar near the beach to watch the fireworks.

''No one explained to us what was happening, and I heard some gunshots not very
far away,'' she said. ''I waited at the bar for more information because I
thought it was a false alert. But then, people were still running.''

There was no immediate claim of responsibility, and the identity of the driver
was not immediately clear, but the Nice Matin newspaper reported early Friday
that he was a 31-year-old Frenchman of Tunisian origin.

The attack amounted to a gut-punch to a nation that was struggling to restore
some sense of normalcy and had begun to drop its guard.

Hours after Mr. Hollande said during Bastille Day festivities in Paris that ''we
cannot prolong the state of emergency eternally,'' a massive white truck came
crashing through.

The main strip through Nice was littered with bodies, one after the other.

''Whatever the nature of what happened in Nice, the threat of terrorism is
particularly high,'' Mr. Brandet, the Interior Ministry spokesman, said on the
iTele television station. He added that security forces were on high alert in
the area and in cities around France.

Dozens of people were seriously injured and many more were psychologically
shocked, Mr. Brandet said. The region has activated a so-called White Plan, put
in place during the Nov. 13 Paris terrorist attacks that killed 130 people, to
open all emergency rooms to receive victims, he added.

The Islamic State, the militant group that asserted responsibility for the
attacks in Paris, did not make any immediate claims for the Nice assault.

It typically takes the Islamic State several hours, and sometimes up to one and
even two days, to assert responsibility for attacks in Western countries. It
typically does so through its Amaq channel on the encrypted telephone app
Telegram, which serves as the group's news wire.

However, as in the hours immediately after the Paris, Brussels and Orlando
attacks, there was a now familiar celebration on channels run by groups that
support the Islamic State, as well as on at least one channel affiliated with
the group, also known as ISIS and ISIL. They cheered the carnage.

On a channel created Thursday, called the United Cyber Caliphate, run by a group
that has previously tried to carry out cyberattacks in the Islamic State's name,
a message included a single word -- France -- followed by a smiley face.

The channel of an Islamic State member, Aswarti Media, which has repeatedly been
shut down and claims 1,987 members, was posting the phrase ''Allahu akbar.'' Yet
another suspected pro-ISIS channel showed an image of the Eiffel Tower going up
in flames.

The Nice attack took place just as the Euro 2016 soccer tournament had
concluded. France had hosted the tournament, and the entire country had been on
high alert. There had been reports that suspects linked to the attacks in Paris
and the Brussels assault in March had planned an attack during the tournament.

With tens of thousands of people gathered at stadiums and in designated ''fan
zones'' during the games, the police and private security took extraordinary
measures to try to secure the sites.

It was difficult to know if the measures were successful or if in fact there
were no plans to attack the soccer tournament.

One question people will be asking is whether the security forces, as well as
civilians, let their guard down once the tournament was over thinking that the
danger had passed.

Several witnesses spoke on iTele. A man who gave his name as Michel, working at
the Voilier Plage restaurant in front of the Promenade des Anglais, said that
around 10:30 p.m., a large white truck drove into a crowd that had gathered near
the beach. ''A huge number of people started running, then there was a lot of
gunfire,'' he said.

Another witness who owns a restaurant nearby, whom iTele did not identify, said
that when the truck plowed into the crowd, it ''crushed everyone in its path.''

French television showed footage of a panicked crowd running from the scene. On
Twitter, witnesses posted grim photographs of bodies lying in a pile on the
asphalt.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/15/world/europe/nice-france-truck-bastille-day.ht
ml

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The police killed the truck's driver, who wasn't immediately
identified. The truck was said to contain weapons and grenades. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
VALERY HACHE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
Dozens of people were killed or seriously injured in Nice, and many more were
psychologically shocked, according to France's Interior Ministry.
 Witnesses described scenes of pandemonium, with conflicting accounts on social
media. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANTOINE CHAUVEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 21, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A New Queens Building That Cannot Be Overlooked: A Library

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 821 words


Standing at a 29th-floor window of a skyscraper on Third Avenue in Midtown
Manhattan, Dennis M. Walcott was deeply impressed last week when he spotted the
newest branch of his library system under construction.

Mr. Walcott, it should be said, is the president and chief executive of the
Queens Library.

What he could see so clearly was the Queens Library at Hunters Point, across the
East River and a mile away, in Long Island City.

''You talk about the pride of the borough of Queens,'' said Mr. Walcott, who was
a deputy mayor and schools chancellor in the Bloomberg administration.

Neighborhood libraries are not typically foreground buildings. It is telling
that the latest addition to the New York Public Library system occupies the
basement of a 50-story condominium tower in Manhattan in which one apartment
sold for more than $23 million.

But the $38 million Hunters Point library, designed by Steven Holl Architects,
already occupies the foreground, even though it is at least a year from opening.

This 81½-foot-high concrete box, pierced by enormous gummi-shaped cutouts, has
staked its place on the waterfront, between the landmark Pepsi-Cola sign and the
long-legged Long Island Rail Road gantries of Gantry Plaza State Park. It will
not suit everyone's taste. But no one will overlook it.

''A public building has to have a presence, has to be a beacon,'' Mr. Holl said
Monday, as he led a hard-hat tour through the great concrete shell, which is not
just a facade but a load-bearing structure. (There is only one interior column.)
The cutouts are angled and situated to take advantage of unobstructed views of
Manhattan.

''These are not gratuitous shapes,'' Mr. Holl said. ''These are expressions of
the inside, looking out.''

The principal diagonal void on the riverfront facade marks the location of what
will be a grand staircase paralleling the tiered adult reading area. The
panorama includes the two new ''dancing'' American Copper Buildings, the stately
United Nations Secretariat, the monolithic Trump World Tower and the
cloud-piercing 432 Park Avenue.

''This will become a tourist attraction itself,'' said Feniosky Peña-Mora, the
commissioner of the city's Department of Design and Construction, as he admired
the scene. His agency is managing construction of the library.

Opposite the adult reading area is the children's area, visibly expressed at the
south end of the structure where an entire chunk of the corner seems to have
been sliced away.

These two reading areas are separated by a central atrium that is more than 60
feet high.

Under the adult reading area will be a community meeting room. Above it will be
the teenagers' area. On the opposite side of the atrium will be a small cyber
center and cafe. There is also a stepped roof terrace. The concrete exterior
will be painted silver.

Conscious of the threat posed to the Hunters Point peninsula by hurricanes and
tidal surges, architects and engineers set the base of the library one foot
above the 100-year floodplain (an area where the probability of flooding is one
percent in any given year).

No one in Mr. Holl's entourage was more appreciatively wide-eyed than Councilman
Jimmy Van Bramer, a Queens Democrat who said he had been fighting for a Hunters
Point branch since 1999, when he worked at the Queens Library.

Through the mayoral administrations of Michael R. Bloomberg, a Republican turned
independent, and Bill de Blasio, a Democrat, the library project started and
stopped, died and revived, Mr. Van Bramer said. It had to survive the stormy
months in 2014 that led up to the firing of Mr. Walcott's predecessor, Thomas W.
Galante, over his spending practices.

The feeling at City Hall, Mr. Van Bramer said, was that Long Island City did not
need much more than a one- or two-story box, in spite of the fact that Hunters
Point was filling with apartment towers, and the towers were filling with young
families.

''I said, 'We're not building for who's here today but who's going to be here in
the future,''' Mr. Van Bramer recalled.

Drawing on the discretionary funds that are made available to members of the
City Council for the support of nonprofit organizations, Mr. Van Bramer said he
directed $15 million to the Hunters Point library over several fiscal years.

''It's the single most important project of my career,'' he said. Mr. Van Bramer
credited two neighborhood advocates in particular for leading the fight: Don
Dodelson, the first president of the Friends of the Hunters Point Library, and
Fausta Ippolito, an elementary schoolteacher and mother of two, who died in
2011.

Ms. Ippolito was very much on Mr. Van Bramer's mind during the visit on Monday,
his first inside the library. While everyone else took in the impressive volumes
and astonishing views, he seemed preoccupied by the question of which of these
spaces, now taking form in raw steel and concrete, would one day bear her name.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/21/nyregion/a-new-queens-building-that-cant-be-ov
erlooked-a-library.html

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The $38 million Queens Library at Hunters Point, an
81½-foot-high concrete box that is under construction in Long Island City,
viewed from a pier on Gantry Plaza State Park.
 The architect Steven Holl, gesturing, with, from left: Commissioner Feniosky
Peña-Mora, Councilman Jimmy Van Bramer and Dennis M. Walcott, head of the
library system. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMON HASSAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 22, 2016 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Transcript: Donald Trump on NATO, Turkey's Coup Attempt and the World

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 4668 words


Donald J. Trump, the Republican presidential nominee, discussed his views on
foreign policy in Cleveland on Wednesday with David E. Sanger and Maggie
Haberman of The New York Times during the Republican National Convention. Here
is an edited transcript of their interview.

SANGER: So what we want to do is pick up where we left off in March. We were
listening to Speaker Ryan last night, and he presented a much more traditional
Republican, engaged internationalist view of the world. One in which he said
that the United States would never lead from behind. In our conversation a few
months ago, you were discussing pulling back from commitments we can no longer
afford unless others pay for them. You were discussing a set of alliances that
you were happy to participate in.

TRUMP: And I think, by the way, David, I think they will be able to afford them.

SANGER: They may be.

TRUMP: We can't.

SANGER: But I guess the question is, If we can't, do you think that your
presidency, let's assume for a moment that they contribute what they are
contributing today, or what they have contributed historically, your presidency
would be one of pulling back and saying, ''You know, we're not going to invest
in these alliances with NATO, we are not going to invest as much as we have in
Asia since the end of the Korean War because we can't afford it and it's really
not in our interest to do so.''

TRUMP: If we cannot be properly reimbursed for the tremendous cost of our
military protecting other countries, and in many cases the countries I'm talking
about are extremely rich. Then if we cannot make a deal, which I believe we will
be able to, and which I would prefer being able to, but if we cannot make a
deal, I would like you to say, I would prefer being able to, some people, the
one thing they took out of your last story, you know, some people, the fools and
the haters, they said, ''Oh, Trump doesn't want to protect you.'' I would prefer
that we be able to continue, but if we are not going to be reasonably reimbursed
for the tremendous cost of protecting these massive nations with tremendous
wealth -- you have the tape going on?

SANGER: We do.

HABERMAN: We both do.

TRUMP: With massive wealth. Massive wealth. We're talking about countries that
are doing very well. Then yes, I would be absolutely prepared to tell those
countries, ''Congratulations, you will be defending yourself.''

SANGER: That suggests that our forward deployments around the world are based on
their interests -- they're not really based on our interests. And yet I think
many in your party would say that the reason that we have troops in Europe, the
reason that we keep 60,000 troops in Asia, is that it's in our interest to keep
open trading lines, it's in our interest to keep the North Koreans in check, you
do that much better out away from the United States.

TRUMP: I think it's a mutual interest, but we're being reimbursed like it's only
in our interest. I think it's a mutual interest. ...

SANGER:  We were talking about alliances, and the fundamental problem that you
hear many Republicans, traditional Republicans, have with the statement that
you've made is that it would seem to them that you would believe that the
interests of the United States being out with both our troops and our diplomacy
abroad is less than our economic interests in having somebody else support that.
In other words, even if they didn't pay a cent toward it, many have believed
that the way we've kept our postwar leadership since World War II has been our
ability to project power around the world. That's why we got this many diplomats
----

TRUMP: How is it helping us? How has it helped us? We have massive trade
deficits. I could see that, if instead of having a trade deficit worldwide of
$800 billion, we had a trade positive of $100 billion, $200 billion, $800
billion. So how has it helped us?

SANGER:  Well, keeping the peace. We didn't have a presence in places like Korea
in 1950, or not as great a presence, and you saw what happened.

TRUMP: There's no guarantee that we'll have peace in Korea.

SANGER:  Even with our troops, no, there's no guarantee.

TRUMP: No, there's no guarantee. We have 28,000 soldiers on the line.

SANGER:  But we've had them there since 1953 and ----

TRUMP: Sure, but that doesn't mean that there wouldn't be something going on
right now. Maybe you would have had a unified Korea. Who knows what would have
happened? In the meantime, what have we done? So we've kept peace, but in the
meantime we've let North Korea get stronger and stronger and more nuclear and
more nuclear, and you are really saying, ''Well, how is that a good thing?'' You
understand? North Korea now is almost like a boiler. You say we've had peace,
but that part of Korea, North Korea, is getting more and more crazy. And more
and more nuclear. And they are testing missiles all the time.

SANGER:  They are.

TRUMP: And we've got our soldiers sitting there watching missiles go up. And you
say to yourself, ''Oh, that's interesting.'' Now we're protecting Japan because
Japan is a natural location for North Korea. So we are protecting them, and you
say to yourself, ''Well, what are we getting out of this?''

SANGER: Well, we keep our missile defenses out there. And those missile defenses
help prevent the day when North Korea can reach the United States with one of
its missiles. It's a lot easier to shoot down from there ----

TRUMP: We've had them there for a long time, and now they're practically
obsolete, in all fairness.

SANGER: Relatively new missile defenses would allow us ----

TRUMP: I'm only saying this. We're spending money, and if you're talking about
trade, we're losing a tremendous amount of money, according to many stats, $800
billion a year on trade. So we are spending a fortune on military in order to
lose $800 billion. That doesn't sound like it's smart to me. Just so you
understand though, totally on the record, this is not 40 years ago. We are not
the same country and the world is not the same world. Our country owes right now
$19 trillion, going to $21 trillion very quickly because of the omnibus budget
that was passed, which is incredible. We don't have the luxury of doing what we
used to do; we don't have the luxury, and it is a luxury. We need other people
to reimburse us much more substantially than they are giving right now because
we are only paying for a fraction of the cost.

SANGER: Or to take on the burden themselves.

TRUMP: Or, if we cannot make the right deal, to take on the burden themselves.
You said it wrong because you said or -- or if we cannot make the right deal for
proper reimbursement to take on the burden themselves. Yes. Now, Hillary Clinton
said: ''I will never leave Japan. I will never leave Japan. Will never leave any
of our ----'' Well now, once you say that, guess what happens? What happens?

HABERMAN: You're stuck.

TRUMP: You can't negotiate.

HABERMAN: Right.

TRUMP: In a deal, you always have to be prepared to walk. Hillary Clinton has
said, ''We will never, ever walk.'' That's a wonderful phrase, but
unfortunately, if I were on Saudi Arabia's side, Germany, Japan, South Korea and
others, I would say, ''Oh, they're never leaving, so what do we have to pay them
for?'' Does that make sense to you, David?

SANGER: It does, but we also know that defending the United States is a harder
thing to do if you're not forward-deployed.

TRUMP: By the way, and I know what I'm talking about is massive. If we ever felt
there was a reason to defend the United States, we can always deploy, and it
would be a lot less expense. ...

HABERMAN: Can we switch to current events, recent events?

TRUMP: You understand what ----

SANGER: I do, I do.

TRUMP: You always have to be prepared to walk. It doesn't mean I want to walk.
And I would prefer not to walk. You have to be prepared and our country cannot
afford to do what we're doing.

HABERMAN: How closely did you watch last week as events were unfolding in Turkey
with the coup? Is there anything you would have done differently in how it was
handled?

TRUMP: The coup never took place -- the coup was not successful, and based on
the fact, and I give great credit to him for being able to turn that around.

SANGER: Erdogan?

TRUMP: Yes, some people say that it was staged. You know that?

SANGER: We've heard.

TRUMP: I don't think so, but I do give great credit to him for turning it
around. You know, the first hour, it seemed like it was over. Then all of a
sudden, and the amazing thing is the one that won that was the people. They came
out on the streets, and the army types didn't want to drive over them like they
did in Tiananmen Square when they sort of drived them over, and that was the end
of that. Right? People said, I'm not going to drive over people. The people came
out of their homes, and they were not in favor of what the military was doing.
So that was quite impressive from the standpoint of existing government. I will
say this: I think Turkey can do a lot against ISIS, and I would hope that if I'm
dealing with them, they will do much more about ISIS.

SANGER: Erdogan put nearly 50,000 people in jail or suspend them, suspended
thousands of teachers, he imprisoned many in the military and the police, he
dismissed a lot of the judiciary. Does this worry you? And would you rather deal
with a strongman who's also been a strong ally, or with somebody that's got a
greater appreciation of civil liberties than Mr. Erdogan has? Would you press
him to make sure the rule of law applies?

TRUMP: I think right now when it comes to civil liberties, our country has a lot
of problems, and I think it's very hard for us to get involved in other
countries when we don't know what we are doing and we can't see straight in our
own country. We have tremendous problems when you have policemen being shot in
the streets, when you have riots, when you have Ferguson. When you have
Baltimore. When you have all of the things that are happening in this country --
we have other problems, and I think we have to focus on those problems. When the
world looks at how bad the United States is, and then we go and talk about civil
liberties, I don't think we're a very good messenger.

SANGER: So that suggests that you would not, as, say, President Bush did, the
last President Bush, make the spread of democracy and liberty sort of a core of
your foreign policy. You would say, ''We need allies, we're not going to lecture
them about what they do inside their borders.''

TRUMP: We need allies.

SANGER: And lecture inside their borders?

TRUMP: I don't know that we have a right to lecture. Just look about what's
happening with our country. How are we going to lecture when people are shooting
our policemen in cold blood. How are we going to lecture when you see the riots
and the horror going on in our own country. We have so many difficulties in our
country right now that I don't think we should be, and there may be a time when
we can get much more aggressive on that subject, and it will be a wonderful
thing to be more aggressive. We're not in a position to be more aggressive. We
have to fix our own mess.

SANGER: You said that they could be much more helpful with ISIS. I'm sure
perhaps they can. The big difference they've had is that we've been supporting
Kurdish forces that have been very effective ----

TRUMP: I'm a fan of the Kurds, you understand.

SANGER: But Erdogan is not. Tell us how you would deal with that?

TRUMP: Well, it would be ideal if we could get them all together. And that would
be a possibility. But I'm a big fan of the Kurdish forces. At the same time, I
think we have a potentially -- we could have a potentially very successful
relationship with Turkey. And it would be really wonderful if we could put them
somehow both together.

SANGER: And what's your diplomatic plan for doing that?

TRUMP: Meetings. If I ever have the opportunity to do it, meaning if I win, we
will have meetings, we will have meetings very early on.

HABERMAN: I was going to say, when would you begin that process?

TRUMP: Very early on. I think it's a natural. I think it's a natural. I mean, we
have two groups that are friendly and they are fighting each other. So if we
could put them together, that would be something that would be possible to do,
in my opinion.

HABERMAN: You had meetings in the last couple months with James Baker and Henry
Kissinger. Did they in any way change your views?

TRUMP: No.

HABERMAN: And what did you come away with from those meetings?

TRUMP: No. I came away with a lot of knowledge. I respect both men. ...

SANGER: Tell us how you'd capitalize on that. On the record, tell us how, in the
case with Mexico.

TRUMP: I think we'll have a very good relationship with Mexico, and it will be a
fair relationship. Right now, it's a massive, Mexico is a massive loss. A
massive loss for us. But I think it will be a very, very fair relationship and a
very good relationship but right now, Mexico, we are losing on the border and we
are losing on trade. We have billions of dollars of trade deficits with Mexico.
Drugs are pouring in across the border. And they are beating us both on the
border and with trade. I think we'll have a better relationship than we do now
and it will be a much more fair relationship.

SANGER: You've talked about building the wall of course. Would you amend or
change Nafta?

TRUMP: Oh, without question.

SANGER: Tell us how.

TRUMP: Without question. Nafta ----

SANGER: Would you pull out of Nafta?

TRUMP: If I don't get a change, I would pull out of Nafta in a split second.
Nafta is signed by Bill Clinton, perhaps the worst trade deal ever signed in the
history of this country. It's the worst trade deal ever signed in the history of
this country and one of the worst trade deals ever signed anywhere in the world.
Nafta is a disaster. You have to understand, I just campaigned, as you probably
read, and I won all these states, and one of the reasons was because of Nafta.
Because Nafta has drained manufacturing out of New York State, out of
Pennsylvania, out of Ohio, out of so many different places. It's drained. And
these companies have gone to Mexico, and they've gone, they've left with the
jobs. David, I have statisticians, and I know, like if I went to Pennsylvania, I
say, ''Give me the statistics on what is going on with respect to
manufacturing.'' Numbers -- 45, 55, 65, I have states that are so bad. New
England. Look at New England, what happened. Nafta has been a disaster for this
country. And a disaster for the worker and Nafta is one of the reasons that, you
know, there are people that haven't had a wage increase 18 years in real wages.
Actually, they're lower, some are working two jobs, working much harder, then
making less and they're older. It's supposed to work the opposite. You're making
more, you're making more I hope.

HABERMAN: What kind of change could you make in terms of Nafta without fully
withdrawing from it? How could you?

TRUMP: You've got to be fair to the country. Everyone is leaving. Carrier just
announced they're leaving. Ford is building a massive plant. So I have a friend
who builds plants and then I have to go. I have a friend who builds plants,
that's what he does, he's the biggest in the world, he builds plants like
automobile plants, computer plants, that's all he does. He doesn't build
apartments, he doesn't build office space, he builds plants. I said to him the
other day, ''How are you doing?'' He goes, ''Unbelievable.'' Oh, great, that's
good, thinking about the United States, right, because he's based in the United
States. So I said, ''Good, so the country is doing well.'' He said, ''No, no,
not our country, you've got to see what I'm doing in Mexico.'' He said: ''The
business there is unbelievable, the new plants we are building. People moving
from the United States.'' That's what he does. One-story plants. You understand?

SANGER: Since your time is limited, let me ask you about Russia. You've been
very complimentary of Putin himself.

TRUMP: No! No, I haven't.

SANGER: You said you respected his strength.

TRUMP: He's been complimentary of me. I think Putin and I will get along very
well.

SANGER: So I was just in ----

TRUMP: But he's been complimentary of me.

SANGER: I was just in the Baltic States. They are very concerned obviously about
this new Russian activism, they are seeing submarines off their coasts, they are
seeing airplanes they haven't seen since the Cold War coming, bombers doing test
runs. If Russia came over the border into Estonia or Latvia, Lithuania, places
that Americans don't think about all that often, would you come to their
immediate military aid?

TRUMP: I don't want to tell you what I'd do because I don't want Putin to know
what I'd do. I have a serious chance of becoming president and I'm not like
Obama, that every time they send some troops into Iraq or anyplace else, he has
a news conference to announce it.

SANGER: They are NATO members, and we are treaty-obligated ----

TRUMP: We have many NATO members that aren't paying their bills.

SANGER: That's true, but we are treaty-obligated under NATO, forget the bills
part.

TRUMP: You can't forget the bills. They have an obligation to make payments.
Many NATO nations are not making payments, are not making what they're supposed
to make. That's a big thing. You can't say forget that.

SANGER: My point here is, Can the members of NATO, including the new members in
the Baltics, count on the United States to come to their military aid if they
were attacked by Russia? And count on us fulfilling our obligations ----

TRUMP: Have they fulfilled their obligations to us? If they fulfill their
obligations to us, the answer is yes.

HABERMAN: And if not?

TRUMP: Well, I'm not saying if not. I'm saying, right now there are many
countries that have not fulfilled their obligations to us.

SANGER: You've seen several of those countries come under cyberattack, things
that are short of war, clearly appear to be coming from Russia.

TRUMP: Well, we're under cyberattack.

SANGER: We're under regular cyberattack. Would you use cyberweapons before you
used military force?

TRUMP: Cyber is absolutely a thing of the future and the present. Look, we're
under cyberattack, forget about them. And we don't even know where it's coming
from.

SANGER: Some days we do, and some days we don't.

TRUMP: Because we're obsolete. Right now, Russia and China in particular and
other places.

SANGER: Would you support the United States' not only developing as we are but
fielding cyberweapons as an alternative?

TRUMP: Yes. I am a fan of the future, and cyber is the future.

SANGER: President Obama, as you probably know, as you probably read, is
considering a no-first-use pledge before he leaves office for nuclear weapons.
We don't have one right now. Some other nations do, some don't. Would you
consider that stabilizing?

TRUMP: Depends on who we are talking about, it depends on who we are talking
about. I would only make that commitment as the agreement is being signed. I
wouldn't want to play my cards. I don't want to say that.

SANGER: This would be a declaratory policy of the United States.

TRUMP: I understand. I will do everything within my power never to be in a
position where we have to use nuclear power because that's a whole different
ballgame. That's very important to me. I will do everything in my power never to
be in a position where we will have to use nuclear power. It's very important to
me.

SANGER: President Obama, as you know, has talked about reducing the number of
nuclear weapons in the American arsenal and hopefully getting to the point,
maybe not in our lifetimes, of no nuclear weapons. Do you believe at this point
that we have sufficient forces that we could come down unilaterally?

TRUMP: I only like that premise if nobody else has them. But that's never going
to happen.

SANGER: Do you think we have too many weapons than we actually need to defend
the United States?

TRUMP: I think we have a lot of obsolete weapons.

SANGER: We certainly do.

TRUMP: We have nuclear that we don't even know if it works. We have nuclear
where the telephone systems are 40 years old and they have wire that's so
corroded that they can't call from one station to the next.

SANGER: That's right.

TRUMP: We have nuclear that their silos are rusted so badly that they don't even
know if the rockets are going to pour out.

SANGER: Well that raises the question whether we need that part of the triad?

TRUMP: Yes. Yes, I think you need all three parts, but -- but we have, much of
what we have is obsolete. Now, Russia, if you look at what they're doing,
they're building submarines, they're going to a level. ...

SANGER: You've been a little bit vague about what we'd do with ISIS other than
bomb the hell out of them.

TRUMP: I don't want to be specific because I don't want ISIS to know what I'm
planning. I do have ideas, very strong ideas on ISIS.

SANGER: Do any of them involve diplomacy, as opposed to -- in other words,
diplomacy in terms of getting Russia and others to help cut them off?

TRUMP: Oh, I would love to have a good relationship where Russia and I, instead
of, and us, and the U.S., instead of fighting each other we got along. It would
be wonderful if we had good relationships with Russia so that we don't have to
go through all of the drama.

SANGER: You would keep Assad there if he's also fighting ISIS?

TRUMP: I don't want to say that, I have a very specific view on Assad, but I
think we have to get rid of ISIS before we get rid of Assad.

SANGER: So you agree with President Obama in that regard?

TRUMP: Look, Assad hates ISIS; ISIS hates Assad. They are fighting each other.
We are supposed to go and fight them both? How do you fight them both when they
are fighting each other? And I think that ISIS is a threat that's much more
important for us right now than Assad. You understand what I'm saying?

SANGER: Mmm.

TRUMP: Because Assad and ISIS are fighting. Now we are going to go in and fight
them both, because we have people that don't know what they are doing. We have
people that don't know what they are doing. So I would get rid of ISIS, but I
don't want to fight at the same time. The other thing you have is, is Assad is
backed by a country that we made a power, O.K.? Iran. And Russia, O.K.? So why
didn't we do something about that before we made Iran rich, and before we gave
them this tremendous power that they now have, that they didn't have and
shouldn't have had?

SANGER: We haven't given them very much right now.

TRUMP: Well, you've given them $150 billion.

SANGER: They've gotten a few billion. At this point, they've gotten a few
billion.

TRUMP: They're getting a lot of money. And they have an agreement that's a
terrible agreement in my opinion. It's an agreement that will get them to
nuclear quicker than had we had no agreement. But that's a different question.
You asked me about Assad. So Assad is a bad man. Done horrible things. We have
to get ISIS first, and you don't want to fight them both at the same time when
they are fighting each other. So I hope you treat me fairly. And I hope you say
that I do know my subject. And I do know it. I know it better than, I know it
better than the people that do it for ----

HABERMAN: We're going to run a transcript -- Let me ask you one quick question
because I can't not ask. Do you have anything more you want to say about either
Meredith McIver or what happened this week?

TRUMP: No, it's fine. I wanted to protect her. She's been a person that's been
very good ----

HABERMAN: Protect Meredith?

TRUMP: Absolutely. But it was getting to a point where it didn't make sense.
Look at your story today. Give me a break. We are talking about ISIS. We are
talking about Iran and Iraq and we are walking about and you put, the biggest
story is about, the No. 1 story in The New York Times today is about this? She
was terrific. She's a terrific woman, she's been with us a long time and she
just made the mistake. You saw her letter?

HABERMAN: I did.

TRUMP: And she came and she said, ''Mr. Trump, I'd like to say what happened.''
I thought it was such a nice thing.

HABERMAN: When did she come to you yesterday?

TRUMP: Two days ago?

HABERMAN: She did?

TRUMP: Yeah.

HABERMAN: Right away? O.K.

TRUMP: Who knew this was going to be a big story? What I'm saying is, she came
in after the speech. But she was, I thought that was very nice.

HABERMAN: And she offered and you said no?

TRUMP: Well, originally, but I didn't know it was going to be a big story. She
was more interested in, because Melania did a phenomenal job ----

HABERMAN: Her speech was very well received.

TRUMP: Very well received. And she was more interested in getting that straight,
because she thought it was very unfair to Melania, who did a phenomenal job. And
I'm glad, it was very nice that she did it. She offered her resignation. I said,
''I really appreciate what you did.'' I think it's terrific that she came
forward instead of me going to her and I said, ''I won't accept it,'' and she
was thrilled with that. She was happy with it.

HABERMAN: Is there anything you would do differently going forward with how
speeches are handled?

TRUMP: Look, Obama copied a speech from Massachusetts. Joe Biden is famous for
copying speeches. Obama had another one with Bush, I read it I think in your
paper. I've been reading about this stuff all my life. It happens, it can
happen. In this case, it happened. You know the story. By the way, the letter
cleared up everything, cleared up everything. The only thing is, if I had done
it a day earlier it would have been better.

HABERMAN: It would have ended it ----

TRUMP: A day earlier, in retrospect. But I didn't clear it up and people are
giving, I think, everybody a lot of credit right now.

HABERMAN: What do you think people will take away from this convention? What are
you hoping?

TRUMP: From the convention? The fact that I'm very well liked. Look, I got more
votes than anybody in the history of the Republican Party. Almost 14 million
votes. I got 37 states. Kasich has one. As an example, Ted had, you know, not
many. Thirty-seven states. Now, with the roll call, I had 44 states. It was 44
to seven and the seven was everybody else: 44 to seven. It was 44 to six because
we are including the different islands. And when you are in that hall and you
see those people, like yesterday, my daughter called up, she said, ''Dad, I've
never seen it -- it's total love.''

HABERMAN: Which daughter?

TRUMP: I don't get love from the media. Instead of reporting like it is. But I
think that people are starting to see what's going on, because I really believe
there's a movement going on and it's a movement based on common sense, it's a
movement based on law and order, it's a movement based on compassion, based on a
lot of different things. Based on trade.

SANGER: This is an America First day you are having out there.

TRUMP: Yeah.

SANGER: We talked about that a little bit at the last conversation. Does America
First take on a different meaning for you now? Think about its historical roots.

TRUMP: To me, America First is a brand-new modern term. I never related it to
the past.

SANGER: So it's not what Lindbergh had in mind?

TRUMP: It's just, no. In fact when I said America First, people said, ''Oh, wait
a minute, isn't that a historical term?'' And when they told me, I said: ''Look,
it's America First. This is not ----''

SANGER: You were familiar with the history of the phrase.

TRUMP: I was familiar, but it wasn't used for that reason. It was used as a
brand-new, very modern term.

HABERMAN: What does it mean to you?

TRUMP: Meaning we are going to take care of this country first before we worry
about everybody else in the world.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/22/us/politics/donald-trump-foreign-policy-interv
iew.html

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 24, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Man vs. Machine

BYLINE: By ZEYNEP TUFEKCI.

Zeynep Tufekci is an associate professor at the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill and a contributing opinion writer for The Times.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; THE SHORTLIST; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 964 words


ONLY HUMANS NEED APPLYWinners and Losers in the Age of Smart MachinesBy Thomas
H. Davenport and Julia Kirby276 pp. Harper Business, $29.99.

Davenport and Kirby make a strong case that as machine intelligence makes
progress, humans will need to distinguish their skills: ''stepping up,'' or
being smarter than machines at seeing the big picture; ''stepping aside,''
choosing jobs machines cannot do; ''stepping in,'' being the person who can be a
bridge between machines and humans.

These may be good options, but it is difficult to see how they would apply to a
majority of the world's workers or in a political and economic system in which
corporations have incentives to disempower employees. When discussing, for
example, why despite advances in technology, the workweek hasn't gotten shorter,
the authors point to economists who argue that we work more in order to consume
more and psychologists who say we find work satisfying. Haunting this discussion
is the fact that people have little choice as longer hours are imposed on them.

The authors do appeal to businesses to augment human labor with technology, but
such a strategy is likely to be applicable only to a very highly skilled work
force. Technology disempowers workers not because of its bits and bytes but
because of how our economy is set up. Without changing that reality, any path to
rescue is likely to have little staying power, since the next round of
ever-­advancing technology will come and sink that lifeboat, too.

RISE OF THE MACHINESA Cybernetic HistoryBy Thomas Rid414 pp. Norton, $27.95.

Rid's new book offers a detailed retelling of the early days of humanity's
encounter with intelligent machines, emphasizing the social context and response
to new technology from World War II to the present world of hacking, cyber
-insecurity and looming dangers of autonomous warfare.

The initial narrative is centered mostly on the ideas of the mathematician
Norbert Wiener, who popularized the notion of a new age of computer-controlled
systems but also came to worry that automation might be the ''economic
equivalent of slave labor.'' He warned of mass unemployment and loss of human
dignity, disagreeing with those who, like the mathematician Alice Mary Hilton,
believed machines would herald a golden age ''free of human drudgery.''

It is easy to scoff at the naïveté of technical visionaries of earlier eras, as
Rid sometimes does. Their anxieties and grand hopes might seem extreme, but it
may well be that we have grown complacent and shortsighted. As we enter an age
of machine intelligence, we might take Wiener as an early, flawed prophet whose
warnings we should heed (admittedly with the benefit of grounded and realistic
analyses). Rid's book offers a useful history as well as a chance to re-examine
our current technological crossroads.

CTRL + ZThe Right to Be ForgottenBy Meg Leta Jones267 pp. New York University,
$29.95.

This survey of the legal and policy landscape around the ''right to be
forgotten'' in the digital age reads as a painful reminder of why laws that were
developed before the invention of photography and sound recording fall short
when we consider dignity and privacy today.

In his 2009 book ''Delete,'' Viktor Mayer-Schönberger warned that digital
networks could ''forever tether us to all our past actions, making it
impossible, in practice, to escape them.'' Jones reminds us that this tether is
not automatic but a ''structure of discoverability'' that can be altered. For
example, in 2014, Europe's highest court ruled that individuals could ask Google
to have negative information removed or ''delisted'' from search results. What
we need, Jones argues, is not complete erasure but ''digital redemption,'' as in
the way American bankruptcy laws allow people in debt to start over. Applied to
our digital lives, such measures would keep us from being eternally haunted by
an embarrassing photograph or ill-advised tweet.

The book leaves us wanting more in the way of suggested regulations, but by
laying out the terrain so thoughtfully, and highlighting the concepts that
should guide our actions, Jones has created the groundwork for a much needed
conversation on the profound problem of permanent digital ballasts in the 21st
century.

ALGORITHMS TO LIVE BYThe Computer Science of Human DecisionsBy Brian Christian
and Tom Griffiths351 pp. Holt, $28.

To computer scientists, ''algorithm'' means a well-­ordered set of steps to
achieve a particular goal. An everyday example might be the algorithm to tie
your shoelaces: Hold one lace tightly, make a loop with the other. Do you have a
computer file that is a long, unordered list that must be sorted? A need to
handle a lot of records that don't fit into the memory, or run a lot of programs
simultaneously? There's an algorithm (or two or three or more) for that. In this
nuanced introduction, Christian and Griffiths do a fine job of explaining basic
sorting and optimization algorithms used in computer science -- along with their
weaknesses.

The book delves deeper when it claims to show how these tools can solve everyday
problems, from the trivial to the profound. I found the examples fascinating,
but the computer science algorithms felt more easily applicable to simpler
problems (how to seat everyone at a wedding to maximize pleasant company) rather
than the more complex questions (how to decide whom to marry).

As software only becomes ever more sophisticated and powerful -- deciding who
might get hired or fired, given a loan or denied, convicted or paroled --
perhaps the most important function of this entertaining and educational book is
in revealing the limiting assumptions, narrow boundaries and tight restrictions
of algorithms, and how different they can be from the messy world of humans.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/24/books/review/only-humans-need-apply-and-more.h
tml

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHN GALL)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        July 26, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Spy Agency Consensus Grows That Russia Hacked D.N.C.

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER and ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1705 words



HIGHLIGHT: American intelligence agencies cautioned that they are uncertain
whether the breach was an effort to manipulate the 2016 presidential election.


WASHINGTON -- American intelligence agencies have told the White House they now
have "high confidence" that the Russian government was behind the theft of
emails and documents from the Democratic National Committee, according to
federal officials who have been briefed on the evidence.

But intelligence officials have cautioned that they are uncertain whether the
electronic break-in at the committee's computer systems was intended as fairly
routine cyberespionage -- of the kind the United States also conducts around the
world -- or as part of an effort to manipulate the 2016 presidential election.

The emails were released by WikiLeaks, whose founder, Julian Assange, has made
it clear that he hoped to harm Hillary Clinton's chances of winning the
presidency. It is unclear how the documents made their way to the group. But a
large sampling was published before the WikiLeaks release by several news
organizations and someone who called himself "Guccifer 2.0," who investigators
now believe was an agent of the G.R.U., Russia's military intelligence service.

The assessment by the intelligence community of Russian involvement in the
D.N.C. hacking, which largely echoes the findings of private cybersecurity firms
that have examined the electronic fingerprints left by the intruders, leaves
President Obama and his national security aides with a difficult diplomatic and
political decision: whether to publicly accuse the government of President
Vladimir V. Putin of engineering the hacking.

Such a public accusation could result in a further deterioration of the already
icy relationship between Washington and Moscow, at a moment when the
administration is trying to reach an accord with Mr. Putin on a cease-fire in
Syria and on other issues. It could also doom any effort to reach some kind of
agreement about acceptable behavior in cyberspace, of the kind the United States
has been discussing with China.

In an interview with Savannah Guthrie of NBC News on Tuesday, President Obama
stopped short of accusing the Russian agencies from seeking to manipulate the
election but said, "Anything's possible."

He noted that "on a regular basis, they try to influence elections in Europe."

Stealing information about another country's political infighting is hardly new,
and the United States has conducted covert collection from allies like Germany
and adversaries like Russia for decades. Publishing the documents -- what some
have called "weaponizing" them -- is a different issue. Mrs. Clinton's campaign
has suggested that Mr. Putin was trying to even the score after the former
secretary of state denounced a 2011 Russian election as filled with fraud.

"The first thing that the secretary of state did was say that they were not
honest and not fair, but she had not even yet received the material from the
observers," Mr. Putin said at the time. "She set the tone for some actors in our
country and gave them a signal," Mr. Putin continued. "They heard the signal
and, with the support of the U.S. State Department, began active work."

Campaign officials have also suggested that Mr. Putin could be trying to tilt
the election to Donald J. Trump. But they acknowledge that they have no
evidence.

Asked on Tuesday at the Democratic convention in Philadelphia whether "there's
more to the Trump/Russian relationship that hasn't come out," John Podesta, the
Clinton campaign chairman, said, "Well, he certainly has a bromance with Mr.
Putin, so I don't know."

Mr. Podesta said that while Russia had a "history" of interfering in democratic
elections in Europe, it would be "unprecedented in the United States."

The Republican platform, adopted last week in Cleveland, calls on the United
States to "respond in kind and in greater magnitude" to cyberattacks. "Russia
and China see cyber operations as part of a warfare strategy during peacetime,"
it says. "Our response should be to cause diplomatic, financial and legal pain."

But the Trump campaign has dismissed the accusations about Russia as a
deliberate distraction, meant to draw attention away from the content of nearly
20,000 emails and documents from the Democratic committee that WikiLeaks started
releasing on Friday. They showed efforts to impugn Senator Bernie Sanders of
Vermont in his effort to challenge Mrs. Clinton for the nomination.

On Twitter Tuesday night, Mr. Trump said that in order to deflect "the horror
and stupidity of the Wikileakes disaster," Democrats were saying: "Russia is
dealing with Trump. Crazy!"

"For the record," he said, "I have ZERO investments in Russia."

Mr. Obama, in his interview with NBC News, criticized Mr. Trump for suggesting
last weekthat the United States should not defend from Russian aggression any
country that does not contribute sufficient funds to NATO. He said Mr. Trump was
"undermining" the country's post-World War II alliances in Europe.

Secretary of State John Kerry raised the cyberattack with his Russian
counterpart, Sergey V. Lavrov, on Tuesday at a meeting of foreign ministers in
Vientiane, Laos. Mr. Lavrov dismissed the idea that Russia was involved, telling
reporters who asked about the charges: "I don't want to use four-letter words."

Mr. Kerry made no accusations, saying he had to allow the F.B.I. to "do its
work" before he drew "any conclusions in terms of what happened or who's behind
it."

The federal investigation, involving the F.B.I. and the intelligence agencies,
has been going on since the Democratic National Committee first called in a
private cybersecurity firm, Crowdstrike, in April.

Preliminary conclusions were discussed on Thursday at a weekly cyberintelligence
meeting for senior officials. The Crowdstrike report, supported by several other
firms that have examined the same bits of code and telltale "metadata" left on
documents that were released before WikiLeaks' publication of the larger trove,
concludes that the Federal Security Service, known as the F.S.B., entered the
committee's networks last summer.

The G.R.U., a competing, military intelligence unit, was a later arrival.
Investigators believe it is the G.R.U. that has played a bigger role in
releasing the emails.

In an essay published on Lawfare, a blog that often deals with cyberissues,
Susan Hennessey, previously a lawyer for the National Security Agency, called
the published evidence about Russian involvement "about as close to a smoking
gun as can be expected when a sophisticated nation-state is involved."

Mr. Assange's threat to release documents, she wrote, "means, put simply, that
actors outside the U.S. are using criminal means to influence the outcome of a
US election. That's a problem."

But American intelligence agencies have their doubts that the Russian intention,
at least initially, was to sway the American election. The intrusion began just
shortly after Mr. Trump announced his candidacy for the Republican nomination.
At the time, his chances looked minuscule. One senior official noted that while
the cyberattack might have been intended to embarrass Mrs. Clinton, who was the
presumptive nominee, it could not have been aimed at bolstering Mr. Trump.

It is far from clear that Mr. Obama or the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey,
would ever name Russia as the origin of the hack. Mr. Obama has only once
accused a country of attacking an American organization, when he said North
Korea was the source of the 2014 attack against Sony Pictures Entertainment. But
the United States has no relationship with North Korea, and there was little to
lose from identifying it.

In the case of Russia and China -- countries with which the United States has
complex relationships -- Mr. Obama has in the past made the opposite decision.
He never named the Russian intelligence agencies as the perpetrators of hacks on
the State Department and White House unclassified email systems, or on the Joint
Chiefs of Staff.

While the administration has called out the People's Liberation Army of China
for stealing intellectual property -- even indicting officers of its
now-inactive Unit 61398 -- it never publicly accused the Chinese intelligence
services of stealing the security-clearance files on more than 21 million
Americans who held or applied for clearances.

By happenstance, the intelligence report on the Democratic National Committee
hacking was circulating here the day that Mr. Obama issued a new policy, long in
development, to organize the government's response to major cyberattacks and to
set up a six-point "grading system" to assess the severity of strikes against
American companies, government agencies and organizations.

The action against the Democratic committee, they said, would qualify as a
"significant cyber incident," which was defined as one that causes "demonstrable
harm to the national security interests, foreign relations or economy of the
United States, or to the public confidence, civil liberties or public health and
safety of the American people."

Ranking the hacking in the pantheon of other penetrated networks is difficult.
The top ranking under Mr. Obama's system would be reserved for an attack that
disabled American power grids, for example, akin to the suspected Russian attack
on Ukraine's electrical system in December. The attack on the Office of
Personnel Management and Sony, which destroyed 70 percent of the studio's
computers, would also rank above the "category 3" level, which defines a
"significant" attack.

But the ranking system does not mandate what kind of response the president
would authorize. And it was designed before many in Washington imagined the use
of cyberattacks to release information in the midst of a dizzying, and volatile,
presidential campaign.

David E. Sanger reported from Washington, and Eric Schmitt from Colorado
Springs. Amy Chozick contributed reporting from Philadelphia.

PHOTO: Secretary of State John Kerry and the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V.
Lavrov, on Tuesday in Vientiane, Laos. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JORGE SILVA/REUTERS) (A17)


Related Articles


     ·    Democrats Allege D.N.C. Hack Is Part of Russian Effort to Elect Donald
          Trump
     ·    D.N.C. Says Russian Hackers Penetrated Its Files, Including Dossier on
          Donald Trump
     ·    Republican Platform Defends 'Traditional' Marriage, a Border Wall and
          Coal
     ·    Released Emails Suggest the D.N.C. Derided the Sanders Campaign


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       July 27, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump Calls on Russia to Find Hillary Clinton's Missing Emails

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1662 words



HIGHLIGHT: "Russia, if you're listening, I hope you're able to find the 30,000
emails that are missing," Mr. Trump said, essentially encouraging a foreign
power's cyberspying.


DORAL, Fla. - Donald J. Trump said on Wednesday that he hoped Russian
intelligence services had successfully hacked Hillary Clinton's email, and
encouraged them to publish whatever they may have stolen, essentially urging a
foreign adversary to conduct cyberespionage against a former secretary of state.

"Russia, if you're listening, I hope you're able to find the 30,000 emails that
are missing," Mr. Trump said during a news conference here in an apparent
reference to Mrs. Clinton's deleted emails. "I think you will probably be
rewarded mightily by our press."

Mr. Trump's call was another bizarre moment in the mystery of whether Vladimir
V. Putin's government has been seeking to influence the United States'
presidential race.

His comments came amid questions about the hacking of the Democratic National
Committee's computer servers, which American intelligence agencies have told the
White House they have "high confidence" was the work of the Russian government.

At the same news conference, Mr. Trump also appeared to leave the door open to
accepting Russia's annexation of Crimea two years ago - which the United States
and its European allies consider an illegal seizure of territory. That seizure,
and the continued efforts of Russian-aided insurgents to undermine the
government of Ukraine, are the reason that the United States and its allies
still have economic sanctions in force against Moscow.

When asked whether he would recognize Crimea "as Russian territory" and lift the
sanctions, Mr. Trump said: "We'll be looking at that. Yeah, we'll be looking."

Mr. Trump's apparent willingness to avoid condemning Mr. Putin's government is a
remarkable departure from United States policy and Republican Party orthodoxy,
and has fueled the questions about Russian meddling in the campaign. Mr. Trump
has denied that, saying at the news conference that he has never met Mr. Putin,
and has no investments in Russia.

"I would treat Vladimir Putin firmly, but there's nothing I can think of that
I'd rather do than have Russia friendly as opposed to the way they are right
now," he said, "so that we can go and knock out ISIS together."

Mr. Trump later tried to modify his remarks about hacking Mrs. Clinton's emails,
contending they represented an effort to get the Russians to turn over their
trove to the F.B.I.

With the political conventions coming to an end on Thursday, Mr. Trump is
expected to receive his first national security briefings from American
intelligence agencies in coming days. It is unclear whether those briefings -
which describe the global challenges facing the United States but not continuing
covert operations or especially sensitive intelligence - will change any of his
views.

His comments about Russian hacking came on a day when Obama administration
officials were already beginning to develop options for possible retaliation
against Russia for the attack on the Democratic National Committee. As is often
the case after cyber incidents, the options for responding are limited and can
be viewed as seeming too mild or too escalatory.

The administration has not publicly accused the Russian government of the
Democratic National Committee hacking, or presented evidence to back up such a
case. The leaked documents, first published by a hacker who called himself
"Guccifer 2.0" and who is now believed to be a character created by Russian
intelligence, portrayed some committee officials as favoring Mrs. Clinton's
candidacy while denigrating her opponent, Senator Bernie Sanders. The release of
the internal party emails and documents led to the resignation of Debbie
Wasserman Schultz as chairwoman of the party.

Mr. Trump contended on Wednesday that the political uproar over whether Russia
was meddling in the election was a "total deflection" from the embarrassing
content of the emails. Many Republicans, even some who say they do not support
Mr. Trump, say they agree.

If Mr. Trump is serious in his call for Russian hacking or exposing Mrs.
Clinton's emails, he would be urging a power often hostile to the United States
to violate American law by breaking into a private computer network. He would
also be contradicting the Republican platform, adopted last week in Cleveland,
saying that cyberespionage "will not be tolerated," and promising to "respond in
kind and in greater magnitude" to all Chinese and Russian cyberattacks.

In the past, the Obama administration has stopped short of retaliating against
Russia - at least in any public fashion - for its attacks on the State
Department and White House unclassified email systems, or on networks used by
the Joint Chiefs of Staff. It never even publicly identified Russian
intelligence as the source of those intrusions, though the subject was widely
discussed by senior United States officials when they were not speaking for
attribution.

In contrast, the United States did bring indictments against Chinese and Iranian
hackers for thefts of intellectual property and attacks on American banks, and
imposed economic sanctions against North Korea in early 2015, for hacking into
Sony Pictures Entertainment's computers.

Almost as soon as Mr. Trump spoke, other Republicans raced in to try to reframe
his remarks and argue that Russia should be punished. A spokesman for Speaker
Paul D. Ryan termed Russia "a global menace led by a devious thug." The
spokesman, Brendan Buck, added: "Putin should stay out of this election."

Even Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, Mr. Trump's running mate, issued a statement,
saying that "if it is Russia and they are interfering in our elections, I can
assure you both parties and the United States government will ensure there are
serious consequences." Mr. Pence did not attend Wednesday's news conference
because he was giving local television interviews, and an aide to Mr. Pence said
that his team had written his statement about Russia before Mr. Trump began
speaking.

Shortly after that Mr. Trump sent a message on Twitterdeclaring "If Russia or
any other country or person has Hillary Clinton's 33,000 illegally deleted
emails, perhaps they should share them with the FBI!"

The fact that the Democratic committee's servers were targeted - and,
apparently, not those of the Republican National Committee - has brought up
inevitable comparisons with the origins of the Watergate scandal, when burglars
found little after breaking into Democratic committee offices before the 1972
election. The hackers, more than 40 years later, were more successful: A
reconstruction of events suggests the first successful piercing of the
Democrats' networks occurred in June 2015, long before the Russians, or anyone
else, could have known Mr. Trump would get the nomination.

The Clinton campaign, eager to turn the subject from the chaos caused by the
email release to the question of Russian interference, accused Mr. Trump of
encouraging Russian espionage.

"This has to be the first time that a major presidential candidate has actively
encouraged a foreign power to conduct espionage against his political opponent,"
said Jake Sullivan, Mrs. Clinton's chief foreign policy adviser, whose emails
from when he was a State Department aide were among those that were hacked.

"This has gone from being a matter of curiosity, and a matter of politics, to
being a national security issue," he added.

For his part, Mr. Trump cast doubt on the conclusion that Russia was behind the
hacking. "I have no idea," he said. He said the "sad thing" is that "with the
genius we have in government, we don't even know who took the Democratic
National Committee emails."

Mr. Trump then argued that if Russia, or any other foreign government, was
behind the hacking, it showed just how little respect other nations had for the
current administration.

"President Trump would be so much better for U.S.-Russian relations" than a
President Clinton, Mr. Trump said. "I don't think Putin has any respect
whatsoever for Clinton."

Former Representative Pete Hoekstra of Michigan, a Republican who had served as
chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said Mr. Trump was right to keep
hammering Mrs. Clinton on the subject of her private emails.

Mr. Hoekstra said he was untroubled by Mr. Trump's goading of a foreign power,
particularly in light of Mrs. Clinton's use of a private server while she was
secretary of state.

"Trump is bringing up a fairly valid point: Hillary Clinton, with her personal
email at the State Department, has put the Russians in a very enviable
position," Mr. Hoekstra said. "Most likely the Russians already have all that
info on Hillary."

But Representative Jason Chaffetz, a Utah Republican who led the House oversight
committee that looked into Mrs. Clinton's emails, was more critical. If Mr.
Trump's comments were meant literally, he said in an interview, "I think he was
absolutely wrong and out of line. I would never have said it that way, and I
think it was ill-advised."

If the remark was tongue-in-cheek, he added, it failed at political humor.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.

Ashley Parker reported from Doral, and David E. Sanger from Washington.
Reporting was contributed by Alexander Burns, Amy Chozick and John Harwood from
Philadelphia, and Eric Lichtblau from Washington.

PHOTOS: Donald J. Trump on Wednesday in Doral, Fla. "President Trump would be so
much better for U.S.-Russian relations" than a President Clinton, he said.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES); President Vladimir V. Putin of
Russia this month. United States intelligence agencies are confident that Russia
hacked into the Democratic National Committee's computer servers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ALEKSEY NIKOLSKYI/SPUTNIK, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - GETTY IMAGES) (A16)

Related Articles


     ·    Spy Agency Consensus Grows That Russia Hacked D.N.C.
     ·    Assange, Avowed Foe of Clinton, Timed Email Release for Democratic
          Convention
     ·    USA Freedom Kids Are in Dispute With Trump


LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 27, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump's Racism and Voters

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 189 words


To the Editor:

''Is Donald Trump a Racist?,'' by Nicholas Kristof (column, July 24), is a
devastating account of the Republican nominee's record of racial discrimination
in housing, his retweets of white supremacists and, perhaps most damaging, of
stirring racial animus that destroyed the lives of five young men, falsely
accused of attacking a white woman jogging in Central Park.

While I applaud Mr. Kristof's willingness to call attention to this
disqualifying legacy, the framing of the column around Mr. Trump's individual
racism (Is he? Or isn't he?) encloses the problem to a personal, idiosyncratic
one that invites speculation about the candidate's heart and mind.

Such a question makes it seem as if his well-documented racism is somehow
peculiar or unique. In so doing, it absolves the rest of us (white people) from
responsibility for the popularity of Mr. Trump's unabashed racism. The more
difficult question we must ask is, Why is Mr. Trump's racism so popular with so
many?

JESSIE DANIELS

New York

The writer, a professor of sociology at Hunter College, CUNY, is the author of
''Cyber Racism'' and ''White Lies.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/27/opinion/the-popularity-of-donald-trumps-racism
.html

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 27, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spy Agency Consensus Grows That Russia Hacked D.N.C.

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and ERIC SCHMITT; David E. Sanger reported from
Washington, and Eric Schmitt from Colorado Springs. Amy Chozick contributed
reporting from Philadelphia.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1626 words


WASHINGTON -- American intelligence agencies have told the White House they now
have ''high confidence'' that the Russian government was behind the theft of
emails and documents from the Democratic National Committee, according to
federal officials who have been briefed on the evidence.

But intelligence officials have cautioned that they are uncertain whether the
electronic break-in at the committee's computer systems was intended as fairly
routine cyberespionage -- of the kind the United States also conducts around the
world -- or as part of an effort to manipulate the 2016 presidential election.

The emails were released by WikiLeaks, whose founder, Julian Assange, has made
it clear that he hoped to harm Hillary Clinton's chances of winning the
presidency. It is unclear how the documents made their way to the group. But a
large sampling was published before the WikiLeaks release by several news
organizations and someone who called himself ''Guccifer 2.0,'' who investigators
now believe was an agent of the G.R.U., Russia's military intelligence service.

The assessment by the intelligence community of Russian involvement in the
D.N.C. hacking, which largely echoes the findings of private cybersecurity firms
that have examined the electronic fingerprints left by the intruders, leaves
President Obama and his national security aides with a difficult diplomatic and
political decision: whether to publicly accuse the government of President
Vladimir V. Putin of engineering the hacking.

Such a public accusation could result in a further deterioration of the already
icy relationship between Washington and Moscow, at a moment when the
administration is trying to reach an accord with Mr. Putin on a cease-fire in
Syria and on other issues. It could also doom any effort to reach some kind of
agreement about acceptable behavior in cyberspace, of the kind the United States
has been discussing with China.

In an interview with Savannah Guthrie of NBC News on Tuesday, President Obama
stopped short of accusing the Russian agencies from seeking to manipulate the
election but said, ''Anything's possible.''

He noted that ''on a regular basis, they try to influence elections in Europe.''

Stealing information about another country's political infighting is hardly new,
and the United States has conducted covert collection from allies like Germany
and adversaries like Russia for decades. Publishing the documents -- what some
have called ''weaponizing'' them -- is a different issue. Mrs. Clinton's
campaign has suggested that Mr. Putin was trying to even the score after the
former secretary of state denounced a 2011 Russian election as filled with
fraud.

''The first thing that the secretary of state did was say that they were not
honest and not fair, but she had not even yet received the material from the
observers,'' Mr. Putin said at the time. ''She set the tone for some actors in
our country and gave them a signal,'' Mr. Putin continued. ''They heard the
signal and, with the support of the U.S. State Department, began active work.''

Campaign officials have also suggested that Mr. Putin could be trying to tilt
the election to Donald J. Trump. But they acknowledge that they have no
evidence.

Asked on Tuesday at the Democratic convention in Philadelphia whether ''there's
more to the Trump/Russian relationship that hasn't come out,'' John Podesta, the
Clinton campaign chairman, said, ''Well, he certainly has a bromance with Mr.
Putin, so I don't know.''

Mr. Podesta said that while Russia had a ''history'' of interfering in
democratic elections in Europe, it would be ''unprecedented in the United
States.''

The Republican platform, adopted last week in Cleveland, calls on the United
States to ''respond in kind and in greater magnitude'' to cyberattacks. ''Russia
and China see cyber operations as part of a warfare strategy during peacetime,''
it says. ''Our response should be to cause diplomatic, financial and legal
pain.''

But the Trump campaign has dismissed the accusations about Russia as a
deliberate distraction, meant to draw attention away from the content of nearly
20,000 emails and documents from the Democratic committee that WikiLeaks started
releasing on Friday. They showed efforts to impugn Senator Bernie Sanders of
Vermont in his effort to challenge Mrs. Clinton for the nomination.

On Twitter Tuesday night, Mr. Trump said that in order to deflect ''the horror
and stupidity of the Wikileakes disaster,'' Democrats were saying: ''Russia is
dealing with Trump. Crazy!''

''For the record,'' he said, ''I have ZERO investments in Russia.''

Mr. Obama, in his interview with NBC News, criticized Mr. Trump for suggesting
last week that the United States should not defend from Russian aggression any
country that does not contribute sufficient funds to NATO. He said Mr. Trump was
''undermining'' the country's post-World War II alliances in Europe.

Secretary of State John Kerry raised the cyberattack with his Russian
counterpart, Sergey V. Lavrov, on Tuesday at a meeting of foreign ministers in
Vientiane, Laos. Mr. Lavrov dismissed the idea that Russia was involved, telling
reporters who asked about the charges: ''I don't want to use four-letter
words.''

Mr. Kerry made no accusations, saying he had to allow the F.B.I. to ''do its
work'' before he drew ''any conclusions in terms of what happened or who's
behind it.''

The federal investigation, involving the F.B.I. and the intelligence agencies,
has been going on since the Democratic National Committee first called in a
private cybersecurity firm, Crowdstrike, in April.

Preliminary conclusions were discussed on Thursday at a weekly cyberintelligence
meeting for senior officials. The Crowdstrike report, supported by several other
firms that have examined the same bits of code and telltale ''metadata'' left on
documents that were released before WikiLeaks' publication of the larger trove,
concludes that the Federal Security Service, known as the F.S.B., entered the
committee's networks last summer.

The G.R.U., a competing, military intelligence unit, was a later arrival.
Investigators believe it is the G.R.U. that has played a bigger role in
releasing the emails.

In an essay published on Lawfare, a blog that often deals with cyberissues,
Susan Hennessey, previously a lawyer for the National Security Agency, called
the published evidence about Russian involvement ''about as close to a smoking
gun as can be expected when a sophisticated nation-state is involved.''

Mr. Assange's threat to release documents, she wrote, ''means, put simply, that
actors outside the U.S. are using criminal means to influence the outcome of a
US election. That's a problem.''

But American intelligence agencies have their doubts that the Russian intention,
at least initially, was to sway the American election. The intrusion began just
shortly after Mr. Trump announced his candidacy for the Republican nomination.
At the time, his chances looked minuscule. One senior official noted that while
the cyberattack might have been intended to embarrass Mrs. Clinton, who was the
presumptive nominee, it could not have been aimed at bolstering Mr. Trump.

It is far from clear that Mr. Obama or the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey,
would ever name Russia as the origin of the hack. Mr. Obama has only once
accused a country of attacking an American organization, when he said North
Korea was the source of the 2014 attack against Sony Pictures Entertainment. But
the United States has no relationship with North Korea, and there was little to
lose from identifying it.

In the case of Russia and China -- countries with which the United States has
complex relationships -- Mr. Obama has in the past made the opposite decision.
He never named the Russian intelligence agencies as the perpetrators of hacks on
the State Department and White House unclassified email systems, or on the Joint
Chiefs of Staff.

While the administration has called out the People's Liberation Army of China
for stealing intellectual property, -- even indicting officers of its
now-inactive Unit 61398 -- it never publicly accused the Chinese intelligence
services of stealing the security-clearance files on more than 21 million
Americans who held or applied for clearances.

By happenstance, the intelligence report on the Democratic National Committee
hacking was circulating here the day that Mr. Obama issued a new policy, long in
development, to organize the government's response to major cyberattacks and to
set up a six-point ''grading system'' to assess the severity of strikes against
American companies, government agencies and organizations.

The action against the Democratic committee, they said, would qualify as a
''significant cyber incident,'' which was defined as one that causes
''demonstrable harm to the national security interests, foreign relations or
economy of the United States, or to the public confidence, civil liberties or
public health and safety of the American people.''

Ranking the hacking in the pantheon of other penetrated networks is difficult.
The top ranking under Mr. Obama's system would be reserved for an attack that
disabled American power grids, for example, akin to the suspected Russian attack
on Ukraine's electrical system in December. The attack on the Office of
Personnel Management and Sony, which destroyed 70 percent of the studio's
computers, would also rank above the ''category 3'' level, which defines a
''significant'' attack.

But the ranking system does not mandate what kind of response the president
would authorize. And it was designed before many in Washington imagined the use
of cyberattacks to release information in the midst of a dizzying, and volatile,
presidential campaign.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/27/us/politics/spy-agency-consensus-grows-that-ru
ssia-hacked-dnc.html

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State John Kerry and the Russian foreign minister,
Sergey V. Lavrov, on Tuesday in Vientiane, Laos. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JORGE
SILVA/REUTERS) (A17)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        July 28, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

Did Putin Try to Steal an American Election?;
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: NICHOLAS KRISTOF

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 866 words



HIGHLIGHT: The evidence from the hacking of the Democratic committee's computers
points to Russia, and it had reason to favor Trump.


Some foreign leaders settle for stealing billions of dollars. Russia's
president, Vladimir Putin, may have wanted to steal something even more
valuable: an American presidential election.

As our election takes a turn that could be drawn from a Cold War spy novel
(except it would be too implausible), Putin has an obvious favorite in the race:
Donald Trump. "It's crystal clear to me" that Putin favors Trump, says Michael
McFaul, a Stanford professor who was ambassador to Russia until 2014. "If I were
Putin, I would rather deal with Trump, too, given the things he has said about
foreign policy."

Look, Democratic Party leaders exchanged inappropriate emails showing bias for
Hillary Clinton over Bernie Sanders, and a hacker's disclosure has properly
triggered a ruckus. But that scandal pales beside an effort apparently by a
foreign dictatorship to disrupt an American presidential election.

It also seems scandalous to me that Trump on Wednesday effectively invited
Russia to hack into Clinton's computers for deleted emails from when she was
secretary of state, saying at a press conference, "Russia, if you're listening,
I hope you're able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing."

Yes, Trump is entertaining. But increasingly, the antonym of "gravitas" is
"Trump." Clinton could have responded by inviting Russia to hack into Trump's
computers and release his tax returns; she didn't because the hack would be
illegal and her plea would be unpresidential.

In his press conference, Trump also cast doubt on the idea that Russia hacked
the Democratic National Committee's computers. "It's probably not Russia," he
said, suggesting it might be China, or "some guy with a 200 I.Q."

So let's go through the evidence.

America's intelligence agencies have assessed with "high confidence" that
Russia's government was behind the hack, and private security companies have
identified two Russian teams of hackers that were inside D.N.C. computers. One
team is called Cozy Bear and is linked to the F.S.B., the successor to the
K.G.B., and another is called Fancy Bear and is linked to the G.R.U., or Russian
military intelligence. Cyber experts are very familiar with both Cozy Bear and
Fancy Bear.

The next question is whether Russia was also behind the release of the stolen
emails to WikiLeaks. Someone using the name Guccifer 2.0 claimed to be behind
the hack, denied Russian involvement and claimed to be Romanian -- but wrote
Romanian badly. ThreatConnect, a private security firm, issued a meticulous
report showing that Guccifer used a Russia-based VPN (virtual private network)
service and displayed other "heavy traces of Russian activity."

"Guccifer 2.0 is a Russian propaganda effort," ThreatConnect concluded.

After talking to experts, I have the sense that there's considerable confidence
that Russia is the culprit, but more doubt about whether Putin gave the order
and about whether the aim was to benefit Trump or simply to create havoc.

"I think the most likely explanation is that someone in Russian intelligence,
probably very high up, decided to help Donald Trump," said Benjamin Wittes, a
security expert at the Brookings Institution, but he added that there's no solid
evidence for this.

One reason for caution is that history shows that "intelligence community" is
sometimes an oxymoron. In the 1980s, the United States accused Russia of
conducting chemical warfare in Southeast Asia, citing "yellow rain" in jungles
there. Years later, it turned out that this "yellow rain" may have actually been
bee excrement.

Democrats should be particularly wary of hinting that Trump is some sort of
conscious pawn of the Russians, or is controlled by Moscow through financial
investments. It's true that his son Donald Trump Jr. said in 2008 that "we see a
lot of money pouring in from Russia." But do you really think that if Trump were
an agent he would have exaggerated his ties, as he did last year, saying of
Putin, "I got to know him very well"? In fact, Trump acknowledged Wednesday, he
has never even met Putin.

The reason Moscow favors Trump isn't some conspiracy. It's simply that Putin
dislikes Clinton, while Trump's combination of international ignorance and
catastrophic policies would benefit Putin. In particular, Trump's public doubts
about NATO renounce more than half a century of bipartisan orthodoxy on how to
deal with Russia, and undermine the Western alliance that checks Putin.

One nightmare of security specialists is Russia provoking unrest among ethnic
Russians in Estonia, Latvia or Lithuania and then using rioting as an excuse to
intervene. NATO members would be obliged to respond, but frankly it's not clear
that they would -- and Trump's loose rhetoric increases the risk of paralysis
and a collapse of the alliance.

In that sense, Trump poses a national security risk to the West, and that's
reason enough Putin would be thrilled to see him elected president.

I invite you to sign up for my free, twice-weekly email newsletter. Please also
join me on Facebook and Google+, watch my YouTube videos and follow me on
Twitter (@NickKristof).

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 28, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump Eggs on Moscow in Hack of Clinton Email

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER and DAVID E. SANGER; Ashley Parker reported from Doral,
and David E. Sanger from Washington. Reporting was contributed by Alexander
Burns, Amy Chozick and John Harwood from Philadelphia, and Eric Lichtblau from
Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1539 words


DORAL, Fla. -- Donald J. Trump said on Wednesday that he hoped Russian
intelligence services had successfully hacked Hillary Clinton's email, and
encouraged them to publish whatever they may have stolen, essentially urging a
foreign adversary to conduct cyberespionage against a former secretary of state.

''Russia, if you're listening, I hope you're able to find the 30,000 emails that
are missing,'' Mr. Trump said during a news conference here in an apparent
reference to Mrs. Clinton's deleted emails. ''I think you will probably be
rewarded mightily by our press.''

Mr. Trump's call was another bizarre moment in the mystery of whether Vladimir
V. Putin's government has been seeking to influence the United States'
presidential race.

His comments came amid questions about the hacking of the Democratic National
Committee's computer servers, which American intelligence agencies have told the
White House they have ''high confidence'' was the work of the Russian
government.

At the same news conference, Mr. Trump also appeared to leave the door open to
accepting Russia's annexation of Crimea two years ago -- which the United States
and its European allies consider an illegal seizure of territory. That seizure,
and the continued efforts of Russian-aided insurgents to undermine the
government of Ukraine, are the reason that the United States and its allies
still have economic sanctions in force against Moscow.

When asked whether he would recognize Crimea ''as Russian territory'' and lift
the sanctions, Mr. Trump said: ''We'll be looking at that. Yeah, we'll be
looking.''

Mr. Trump's apparent willingness to avoid condemning Mr. Putin's government is a
remarkable departure from United States policy and Republican Party orthodoxy,
and has fueled the questions about Russian meddling in the campaign. Mr. Trump
has denied that, saying at the news conference that he has never met Mr. Putin,
and has no investments in Russia.

''I would treat Vladimir Putin firmly, but there's nothing I can think of that
I'd rather do than have Russia friendly as opposed to the way they are right
now,'' he said, ''so that we can go and knock out ISIS together.''

Mr. Trump later tried to modify his remarks about hacking Mrs. Clinton's emails,
contending they represented an effort to get the Russians to turn over their
trove to the F.B.I.

With the political conventions coming to an end on Thursday, Mr. Trump is
expected to receive his first national security briefings from American
intelligence agencies in coming days. It is unclear whether those briefings --
which describe the global challenges facing the United States but not continuing
covert operations or especially sensitive intelligence -- will change any of his
views.

His comments about Russian hacking came on a day when Obama administration
officials were already beginning to develop options for possible retaliation
against Russia for the attack on the Democratic National Committee. As is often
the case after cyber incidents, the options for responding are limited and can
be viewed as seeming too mild or too escalatory.

The administration has not publicly accused the Russian government of the
Democratic National Committee hacking, or presented evidence to back up such a
case. The leaked documents, first published by a hacker who called himself
''Guccifer 2.0'' and who is now believed to be a character created by Russian
intelligence, portrayed some committee officials as favoring Mrs. Clinton's
candidacy while denigrating her opponent, Senator Bernie Sanders. The release of
the internal party emails and documents led to the resignation of Debbie
Wasserman Schultz as chairwoman of the party.

Mr. Trump contended on Wednesday that the political uproar over whether Russia
was meddling in the election was a ''total deflection'' from the embarrassing
content of the emails. Many Republicans, even some who say they do not support
Mr. Trump, say they agree.

If Mr. Trump is serious in his call for Russian hacking or exposing Mrs.
Clinton's emails, he would be urging a power often hostile to the United States
to violate American law by breaking into a private computer network. He would
also be contradicting the Republican platform, adopted last week in Cleveland,
saying that cyberespionage ''will not be tolerated,'' and promising to ''respond
in kind and in greater magnitude'' to all Chinese and Russian cyberattacks.

In the past, the Obama administration has stopped short of retaliating against
Russia -- at least in any public fashion -- for its attacks on the State
Department and White House unclassified email systems, or on networks used by
the Joint Chiefs of Staff. It never even publicly identified Russian
intelligence as the source of those intrusions, though the subject was widely
discussed by senior United States officials when they were not speaking for
attribution.

In contrast, the United States did bring indictments against Chinese and Iranian
hackers for thefts of intellectual property and attacks on American banks, and
imposed economic sanctions against North Korea in early 2015, for hacking into
Sony Pictures Entertainment's computers.

Almost as soon as Mr. Trump spoke, other Republicans raced in to try to reframe
his remarks and argue that Russia should be punished. A spokesman for Speaker
Paul D. Ryan termed Russia ''a global menace led by a devious thug.'' The
spokesman, Brendan Buck, added: ''Putin should stay out of this election.''

Even Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, Mr. Trump's running mate, issued a statement,
saying that ''if it is Russia and they are interfering in our elections, I can
assure you both parties and the United States government will ensure there are
serious consequences.'' Mr. Pence did not attend Wednesday's news conference
because he was giving local television interviews, and an aide to Mr. Pence said
that his team had written his statement about Russia before Mr. Trump began
speaking.

Shortly after that Mr. Trump sent a message on Twitter  declaring ''If Russia or
any other country or person has Hillary Clinton's 33,000 illegally deleted
emails, perhaps they should share them with the FBI!''

The fact that the Democratic committee's servers were targeted -- and,
apparently, not those of the Republican National Committee -- has brought up
inevitable comparisons with the origins of the Watergate scandal, when burglars
found little after breaking into Democratic committee offices before the 1972
election. The hackers, more than 40 years later, were more successful: A
reconstruction of events suggests the first successful piercing of the
Democrats' networks occurred in June 2015, long before the Russians, or anyone
else, could have known Mr. Trump would get the nomination.

The Clinton campaign, eager to turn the subject from the chaos caused by the
email release to the question of Russian interference, accused Mr. Trump of
encouraging Russian espionage.

''This has to be the first time that a major presidential candidate has actively
encouraged a foreign power to conduct espionage against his political
opponent,'' said Jake Sullivan, Mrs. Clinton's chief foreign policy adviser,
whose emails from when he was a State Department aide were among those that were
hacked.

''This has gone from being a matter of curiosity, and a matter of politics, to
being a national security issue,'' he added.

For his part, Mr. Trump cast doubt on the conclusion that Russia was behind the
hacking. ''I have no idea,'' he said. He said the ''sad thing'' is that ''with
the genius we have in government, we don't even know who took the Democratic
National Committee emails.''

Mr. Trump then argued that if Russia, or any other foreign government, was
behind the hacking, it showed just how little respect other nations had for the
current administration.

''President Trump would be so much better for U.S.-Russian relations'' than a
President Clinton, Mr. Trump said. ''I don't think Putin has any respect
whatsoever for Clinton.''

Former Representative Pete Hoekstra of Michigan, a Republican who had served as
chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said Mr. Trump was right to keep
hammering Mrs. Clinton on the subject of her private emails.

Mr. Hoekstra said he was untroubled by Mr. Trump's goading of a foreign power,
particularly in light of Mrs. Clinton's use of a private server while she was
secretary of state.

''Trump is bringing up a fairly valid point: Hillary Clinton, with her personal
email at the State Department, has put the Russians in a very enviable
position,'' Mr. Hoekstra said. ''Most likely the Russians already have all that
info on Hillary.''

But Representative Jason Chaffetz, a Utah Republican who led the House oversight
committee that looked into Mrs. Clinton's emails, was more critical. If Mr.
Trump's comments were meant literally, he said in an interview, ''I think he was
absolutely wrong and out of line. I would never have said it that way, and I
think it was ill-advised.''

If the remark was tongue-in-cheek, he added, it failed at political humor.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/28/us/politics/donald-trump-russia-clinton-emails
.html

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Donald J. Trump on Wednesday in Doral, Fla. ''President Trump
would be so much better for U.S.-Russian relations'' than a President Clinton,
he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia this month. United States intelligence
agencies are confident that Russia hacked into the Democratic National
Committee's computer servers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEKSEY NIKOLSKYI/SPUTNIK, VIA
AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 28, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Putin, Trump and Our Election

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KRISTOF

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 877 words


Some foreign leaders settle for stealing billions of dollars. Russia's
president, Vladimir Putin, may have wanted to steal something even more
valuable: an American presidential election.

As our election takes a turn that could be drawn from a Cold War spy novel
(except it would be too implausible), Putin has an obvious favorite in the race:
Donald Trump. ''It's crystal clear to me'' that Putin favors Trump, says Michael
McFaul, a Stanford professor who was ambassador to Russia until 2014. ''If I
were Putin, I would rather deal with Trump, too, given the things he has said
about foreign policy.''

Look, Democratic Party leaders exchanged inappropriate emails showing bias for
Hillary Clinton over Bernie Sanders, and a hacker's disclosure has properly
triggered a ruckus. But that scandal pales beside an effort apparently by a
foreign dictatorship to disrupt an American presidential election.

It also seems scandalous to me that Trump on Wednesday effectively invited
Russia to hack into Clinton's computers for deleted emails from when she was
secretary of state, saying at a press conference, ''Russia, if you're listening,
I hope you're able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing.''

Yes, Trump is entertaining. But increasingly, the antonym of ''gravitas'' is
''Trump.'' Clinton could have responded by inviting Russia to hack into Trump's
computers and release his tax returns; she didn't because the hack would be
illegal and her plea would be unpresidential.

In his press conference, Trump also cast doubt on the idea that Russia hacked
the Democratic National Committee's computers. ''It's probably not Russia,'' he
said, suggesting it might be China, or ''some guy with a 200 I.Q.''

So let's go through the evidence.

America's intelligence agencies have assessed with ''high confidence'' that
Russia's government was behind the hack, and private security companies have
identified two Russian teams of hackers that were inside D.N.C. computers. One
team is called Cozy Bear and is linked to the F.S.B., the successor to the
K.G.B., and another is called Fancy Bear and is linked to the G.R.U., or Russian
military intelligence. Cyber experts are very familiar with both Cozy Bear and
Fancy Bear.

The next question is whether Russia was also behind the release of the stolen
emails to WikiLeaks. Someone using the name Guccifer 2.0 claimed to be behind
the hack, denied Russian involvement and claimed to be Romanian -- but wrote
Romanian badly. ThreatConnect, a private security firm, issued a meticulous
report showing that Guccifer used a Russia-based VPN (virtual private network)
service and displayed other ''heavy traces of Russian activity.''

''Guccifer 2.0 is a Russian propaganda effort,'' ThreatConnect concluded.

After talking to experts, I have the sense that there's considerable confidence
that Russia is the culprit, but more doubt about whether Putin gave the order
and about whether the aim was to benefit Trump or simply to create havoc.

''I think the most likely explanation is that someone in Russian intelligence,
probably very high up, decided to help Donald Trump,'' said Benjamin Wittes, a
security expert at the Brookings Institution, but he added that there's no solid
evidence for this.

One reason for caution is that history shows that ''intelligence community'' is
sometimes an oxymoron. In the 1980s, the United States accused Russia of
conducting chemical warfare in Southeast Asia, citing ''yellow rain'' in jungles
there. Years later, it turned out that this ''yellow rain'' may have actually
been bee excrement.

Democrats should be particularly wary of hinting that Trump is some sort of
conscious pawn of the Russians, or is controlled by Moscow through financial
investments. It's true that his son Donald Trump Jr. said in 2008 that ''we see
a lot of money pouring in from Russia.'' But do you really think that if Trump
were an agent he would have exaggerated his ties, as he did last year, saying of
Putin, ''I got to know him very well''? In fact, Trump acknowledged Wednesday,
he has never even met Putin.

The reason Moscow favors Trump isn't some conspiracy. It's simply that Putin
dislikes Clinton, while Trump's combination of international ignorance and
catastrophic policies would benefit Putin. In particular, Trump's public doubts
about NATO renounce more than half a century of bipartisan orthodoxy on how to
deal with Russia, and undermine the Western alliance that checks Putin.

One nightmare of security specialists is Russia provoking unrest among ethnic
Russians in Estonia, Latvia or Lithuania and then using rioting as an excuse to
intervene. NATO members would be obliged to respond, but frankly it's not clear
that they would -- and Trump's loose rhetoric increases the risk of paralysis
and a collapse of the alliance.

In that sense, Trump poses a national security risk to the West, and that's
reason enough Putin would be thrilled to see him elected president.

I invite you to sign up for my free, twice-weekly email newsletter. Please also
join me on Facebook and Google+, watch my YouTube videos and follow me on
Twitter (@NickKristof).

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/28/opinion/did-putin-try-to-steal-an-american-ele
ction.html

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        July 30, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

How to Counter the Putin Playbook;
Opinion

BYLINE: MICHAEL A. McFAUL

SECTION: OPINION; sunday

LENGTH: 1342 words



HIGHLIGHT: Undermining democracies is part of Russia's plan to extend its
influence. The U.S. must push back.


Palo Alto, Calif. -- A quarter-century ago, at the end of the Cold War, it
seemed that only democracies promoted their values abroad. Today, autocracies
have entered the arena again, exporting their ideas and methods -- even to the
United States.

Everywhere, autocrats are pushing back against democrats, and President Vladimir
V. Putin of Russia is the de facto leader of this global movement.

Since returning to the Kremlin in 2012, Mr. Putin has consolidated his hold on
power in Russia. With renewed vigor, he's weakened civil society, undermined
independent media, suppressed any opposition and scared off big business from
supporting government critics. And he made the United States and its senior
officials unwitting elements of his malign strategy.

While I was the United States ambassador to Russia, Mr. Putin accused President
Obama's administration of seeking to foment revolution against him -- as,
allegedly, we had done in Tunisia, Egypt, Libya and Syria during the Arab
Spring. Russia's state-controlled media portrayed Russian protesters as
traitors, puppets of the United States, who took money and orders from
Washington. Mr. Putin took special offense to Hillary Clinton, then secretary of
state , claiming her criticism of the fairness of the 2011 Russian parliamentary
election was a "signal" to Russian demonstrators.

While chastising us for supposedly meddling in his internal affairs, Mr. Putin
expanded his campaign to weaken democracy abroad. Kremlin-aligned media like the
TV station RT have championed his policies internationally, while challenging
the legitimacy of democratic leaders, including our own president. Around the
world, but especially in Europe, the Russian government supports -- by both
rhetorical and financial means -- political parties and organizations with
illiberal, nationalist agendas. Russia's 2014 annexation of Crimea and its
intervention in eastern Ukraine in support of separatists, as well as the
invasion of Georgia in 2008, were violent efforts to destabilize new
democracies.

Many are impressed and aim to copy the Putin playbook. Autocrats in Asia, the
Middle East and Africa have emulated Mr. Putin's draconian laws restricting
civil society groups. The leader of France's far-right National Front, Marine Le
Pen, has praised Mr. Putin and his policies; her party has taken a $10 million
loan from a Russian bank and seeks another $30 million for next year's
presidential election. Two champions of the Brexit campaign -- Nigel Farage, the
former leader of the anti-immigrant U.K. Independence Party, and Boris Johnson,
a Conservative member of Parliament and now Britain's foreign minister -- have
spoken fondly of Mr. Putin. So, too, does Hungary's increasingly authoritarian
prime minister, Viktor Orban. The Republican Party nominee for president, Donald
J. Trump, has frequently praised Mr. Putin. "He's a strong leader," Mr. Trump
said in December.

As well as overt means, Mr. Putin has deployed cyber methods of subversion. This
week, WikiLeaks released emails stolen from the Democratic National Committee.
This action by a foreign agent prompted the resignation of the Democratic
National Committee chairwoman and raised new electoral challenges for the
Democrats' presidential nominee, Hillary Clinton. American intelligence agencies
have "high confidence" that the Russian government stole the data -- and likely
also hacked into the Clinton campaign's computer systems. While we can't be
certain yet whether its agents passed the data directly to WikiLeaks, the
circumstantial evidence points overwhelmingly to Russia. Who else?

We also know that Russia's use of signals intelligence to advance an
antidemocratic agenda is not a new tactic. I have firsthand experience. During
my stint as ambassador, Russian agents secretly recorded a conversation I had
with American business executives at a Moscow hotel and published my remarks in
a way to make it sound as if the United States was plotting against the Russian
government. In 2014, an intercepted phone call between America's ambassador in
Ukraine and Assistant Secretary of State Victoria Nuland was leaked to suggest
that Washington was choosing the new government in Kiev. Against Russian
opposition leaders, the Kremlin deploys such tactics all the time.

Mr. Putin may be the boldest but he is not alone in this growing movement.
China's economic success challenges democracy's appeal. Iranian theocrats hold
on to power at home and defend autocrats like President Bashar al-Assad of
Syria. Elsewhere in the Middle East, strongmen like President Abdel Fattah
el-Sisi of Egypt are ascendant, forcing their citizens and foreign allies to
accept their repressions as supposed protection from Islamist extremists. Saudi
Arabia intervened in Bahrain to crush a democratic movement there in 2011, while
private Arab foundations continue to promote illiberal ideas throughout the
region and beyond.

Mr. Putin is expanding his playbook just when America is roiled by strong
isolationist currents and aggravated by demagogy that would have us disengage
from multilateral institutions like NATO, cut our overseas security commitments
and stop defending human rights abroad. This is Mr. Trump's argument. "When it
comes to civil liberties, our country has a lot of problems," he said this
month, "and I think it's very hard for us to get involved in other countries
when we don't know what we are doing and we can't see straight in our own
country."

To inspire democracy abroad, we must of course practice it better at home. But
we should reject the moral relativism that says because our own union is not
perfect, we are no different from the despots.

We will not find security in isolationism. No missile defense shield,
cybersecurity program, tariff or border wall can protect us if we disengage.
Menacing autocracies, illiberal ideas, and antidemocratic and terrorist
movements will not just leave us alone or wither away. The threats will grow and
eventually endanger our peace, as we saw in Europe and Japan in the 1930s, and
Afghanistan in the 1990s.

Conversely, the growth of democracy around the world serves American interests.
Democracies do not threaten us; autocracies do. Democratic allies also vote with
us at the United Nations, go to war with us, support international treaties and
norms, and stand with us against tyranny.

So we must push back, in new ways. Just as the Kremlin has become more
sophisticated at exporting its ideas and supporting its friends, so must we.

We should think of advancing democratic ideas abroad primarily as an educational
project, almost never as a military campaign. Universities, books and websites
are the best tools, not the 82nd Airborne. The United States can expand
resources for learning about democracy.

Direct financial assistance to democrats is problematic: A check from an
American embassy can taint its recipients. America's next president should
privatize such aid and help seed new independent foundations. Internet access
and the free flow of information, the lifeblood of independent media and civil
society, should be universal rights we champion.

America should also focus its economic and political assistance on new
democracies like Myanmar and Tunisia, which are most fragile in their first
years of transition. The stakes are especially high in Ukraine; there would be
no greater gift to Mr. Putin than to let Kiev's experiment in democracy perish.

The world still looks to its oldest democracy, the United States, to lead. If
not us, who?

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for theOpinion Today newsletter.

Michael A. McFaul, the director of the Freeman Spogli Institute and a senior
fellow at the Hoover Institution, both at Stanford, served as United States
ambassador to the Russian Federation from 2012 to 2014.

PHOTO: A rally in Red Square, Moscow, on March 18, 2014, when President Vladimir
V. Putin asked the Russian Parliament to make the annexation of Crimea official.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        July 30, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

U.S. Wrestles With How to Fight Back Against Cyberattacks

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1723 words



HIGHLIGHT: The hacking into Democratic campaign computer systems is forcing the
White House to confront a new question: whether, and if so how, to retaliate.


ASPEN, Colo. -- It has been an open secret throughout the Obama presidency that
world powers have escalated their use of cyberpower. But the recent revelations
of hacking into Democratic campaign computer systems in an apparent attempt to
manipulate the 2016 election is forcing the White House to confront a new
question: whether, and if so how, to retaliate.

So far, the administration has stopped short of publicly accusing the Russian
government of President Vladimir V. Putin of engineering the theft of research
and emails from the Democratic National Committee and hacking into other
campaign computer systems. However, private investigators have identified the
suspects, and American intelligence agencies have told the White House that they
have "high confidence" that the Russian government was responsible.

Less certain is who is behind the selective leaks of the material, and whether
they have a clear political objective. Suspecting such meddling is different
from proving it with a certainty sufficient for any American president to order
a response.

Even if officials gather the proof, they may not be able to make their evidence
public without tipping off Russia, or its proxies in cyberspace, about how
deeply the National Security Agency has penetrated that country's networks. And
designing a response that will send a clear message, without prompting
escalation or undermining efforts to work with Russia in places like Syria,
where Russia is simultaneously an adversary and a partner, is even harder.

The Russians tried to make it tougher still on Saturday when they declared that
they had found evidence of American activity in their government systems.

It was hardly a shocking revelation; anyone who leafed through Edward J.
Snowden's revelations saw evidence of daily efforts to break into Russian spy
agencies, nuclear installations and leadership compounds.

But in a talk on Friday evening at the Aspen Security Forum, an annual gathering
that draws many of the nation's top intelligence and military officials, John O.
Brennan, the director of the Central Intelligence Agency, made clear that while
spying on each other's political institutions is fair game, making data public
-- in true or altered form -- to influence an election is a new level of
malicious activity, far different from ordinary spy vs. spy maneuvers.

"When it is determined who is responsible for this," Mr. Brennan said, choosing
his words carefully to avoid any direct implication of Russia, there "will be
discussions at the highest levels of government about what the right course of
action will be. Obviously interference in the U.S. election process is a very,
very serious matter."

The Russia problem is thorny, and persistent. Just four months into his
presidency in 2009, President Obama and his top national security advisers
received a warning from American intelligence agencies: Of all the nations
targeting America's computer networks, a National Intelligence Estimate warned,
Russia had the most "robust, longstanding program that combines a patient,
multidisciplinary approach to computer network operations with proven access and
tradecraft."

Mr. Obama might have been a bit distracted at the time. While setting up his new
administration, he was also learning the dark arts of cyberwar, descending into
the Situation Room to oversee a complex American-Israeli offensive operation to
disable Iran's nuclear centrifuges. He expressed concern to his aides that the
operation would help fuel the escalation of cyberattacks and counterattacks.

The concern was justified. Since then, Iran has attacked Saudi Arabia, Russia
has brought down a power grid in Ukraine, the North Koreans have attacked the
South. The list gets longer every month.

But deterrence has been spotty. In the Democratic National Committee case, two
senior administration officials spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss
the options, ranging from countercyberattacks on the F.S.B. and the G.R.U., two
competing Russian spy agencies at the center of the current hacking, to
economic, travel and other sanctions aimed at suspected perpetrators.

At the event in Aspen on Saturday afternoon, Lisa O. Monaco, Mr. Obama's
homeland security adviser, sidestepped specific discussion of the D.N.C. hacking
but acknowledged that the administration might soon have to consider whether the
United States' electoral system constitutes "critical infrastructure," like the
power grid or the cellphone network.

"I think it's a serious question," she said, especially if there is "coercion,
destruction, manipulation of data." Ms. Monaco noted that whenever the United
States thinks about retaliation, "the danger of escalation and misinterpretation
is such that we have to be responsible about it." But she also said that if an
event were serious enough, "we have to be very clear we will respond."

The cost of doing nothing could be high. As the United States and other nations
move to more electronic voting systems, the opportunities for mischief rise.
Imagine, for example, a vote as close as the 2000 presidential election between
George W. Bush and Al Gore, but with accusations about impossible-to-trace
foreign manipulation of the ballots or the vote count, leaving Americans
wondering about the validity of the outcome.

For Mr. Obama, the president who has done the most to raise alarms about the
risks of cyberattacks and the most to build up the United States Cyber Command,
this territory is fraught with politics, intelligence trade-offs and questions
of American values.

"I think that the administration needs to be ironclad on the evidence here to
convince the American people that this is about policy, not politics," said
Jason Healey, a scholar at Columbia University who specializes in cyberconflict
between nations. "This has got to be about defending a constitutional process,
not a party."

Last week, two California Democrats who specialize in intelligence issues,
Representative Adam B. Schiff and Senator Dianne Feinstein, sent Mr. Obama a
letter urging him to make public the intelligence assessments on the Democratic
National Committee hacking.

Mr. Obama often says the world of cyberconflict is still "the Wild West." There
are no treaties, no international laws, just a patchwork set of emerging "norms"
of what constitutes acceptable behavior.

For example, Mr. Obama has pressed President Xi Jinping of China to work with
the United States and other nations to develop rules about the theft of
intellectual property, and about not interfering with a nation's efforts to
bring attacked systems back online. Attacking another nation's power grid in
peacetime is considered out of bounds.

But every new case brings a new and imaginative way to weaponize cyberpower.
Until November 2014, when North Korea hacked into the computers at Sony Pictures
Entertainment in retaliation for a comedy that portrayed a C.I.A. plot to
assassinate Kim Jong-un, the country's leader, no one seriously considered a
movie studio to be "critical infrastructure."

Yet the attack on Sony -- which melted down 70 percent of its computing power --
was the only case that brought the president to the White House press room to
accuse another nation of launching a deliberate cyberattack, and to promise
retaliation. Mr. Obama said he was driven to go public by the fact that North
Korea was trying to suppress free speech and intimidate Americans with threats
if they went to the theater.

It is unclear how the United States may have retaliated against the North in
secret, if it even did so. But the public punishment, the announcement of some
mild economic sanctions, seemed highly ineffective. They were lost in the sea of
other sanctions imposed on the North since the signing of the armistice that
halted, but did not end, the Korean War 63 years ago.

Yet the decision to name North Korea -- a country with which the United States
does no other real business -- was an outlier.

China was never formally named in the theft of the security clearance files on
more than 21 million Americans, revealing fingerprints, personal financial
details and the personal data about family, friends and former lovers. To James
R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, that was not an "attack,"
it was just very good espionage. Given the chance, he said last year, "we would
have done the same thing."

Similarly, the administration decided not to call out Russia when the same
intelligence agencies implicated in the D.N.C. attack were believed to be behind
the siphoning of tens of thousands of unclassified emails from the systems of
the State Department and the White House. There was also a more targeted
cyberespionage operation, which investigators attributed to the same actors,
aimed at the Joint Chiefs of Staff. But again, it was considered within the
bounds of spy vs. spy.

Speaking at the Aspen forum on Thursday, Mr. Clapper, while stepping around who
had conducted the hacking, said that in Mr. Putin's mind, the United States had
meddled in Russian politics, in Ukraine and Georgia -- all part of former Soviet
territory. (Mr. Putin complained that Hillary Clinton, in 2011, helped spark
protests over a Russian parliamentary election that the United States considered
riddled with voter fraud.)

"Of course they see a U.S. conspiracy behind every bush and ascribe far more
impact than we're actually guilty of, but that's their mind-set," Mr. Clapper
said. "And so I think their approach is they believe we are trying to influence
political developments in Russia, trying to effect change, and so their natural
response is to retaliate and do unto us as they think we've done unto them."

He later described Mr. Putin as "paranoid" and said "he is less of a throwback
to the Communist era, than to the czars." He added later: "He wants to be seen
as the leader of a great power, coequal with the United States."

Eric Schmitt contributed reporting.

PHOTO: President Obama during a visit to a government cybersecurity center in
Arlington, Va., in 2015. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(A20)

Related Articles


     ·    How to Counter the Putin Playbook
     ·    Computer Systems Used by Clinton Campaign Are Said to Be Hacked,
          Apparently by Russians
     ·    Is D.N.C. Email Hacker a Person or a Russian Front? Experts Aren't
          Sure
     ·    Russia, Suspected in Hacking, Has Uneasy History With Hillary Clinton


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 31, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Questions Loom Over a Response to Cyberattacks

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; Eric Schmitt contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1662 words


ASPEN, Colo. -- It has been an open secret throughout the Obama presidency that
world powers have escalated their use of cyberpower. But the recent revelations
of hacking into Democratic campaign computer systems in an apparent attempt to
manipulate the 2016 election is forcing the White House to confront a new
question: whether, and if so how, to retaliate.

So far, the administration has stopped short of publicly accusing the Russian
government of President Vladimir V. Putin of engineering the theft of research
and emails from the Democratic National Committee and hacking into other
campaign computer systems. However, private investigators have identified the
suspects, and American intelligence agencies have told the White House that they
have ''high confidence'' that the Russian government was responsible.

Less certain is who is behind the selective leaks of the material, and whether
they have a clear political objective. Suspecting such meddling is different
from proving it with a certainty sufficient for any American president to order
a response.

Even if officials gather the proof, they may not be able to make their evidence
public without tipping off Russia, or its proxies in cyberspace, about how
deeply the National Security Agency has penetrated that country's networks. And
designing a response that will send a clear message, without prompting
escalation or undermining efforts to work with Russia in places like Syria,
where Russia is simultaneously an adversary and a partner, is even harder.

The Russians tried to make it tougher still on Saturday when they declared that
they had found evidence of American activity in their government systems.

It was hardly a shocking revelation; anyone who leafed through Edward J.
Snowden's revelations saw evidence of daily efforts to break into Russian spy
agencies, nuclear installations and leadership compounds.

But in a talk on Friday evening at the Aspen Security Forum, an annual gathering
that draws many of the nation's top intelligence and military officials, John O.
Brennan, the director of the Central Intelligence Agency, made clear that while
spying on each other's political institutions is fair game, making data public
-- in true or altered form -- to influence an election is a new level of
malicious activity, far different from ordinary spy vs. spy maneuvers.

''When it is determined who is responsible for this,'' Mr. Brennan said,
choosing his words carefully to avoid any direct implication of Russia, there
''will be discussions at the highest levels of government about what the right
course of action will be. Obviously interference in the U.S. election process is
a very, very serious matter.''

The Russia problem is thorny, and persistent. Just four months into his
presidency in 2009, President Obama and his top national security advisers
received a warning from American intelligence agencies: Of all the nations
targeting America's computer networks, a National Intelligence Estimate warned,
Russia had the most ''robust, longstanding program that combines a patient,
multidisciplinary approach to computer network operations with proven access and
tradecraft.''

Mr. Obama might have been a bit distracted at the time. While setting up his new
administration, he was also learning the dark arts of cyberwar, descending into
the Situation Room to oversee a complex American-Israeli offensive operation to
disable Iran's nuclear centrifuges. He expressed concern to his aides that the
operation would help fuel the escalation of cyberattacks and counterattacks.

The concern was justified. Since then, Iran has attacked Saudi Arabia, Russia
has brought down a power grid in Ukraine, the North Koreans have attacked the
South. The list gets longer every month.

But deterrence has been spotty. In the Democratic National Committee case, two
senior administration officials spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss
the options, ranging from countercyberattacks on the F.S.B. and the G.R.U., two
competing Russian spy agencies at the center of the current hacking, to
economic, travel and other sanctions aimed at suspected perpetrators.

At the event in Aspen on Saturday afternoon, Lisa O. Monaco, Mr. Obama's
homeland security adviser, sidestepped specific discussion of the D.N.C. hacking
but acknowledged that the administration might soon have to consider whether the
United States' electoral system constitutes ''critical infrastructure,'' like
the power grid or the cellphone network.

''I think it's a serious question,'' she said, especially if there is
''coercion, destruction, manipulation of data.'' Ms. Monaco noted that whenever
the United States thinks about retaliation, ''the danger of escalation and
misinterpretation is such that we have to be responsible about it.'' But she
also said that if an event were serious enough, ''we have to be very clear we
will respond.''

The cost of doing nothing could be high. As the United States and other nations
move to more electronic voting systems, the opportunities for mischief rise.
Imagine, for example, a vote as close as the 2000 presidential election between
George W. Bush and Al Gore, but with accusations about impossible-to-trace
foreign manipulation of the ballots or the vote count, leaving Americans
wondering about the validity of the outcome.

For Mr. Obama, the president who has done the most to raise alarms about the
risks of cyberattacks and the most to build up the United States Cyber Command,
this territory is fraught with politics, intelligence trade-offs and questions
of American values.

''I think that the administration needs to be ironclad on the evidence here to
convince the American people that this is about policy, not politics,'' said
Jason Healey, a scholar at Columbia University who specializes in cyberconflict
between nations. ''This has got to be about defending a constitutional process,
not a party.''

Last week, two California Democrats who specialize in intelligence issues,
Representative Adam B. Schiff and Senator Dianne Feinstein, sent Mr. Obama a
letter urging him to make public the intelligence assessments on the Democratic
National Committee hacking.

Mr. Obama often says the world of cyberconflict is still ''the Wild West.''
There are no treaties, no international laws, just a patchwork set of emerging
''norms'' of what constitutes acceptable behavior.

For example, Mr. Obama has pressed President Xi Jinping of China to work with
the United States and other nations to develop rules about the theft of
intellectual property, and about not interfering with a nation's efforts to
bring attacked systems back online. Attacking another nation's power grid in
peacetime is considered out of bounds.

But every new case brings a new and imaginative way to weaponize cyberpower.
Until November 2014, when North Korea hacked into the computers at Sony Pictures
Entertainment in retaliation for a comedy that portrayed a C.I.A. plot to
assassinate Kim Jong-un, the country's leader, no one seriously considered a
movie studio to be ''critical infrastructure.''

Yet the attack on Sony -- which melted down 70 percent of its computing power --
was the only case that brought the president to the White House press room to
accuse another nation of launching a deliberate cyberattack, and to promise
retaliation. Mr. Obama said he was driven to go public by the fact that North
Korea was trying to suppress free speech and intimidate Americans with threats
if they went to the theater.

It is unclear how the United States may have retaliated against the North in
secret, if it even did so. But the public punishment, the announcement of some
mild economic sanctions, seemed highly ineffective. They were lost in the sea of
other sanctions imposed on the North since the signing of the armistice that
halted, but did not end, the Korean War 63 years ago.

Yet the decision to name North Korea -- a country with which the United States
does no other real business -- was an outlier.

China was never formally named in the theft of the security clearance files on
more than 21 million Americans, revealing fingerprints, personal financial
details and the personal data about family, friends and former lovers. To James
R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, that was not an
''attack,'' it was just very good espionage. Given the chance, he said last
year, ''we would have done the same thing.''

Similarly, the administration decided not to call out Russia when the same
intelligence agencies implicated in the D.N.C. attack were believed to be behind
the siphoning of tens of thousands of unclassified emails from the systems of
the State Department and the White House. There was also a more targeted
cyberespionage operation, which investigators attributed to the same actors,
aimed at the Joint Chiefs of Staff. But again, it was considered within the
bounds of spy vs. spy.

Speaking at the Aspen forum on Thursday, Mr. Clapper, while stepping around who
had conducted the hacking, said that in Mr. Putin's mind, the United States had
meddled in Russian politics, in Ukraine and Georgia -- all part of former Soviet
territory. (Mr. Putin complained that Hillary Clinton, in 2011, helped spark
protests over a Russian parliamentary election that the United States considered
riddled with voter fraud.)

''Of course they see a U.S. conspiracy behind every bush and ascribe far more
impact than we're actually guilty of, but that's their mind-set,'' Mr. Clapper
said. ''And so I think their approach is they believe we are trying to influence
political developments in Russia, trying to effect change, and so their natural
response is to retaliate and do unto us as they think we've done unto them.''

He later described Mr. Putin as ''paranoid'' and said ''he is less of a
throwback to the Communist era, than to the czars.'' He added later: ''He wants
to be seen as the leader of a great power, coequal with the United States.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/31/us/politics/us-wrestles-with-how-to-fight-back
-against-cyberattacks.html

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama during a visit to a government cybersecurity
center in Arlington, Va., in 2015. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 31, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Countering the Putin Playbook

BYLINE: By MICHAEL A. McFAUL.

Michael A. McFaul, the director of the Freeman Spogli Institute and a senior
fellow at the Hoover Institution, both at Stanford, served as United States
ambassador to the Russian Federation from 2012 to 2014.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1281 words


Palo Alto, Calif. -- A quarter-century ago, at the end of the Cold War, it
seemed that only democracies promoted their values abroad. Today, autocracies
have entered the arena again, exporting their ideas and methods -- even to the
United States.

Everywhere, autocrats are pushing back against democrats, and President Vladimir
V. Putin of Russia is the de facto leader of this global movement.

Since returning to the Kremlin in 2012, Mr. Putin has consolidated his hold on
power in Russia. With renewed vigor, he's weakened civil society, undermined
independent media, suppressed any opposition and scared off big business from
supporting government critics. And he made the United States and its senior
officials unwitting elements of his malign strategy.

While I was the United States ambassador to Russia, Mr. Putin accused President
Obama's administration of seeking to foment revolution against him -- as,
allegedly, we had done in Tunisia, Egypt, Libya and Syria during the Arab
Spring. Russia's state-controlled media portrayed Russian protesters as
traitors, puppets of the United States, who took money and orders from
Washington. Mr. Putin took special offense to Hillary Clinton, then secretary of
state , claiming her criticism of the fairness of the 2011 Russian parliamentary
election was a ''signal'' to Russian demonstrators.

While chastising us for supposedly meddling in his internal affairs, Mr. Putin
expanded his campaign to weaken democracy abroad. Kremlin-aligned media like the
TV station RT have championed his policies internationally, while challenging
the legitimacy of democratic leaders, including our own president. Around the
world, but especially in Europe, the Russian government supports -- by both
rhetorical and financial means -- political parties and organizations with
illiberal, nationalist agendas. Russia's 2014 annexation of Crimea and its
intervention in eastern Ukraine in support of separatists, as well as the
invasion of Georgia in 2008, were violent efforts to destabilize new
democracies.

Many are impressed and aim to copy the Putin playbook. Autocrats in Asia, the
Middle East and Africa have emulated Mr. Putin's draconian laws restricting
civil society groups. The leader of France's far-right National Front, Marine Le
Pen, has praised Mr. Putin and his policies; her party has taken a $10 million
loan from a Russian bank and seeks another $30 million for next year's
presidential election. Two champions of the Brexit campaign -- Nigel Farage, the
former leader of the anti-immigrant U.K. Independence Party, and Boris Johnson,
a Conservative member of Parliament and now Britain's foreign minister -- have
spoken fondly of Mr. Putin. So, too, does Hungary's increasingly authoritarian
prime minister, Viktor Orban. The Republican Party nominee for president, Donald
J. Trump, has frequently praised Mr. Putin. ''He's a strong leader,'' Mr. Trump
said in December.

As well as overt means, Mr. Putin has deployed cyber methods of subversion. This
week, WikiLeaks released emails stolen from the Democratic National Committee.
This action by a foreign agent prompted the resignation of the Democratic
National Committee chairwoman and raised new electoral challenges for the
Democrats' presidential nominee, Hillary Clinton. American intelligence agencies
have ''high confidence'' that the Russian government stole the data -- and
likely also hacked into the Clinton campaign's computer systems. While we can't
be certain yet whether its agents passed the data directly to WikiLeaks, the
circumstantial evidence points overwhelmingly to Russia. Who else?

We also know that Russia's use of signals intelligence to advance an
antidemocratic agenda is not a new tactic. I have firsthand experience. During
my stint as ambassador, Russian agents secretly recorded a conversation I had
with American business executives at a Moscow hotel and published my remarks in
a way to make it sound as if the United States was plotting against the Russian
government. In 2014, an intercepted phone call between America's ambassador in
Ukraine and Assistant Secretary of State Victoria Nuland was leaked to suggest
that Washington was choosing the new government in Kiev. Against Russian
opposition leaders, the Kremlin deploys such tactics all the time.

Mr. Putin may be the boldest but he is not alone in this growing movement.
China's economic success challenges democracy's appeal. Iranian theocrats hold
on to power at home and defend autocrats like President Bashar al-Assad of
Syria. Elsewhere in the Middle East, strongmen like President Abdel Fattah
el-Sisi of Egypt are ascendant, forcing their citizens and foreign allies to
accept their repressions as supposed protection from Islamist extremists. Saudi
Arabia intervened in Bahrain to crush a democratic movement there in 2011, while
private Arab foundations continue to promote illiberal ideas throughout the
region and beyond.

Mr. Putin is expanding his playbook just when America is roiled by strong
isolationist currents and aggravated by demagogy that would have us disengage
from multilateral institutions like NATO, cut our overseas security commitments
and stop defending human rights abroad. This is Mr. Trump's argument. ''When it
comes to civil liberties, our country has a lot of problems,'' he said this
month, ''and I think it's very hard for us to get involved in other countries
when we don't know what we are doing and we can't see straight in our own
country.''

To inspire democracy abroad, we must of course practice it better at home. But
we should reject the moral relativism that says because our own union is not
perfect, we are no different from the despots.

We will not find security in isolationism. No missile defense shield,
cybersecurity program, tariff or border wall can protect us if we disengage.
Menacing autocracies, illiberal ideas, and antidemocratic and terrorist
movements will not just leave us alone or wither away. The threats will grow and
eventually endanger our peace, as we saw in Europe and Japan in the 1930s, and
Afghanistan in the 1990s.

Conversely, the growth of democracy around the world serves American interests.
Democracies do not threaten us; autocracies do. Democratic allies also vote with
us at the United Nations, go to war with us, support international treaties and
norms, and stand with us against tyranny.

So we must push back, in new ways. Just as the Kremlin has become more
sophisticated at exporting its ideas and supporting its friends, so must we.

We should think of advancing democratic ideas abroad primarily as an educational
project, almost never as a military campaign. Universities, books and websites
are the best tools, not the 82nd Airborne. The United States can expand
resources for learning about democracy.

Direct financial assistance to democrats is problematic: A check from an
American embassy can taint its recipients. America's next president should
privatize such aid and help seed new independent foundations. Internet access
and the free flow of information, the lifeblood of independent media and civil
society, should be universal rights we champion.

America should also focus its economic and political assistance on new
democracies like Myanmar and Tunisia, which are most fragile in their first
years of transition. The stakes are especially high in Ukraine; there would be
no greater gift to Mr. Putin than to let Kiev's experiment in democracy perish.

The world still looks to its oldest democracy, the United States, to lead. If
not us, who?

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/31/opinion/sunday/how-to-counter-the-putin-playbo
ok.html

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A rally in Red Square, Moscow, on March 18, 2014, when President
Vladimir V. Putin asked the Russian Parliament to make the annexation of Crimea
official. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 4, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Florida Company Gets Approval to Land Robot on Moon

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1132 words


A small start-up has received the green light from the federal government to do
something that NASA has not done for more than four decades: land on the moon.

Moon Express, based in Cape Canaveral, Fla., announced Wednesday that it had
received approval from the Federal Aviation Administration to set a robotic
lander on the moon.

That feat would win the Google Lunar X Prize competition for the first private
organization to reach the moon and an accompanying $20 million reward.

But more than the prize, company officials say that it will be the opening of a
profitable frontier for entrepreneurs. ''Rephrasing John F. Kennedy, we choose
to go to the moon not because it's easy, but because it's a good business,''
said Naveen Jain, the Moon Express chairman. ''Everything we fight over --
whether it's land or it's fresh water, whether it is energy -- is in abundance
in space.''

Moon Express has a ways to go before it can reach the lunar surface, which it
hopes to do next year. It still has to assemble the lander. The rocket that it
plans to launch on has yet to fly even once.

And one of its competitors could beat it to the moon, and the $20 million.

The approval reflects an effort to encourage 21st-century commercial space
endeavors while staying within an international space treaty written 49 years
ago when outer space was a rivalry between the United States and the Soviet
Union, and the idea of a start-up going to the moon an unlikely fantasy.

''There are a lot of things in the treaties we're testing the limits of right
now,'' said Henry R. Hertzfeld, a professor of space policy and international
affairs at George Washington University in Washington. ''We're trying to define
them in ways that will encourage private investment and private opportunities
but not violate any international agreements.''

At present, commercial ventures have gone as far out as geosynchronous orbit,
the telecommunication satellites that fly 22,236 miles above the Earth. Moon
Express wants to go 10 times as far, to the moon, a place where just three
nations have landed: the United States, the Soviet Union and, more recently,
China.

The X Prizes, started by Peter H. Diamandis, an entrepreneur, seek to recreate
the barnstorming prizes of the early 20th century that spurred aviation advances
like Charles Lindbergh's flight across the Atlantic. The first X Prize, for the
first private piloted vehicle to reach space, led to the development of
SpaceShipOne, a rocket-powered plane that made two flights in two weeks in 2004
to win the $10 million prize.

In the bubbly optimism that followed, the X Prize Foundation enlisted Google to
finance reaching the loftier target of the moon. The Google Lunar X Prize,
announced in 2007, called for putting a spacecraft on the moon that would be
able to send back video and images and also move more than 500 meters. The first
team to achieve that would claim $20 million; second place would be rewarded
with $5 million.

More than 30 teams signed up, including Moon Express, founded in 2010 by Mr.
Jain, who made a fortune creating the website InfoSpace and then lost most of it
in the internet bust of 2000; Robert D. Richards, a space entrepreneur; and
Barney Pell, a former NASA computer scientist.

The original deadline, at the end of 2012, was extended several times; now the
remaining 16 teams have until Dec. 31, 2017, to claim the prize. Two teams, Moon
Express and SpaceIL, an Israeli nonprofit, have secured launch contracts for
their spacecraft.

As Moon Express worked on its MX-1 lander, company officials realized that they
had other hurdles: paperwork and international treaties.

The Outer Space Treaty prohibits nations from claiming sovereignty over the moon
or other parts of the solar system. It also states: ''The activities of
nongovernmental entities in outer space, including the moon and other celestial
bodies, shall require authorization and continuing supervision by the
appropriate state party to the treaty.''

The United States fought to include that clause, rejecting the Soviet view that
space exploration should be limited to governments, said Matthew Schaefer, the
director of the space, cyber and telecommunications law program at the
University of Nebraska.

While the American negotiators did not necessarily foresee a company like Moon
Express, ''the U.S. government wanted to keep that option open,'' Professor
Schaefer said.

Nonetheless, that would have been a roadblock, said Dr. Richards, Moon Express's
chief executive, because the United States did not have any procedures for
authorizing and supervising what companies like Moon Express want to do.

''Any application to the U.S. government would have been vetoed by the State
Department, due to the lack of regulatory frameworks that would allow the U.S.
government to remain in compliance with the Outer Space Treaty,'' he said.

Instead, the process for approval was routed through the F.A.A., which regulates
commercial rocket launches and payloads headed to space. In 2013, Bigelow
Aerospace, a company that builds inflatable structures that could one day be
used as lunar habitats, suggested that the F.A.A. use this process to coordinate
competing commercial efforts, at least among American companies.

Moon Express has now employed this payload review process for its lunar trip.
The F.A.A. sent its approval on July 20, the 47th anniversary of the Apollo 11
landing on the moon.

Mr. Jain said that low-cost missions to the moon -- under $10 million -- would
transform space exploration. But the company has revealed little about its
customers and much of the hoped-for business like the mining of platinum and
helium-3 is speculative. (The helium-3 would be for fusion power plants that do
not yet exist.)

At present, there is little worry that the moonscape is about to be scarred by a
commercial onslaught. The MX-1 is about the size of a coffee table, and NASA has
left far more litter on the moon, most recently crashing its Lunar Atmosphere
and Dust Environment Explorer into the far side of the moon in 2014.

Of more concern is the preservation of earlier artifacts like the Apollo landing
sites, especially as the Lunar X Prize offers a $4 million bonus for
broadcasting video from one of those sites.

Moon Express said that it had not yet decided on a landing site, but that it
would defer to NASA's wishes and stay away from the Apollo sites.

Mr. Jain said the greatest opportunities were the ones not yet imagined, just as
Apple, when it created the iPhone, did not foresee the explosion of apps that
would run on the device.

''More importantly,'' Mr. Jain said, ''we don't know what the Pokémon Go of the
moon is going to be.''

Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times
newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/04/science/moon-express-faa.html

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An artist's conception of Moon Express's lander on the moon. A
landing would bring $20 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOON EXPRESS, VIA ASSOCIATED
PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 5, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Apple Will Pay Hackers to Report Vulnerabilities

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 534 words


LAS VEGAS -- Apple, which has been criticized in recent years for failing to pay
outside hackers who report bugs in its products, said on Thursday that it would
begin offering a so-called bug bounty to technologists who alert the company to
flaws.

At the Black Hat hacking conference, Apple announced a list of vulnerabilities
that would command big bounties, including $25,000 for ways around Apple's
digital compartments and into its customers' data, $50,000 for bugs that give
hackers a way into iCloud data, and $200,000 to turn over critical
vulnerabilities in Apple's firmware -- the software that lies closest to the
bare metal of the machine.

Apple said that if hackers donated their rewards to charity, it would match
their donation. ''We want to reward the people, and frankly the creativity it
takes to find bugs in these categories,'' said Ivan Krstic, Apple's head of
security engineering and architecture.

For six years, nearly every company in Silicon Valley has been rewarding hackers
who turn over bugs -- a term for flaws that can make a product vulnerable to
intrusion -- in their systems, with cash. The hope is that the money will be an
incentive to keep those flaws out of the hands of organized groups or spy
agencies willing to pay big money to learn about them.

But Apple had stayed away from the practice. Instead, it had credited anyone who
turned over bugs by putting their names on its website -- a far cry from the
tens of thousands of dollars, and in some cases hundreds of thousands of
dollars, companies like Google and Facebook were willing to pay.

The lack of an Apple bug bounty program made headlines earlier this year when
the F.B.I. announced that it had paid hackers more than $1 million for a
backdoor into Apple's iPhone.

The annual Black Hat conference, now in its 19th year, is a gathering place for
all sorts of experts on computer security, including hackers, tech industry
executives and government officials.

Dan Kaminsky, a respected security researcher, said in a keynote speech that the
industry was falling far short of expectations. The onslaught of regular,
high-profile hacks, like the recent penetration of computers run by the
Democratic National Committee, is beginning to make customers believe that
little can be done to protect them.

''We made promises in technology, and people are starting not to believe them''
Mr. Kaminsky told the audience. ''Everybody looks busy but the house still
burns.'' Mr. Kaminsky argued for a cybersecurity equivalent of the National
Institutes of Health or a Manhattan Project to fund research.

Notably, a fund-raiser for Hillary Clinton coincided with this year's
conference. Tickets for the ''Hackers for Hillary'' fund-raiser were going for
anywhere from $100 to $2,700. According to the event organizers, the fund-raiser
focused on ''cyber policy issues the next administration faces.''

Security experts at the conference, echoing earlier reports, maintained that
Russia was behind the hack. A number of organizations cited research suggesting
that the D.N.C. was hacked by two Russian intelligence groups in what they
believed was a campaign aimed at hurting Mrs. Clinton's presidential candidacy.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/05/technology/apple-will-pay-a-bug-bounty-to-hack
ers-who-report-flaws.html

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 11, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Australia Stops a Census Effort After Attacks

BYLINE: By AUSTIN RAMZY.

Follow Austin Ramzy on Twitter @austinramzy .

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 465 words


Australia has halted online collection of national census data after a website
where citizens could upload information was subjected to repeated cyberattacks.

The Australian Bureau of Statistics said its website had experienced four
denial-of-service attacks, in which a torrent of automated requests is sent to
overwhelm a site. The last attack, just after 7:30 p.m. on Tuesday, contributed
to the overloading of a router, which led to the decision that night to close
down online data gathering.

The census, which occurs every five years, has been the subject of intense
criticism and questions this year over whether the introduction of online data
collection could leave Australians' personal information at risk.

Australian officials said on Wednesday that the census system had not been
infiltrated and that no data had been compromised.

Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said he had been given ''unequivocal advice''
from government agencies on the safety of citizens' filings.

''The site has not been hacked. It has not been interfered with,'' he said at a
news conference. ''Their data is safe.''

Australian officials did not describe the source of the attack, but they said it
appeared to have been intended to disrupt the census process.

Alastair MacGibbon, the prime minister's special adviser on cybersecurity, said
it was the sort of assault typically used against government systems. ''A denial
of service is not a breach. It's not designed to take data,'' he said. ''A
denial of service is designed to frustrate.''

Senator Nick Xenophon, an independent, and at least five Greens party senators
had said earlier that they would not put their names on their census filings, to
protest the data gathering and storage methods. Failing to complete census forms
in Australia is punishable by fines, but Mr. Xenophon said he was willing to be
a test case to raise questions about information security.

Mr. Xenophon told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation that ''there are real
concerns'' raised by the census process and the website shutdown.

''The census, the A.B.S., has had five years to get this right,'' he said,
referring to the Australian Bureau of Statistics.

The statistics bureau said it would relaunch the site when ''we know it is
robust and secure'' and when the Australian Signals Directorate, the Defense
Department agency responsible for cybersecurity, said it was safe.

The government also said Australians could submit their census data until Sept.
23. Two million Australians successfully submitted forms before the system was
shut down, the statistics bureau said. People who do not have access to the
website can submit a paper form, the government said.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/11/world/australia/census-cyber-attack.html

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 15, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

End the First-Use Policy for Nuclear Weapons

BYLINE: By JAMES E. CARTWRIGHT and BRUCE G. BLAIR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 931 words


James E. Cartwright, the chairman of the Global Zero Commission on Nuclear Risk
Reduction, is a former vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and former
commander of the United States Strategic Command. Bruce G. Blair is a research
scholar at Princeton, a founder of Global Zero and a former Minuteman launch
officer

Throughout the nuclear age, presidents have allowed their senior commanders to
plan for the first use of nuclear weapons. Contingency plans were drawn to
initiate first strikes to repel an invasion of Europe by the Soviet Union,
defeat China and North Korea, take out chemical and biological weapons and
conduct other missions.

After the end of the Cold War, which coincided with revolutionary advances in
our nonnuclear military capacities, the range of these missions steadily
narrowed to the point where nuclear weapons today no longer serve any purpose
beyond deterring the first use of such weapons by our adversaries. Our
nonnuclear strength, including economic and diplomatic power, our alliances, our
conventional and cyber weaponry and our technological advantages, constitute a
global military juggernaut unmatched in history. The United States simply does
not need nuclear weapons to defend its own and its allies' vital interests, as
long as our adversaries refrain from their use.

Using nuclear weapons first against Russia and China would endanger our and our
allies' very survival by encouraging full-scale retaliation. Any first use
against lesser threats, such as countries or terrorist groups with chemical and
biological weapons, would be gratuitous; there are alternative means of
countering those threats. Such use against North Korea would be likely to result
in the blanketing of Japan and possibly South Korea with deadly radioactive
fallout.

But beyond reducing those dangers, ruling out first use would also bring myriad
benefits. To start, it would reduce the risk of a first strike against us during
global crises. Leaders of other countries would be calmed by the knowledge that
the United States viewed its own weapons as deterrents to nuclear warfare, not
as tools of aggression.

The policy would also reduce costs by gutting the rationale for retaining the
large arsenal of land-based strategic missiles in silos across the Midwest and
the tactical nuclear weapons deployed in Europe. Those missiles are mainly for
first-use; they are a risky option for second-use because they are highly
vulnerable to enemy attack. Eliminating these weapons entirely would be the best
option.

Phasing out land-based missiles and shifting to a reliance on submarines and
bombers would save about $100 billion over the next three decades. The
elimination of smaller, tactical nuclear weapons would save billions more.
President Obama could begin the phaseout of land-based missiles before he left
office by instructing the Department of Defense to remove 550 weapons from the
operationally deployed category and transfer them to long-term storage, thereby
reducing the operationally deployed inventory to about 1,000 strategic warheads.
These missiles are surplus weapons no longer needed for deterrence.

A no-first-use policy would also reduce the risks of accidental or unauthorized
use of nuclear weapons. By scrapping the vulnerable land-based missile force,
any need for launching on warning disappears. Strategic bombers can be sent
aloft on warning of an apparent incoming attack, which may or may not be a false
alarm, and stay up until the situation clarifies. Strategic submarines are
extremely survivable and exert no pressure on decision-makers to fire them
quickly. They can patrol for months waiting for instructions. Both bombers and
submarines are also less vulnerable to cyberwarfare than the strategic missiles
on land.

Finally, no-first-use would help ensure that democratically elected officials
maintained control over nuclear weapons. Savings from reducing the nuclear force
could be invested in fortifying command centers and communications networks,
which would better protect the president and ensure the continuity of government
during a crisis. This would not only fortify deterrence but also reduce the
current possibility of a president's losing control over nuclear operations at
an early stage of conflict.

Beyond those benefits, we believe a no-first-use policy could catalyze
multilateral negotiations to reduce nuclear arms, discourage nonnuclear states
from developing them and reinforce the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty.

Although a no-first-use policy would limit the president's discretion by
imposing procedural and physical constraints on his or her ability to initiate
the use of nuclear weapons, we believe such checks on the commander in chief
would serve the national interest.

President Obama has an opportunity to further delegitimize nuclear weapons by
adopting no-first-use as a core principle of United States security policy on
the grounds that first-use is unnecessary and a threat to national survival and
humanity itself. We could still maintain a robust nuclear umbrella to protect
ourselves and our allies.

China and India adopted this policy long ago, and the American people
overwhelmingly support it, according to a recent survey. In that poll,
two-thirds say the United States should use nuclear weapons only in response to
a nuclear attack or not at all, while just 18 percent think that first-use may
be justified sometimes.

President Obama would be wise to follow China's example. As commander in chief,
he can adopt no-first-use overnight and lead the way in establishing it as a
global norm among all of the nine countries with nuclear weapons. The next
president ought to stay that course. Our nation, our allies and indeed the world
will be better and safer for it.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/15/opinion/end-the-first-use-policy-for-nuclear-w
eapons.html

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDREW HOLDER)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 15, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Internet Fan Bully, Unfiltered and Rising

BYLINE: By AMANDA HESS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1173 words


Normani Kordei, a member of the girl group on the rise Fifth Harmony, sat for a
lighthearted Facebook Live interview earlier this month. Within a week, she had
been chased off Twitter by a mob spewing racist insults.

''I've not just been cyber bullied, I've been racially cyber bullied with tweets
and pictures so horrific and racially charged that I can't subject myself any
longer to the hate,'' she wrote. Her account has been silent since.

Online harassment has become a depressingly common workplace hazard for people
of color in the public eye. Last month, the ''Ghostbusters'' star Leslie Jones
temporarily quit Twitter after weathering a deluge of racist abuse. And last
year, the Brazilian actress Taís Araújo reported a series of harassers to the
police after they had inundated her Facebook page with similar comments.

But the racist taunts hurled at Ms. Kordei didn't originate from some white
supremacist message board, or even from a crew of Fifth Harmony haters. It came
from within the Fifth Harmony fandom itself.

The incident illuminates some strange similarities between the bands of internet
trolls stalking the web and the legions of online fans seeking to stir up some
drama. They both know that the most hurtful weaponry to wield against black
women include images of apes, threats of lynching and a tossed-off N-word.

Fifth Harmony is a Simon Cowell-assembled girl group that snagged its first Top
10 hit this year with the saucy single ''Work From Home.'' Its brand would best
be described as ''gyrating girl power.'' But when Ms. Kordei sat down with the
digital lifestyle magazine Galore for the Facebook Live interview on the subject
of female friendship, one question -- ''Describe each girl in one word'' --
ripped a fault line through the group's young, female fan base.

Of her bandmate Ally Brooke, Ms. Kordei said: ''Sunshine, because she is
literally the light of the group.'' Of Lauren Jauregui: ''My therapist, I can go
to her about absolutely anything, and I feel like I can trust that she won't
judge anything that I say.'' And Dinah Jane: ''She's like the turn-up queen, she
just has a good time anywhere she is.'' When she reached Fifth Harmony's final
member, Camila Cabello, she paused. ''She is ... let's see. Camila. Very quirky.
Yeah, very quirky. Um, cute. Quirky.''

That's it. But that was enough to enrage some fans of Ms. Cabello, the
19-year-old who has been positioned as Fifth Harmony's breakout star (and earned
a spot in Taylor Swift's squad). To this set, Ms. Kordei's answer was apparently
insufficiently effusive. ''Camila is a lot more than cute and quirky she's kind,
classy, mature and hardworking,'' one fan tweeted.

The backlash soon grew big enough to hit the teen gossip sites (''OMG: Did
Normani Kordei Throw Shade at Camila Cabello?'' the magazine J-14 asked), before
curdling into something more sinister. In fan enclaves across the web, a subset
of Fifth Harmony followers called Ms. Kordei ''Normonkey,'' ''coon,'' and
''nigger.'' One said she ''deserves to be lynched.'' Another Photoshopped her
face onto the body of a woman hanging from a tree.

This is the kind of rhetoric you expect to see on 4chan's political message
board, a den of white supremacist rhetoric fused with ironic memes. The trolls
of 4chan have lately helped power the online presence of the alt-right, the
folks who led the Twitter assault against Ms. Jones. Now the internet's most
unruly celebrity fans are cribbing their troublemaking tactics from the same
playbook.

The firestorm against Ms. Jones was touched off by a nasty review of
''Ghostbusters'' published by Milo Yiannopoulos, a conservative provocateur. As
the attacks built, comment threads unspooled inside 4chan, surfacing racist
images and commentary to hurl at Ms. Jones in Twitter's open marketplace. Abuse
against Ms. Kordei was organized, too, by an anonymous Twitter account that
popped up directing fans to inundate her with slurs.

Trolls thrive off provoking a response from their targets. When Ms. Jones began
speaking out against the abuse on Twitter, 4chan posters traded gleeful
messages. Fans, too, delight in forging some connection with the stars, even if
it comes in the form of a rebuke. The abuse against Ms. Kordei escalated after
she took to Twitter to deny a feud with Ms. Cabello and to denounce the fans
attempting to stir up trouble. That behavior eventually scored a response from
Ms. Cabello, too. ''You don't have to hate on somebody else to support me -- I
don't appreciate it and it's not what I'm about,'' she tweeted. ''Be kind or
move on.''

Most Fifth Harmony fans, who call themselves Harmonizers, are not racists. As
the abuse mounted, support for Ms. Kordei poured out under the hashtags
#IStandWithNormani and #WeLoveYouNormani. Still, racially tinged remarks about
Ms. Kordei have been a low-level presence amid her rise in popularity -- fans
have expressed surprise that she reads books and called her ''ugly'' and
''ape''-- and the abuse tends to flare at dramatic moments within the roiling
fan narrative of imagined alliances and feuds (like the supposed ongoing beef
between Ms. Kordei and Ms. Cabello).

A similar dynamic has played out among One Direction fans, some of whom have
greeted Zayn Malik, the group's lone Muslim member, with death threats and slurs
like ''terrorist.'' He briefly quit Twitter in 2012, citing Islamophobia, and
left the band last year. And when Robert Pattinson started dating the singer FKA
Twigs in 2014, a subgroup of his fans inundated her with racist abuse on Twitter
that left her ''genuinely shocked and disgusted.''

Some level of infighting is embedded within pop fandom itself. Like One
Direction before it, Fifth Harmony is a Cowell-engineered pop group that's been
perfectly primed to exploit differences in personality, style and ethnic
background of the group's singers. The Spice Girls played this trick most
baldly, naming and dressing members after a singular trait -- Baby, Scary,
Sporty, Posh and Ginger. But supporting a favorite bandmate can easily degrade
into trashing a least favorite. In a New York Post article from 1998, one
9-year-old Spice Girls fan said of Ginger (Geri Halliwell): ''A lot of people
don't like her. I think some people hate her the most out of all of them.'' She
added: ''I personally don't like Scary Spice, though.''

Typically, girl group loyalism falls into the benign end of human self-sorting.
But in the crucible of online fandom, demographic distinctions can coarsen into
warring factions. A fan fantasy that frames the band members as hating one
another -- and paints one of them as rude, stupid, evil, and deserving of death
because she is black -- is no longer just idle fan fictions. As Ms. Kordei put
it in one of her notes to fans, ''For those of you who enjoy speculating
creating drama that doesn't exist, please keep in mind that myself and the other
girls in the group are PEOPLE.''

She added: ''This is our story so let us write it our way, instead of you trying
to write it for us.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/15/arts/music/the-rise-of-the-internet-fan-bully.
html

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Normani Kordei of the group Fifth Harmony, top, the actress
Leslie Jones, right, and the singer Zayn Malik, left, have all been harassed on
Twitter by fans spewing insults. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAURICIO SANTANA/GETTY IMAGES
FRAZER HARRISON/GETTY IMAGES
 DIMITRIOS KAMBOURIS/GETTY IMAGES) (C4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 21, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cyber-Flophouses

BYLINE: By NIKO KOPPEL and JEFFREY E. SINGER

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 265 words


At the beginning of the millennium, the internet cafe was a beacon of the
future. But now, amid a lack of affordable housing and a surge in homelessness
in New York City, these vestiges of the dot-com boom have become an unlikely
safety net, where people pay as little as $7 a night for a roof over their
heads. On any given evening in the few remaining 24-hour cybercafes in
Manhattan's Chinatown, chairs are filled with the exhausted bodies of those who
have lived there for weeks or months -- or by some accounts, even years.

''It's like prison,'' said Harry Jumonji, describing the tense environment of
Freedom Zone on Eldridge Street, where he had been staying with his girlfriend
for months. ''You got to be high to sleep.''

During the day, the businesses are mostly used by groups of young Chinese
gamers. But at night, men and women settle into their spots, their claims staked
by shopping bags of clothes, pillows and blankets. Images as varied as a
Scrabble game and pornography flash on monitors. People often rise every few
hours to take a break from restless sleep, stretching their legs by going to the
front counter to buy a snack or stepping outside for fresh air.

Tony Lin, bleary-eyed and wearing a T-shirt with an American flag, stood in the
hallway on a recent night outside the sapphire glow of a cafe, which is in a
building between a karaoke lounge and a day care center. Mr. Lin said he had
been staying there since losing his job as a restaurant worker four years ago.
''I feel so dizzy, I'm so tired,'' he said. ''I have no hope.'' Niko Koppel and
Jeffrey E. Singer




URL:

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left: Outside the Green Forest Internet Cafe
on Eldridge Street in Chinatown
a woman dozing at an internet cafe that has now closed
pieces of luggage chained together at Green Forest
a regular returning to the Freedom Zone Internet Cafe after a break outside
a patron playing a video game and another trying to sleep at Freedom Zone around
3 a.m.
gamers and sleepers at the New Space Internet Cafe
 and sleeping in a chair at the New Space. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NIKO KOPPEL)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        August 29, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Once a Qaeda Recruiter, Now a Voice Against Jihad

BYLINE: RUKMINI CALLIMACHI

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 2053 words



HIGHLIGHT: In a new effort to counter the lure of terrorism, a former American
jihadist is moving into the public sphere to research the ideology he once
spread.


Correction Appended

WASHINGTON -- In the four years that he ran the Revolution Muslim website out of
his walk-up apartment in Flatbush, Brooklyn, Jesse Morton became one of the most
prolific recruiters for Al Qaeda, luring numerous Americans to the group's
violent ideology.

The men and women he inspired through his online posts and tutorials were
accused of plots that included flying a remote-controlled plane strapped with
explosives into the Pentagon and trying to kill a Swedish cartoonist who
satirized the Prophet Muhammad. One of hiscollaborators was killed in a drone
strike in Yemen, where he had joined Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. Several
are now fighting for the Islamic State.

"We were looking for the lions," he said, explaining how he would often recruit
right outside mosques, "and left them the lambs."

Mr. Morton, 37, is now at the forefront of an experiment to counter the pull of
groups like the Islamic State and Al Qaeda. After a stint as an F.B.I. informant
and his release from prison last year, Mr. Morton has been hired as a fellow at
George Washington University's Program on Extremism, where he will research the
very ideology he once spread.

Although countries like Britain have for years been putting former extremists to
work in think tanks to provide authentic voices against radical ideology, Mr.
Morton is the first former jihadist to step into this public a role in the
United States.

That has not come without some anxiety for his new employer, said Lorenzo
Vidino, the director of the extremism program at George Washington's Center for
Cyber and Homeland Security. Dr. Vidino met with Mr. Morton after his release in
February 2015, beginning a yearlong vetting process that involved interviewing
seven law enforcement officials directly involved in his case.

"There was not a single dissenting voice," Dr. Vidino said.

In an interview with The New York Times this month, after he was asked why
anyone should believe he had truly changed, Mr. Morton insisted that he was
trying to make amends.

"As many people as may have traveled, or may have committed criminal acts,
because of my words, I hope that I can deter just as many," he said. "I may
never be able to repair the damage that I have done, but I think I can at least
try."

Finding a Cause

Asked when he had first turned toward extremism, Mr. Morton put out his hand and
held it a foot off the floor: "When I was about this high."

Mr. Morton, who was born in Pennsylvania, said that his early memories are of
suffering abuse from his mother, and that she beat, scratched and bit her
children for years.

When he couldn't take it anymore, he confided in a guidance counselor. The
school called in his mother, who he said denied abusing him and then took him
home and beat him.

"It was not just my dysfunctional family that I couldn't trust, it was society
at large," he said. "That's where the whole us-versus-them personality comes in,
with the perception that society -- American society -- is not protecting me."

At 16, he ran away and followed a Grateful Dead tour, subsisting by selling
drugs outside concerts.

His first brush with Islam came in 1999, when he and another pusher ran into an
abandoned building to evade the police, he said.

As the officers were closing in, his partner instructed him to repeat a string
of Arabic words. Only later did he realize he had recited the declaration of
Muslim faith. When the police turned back, Mr. Morton, then 21, took it as a
sign and converted.

Not long after, he was arrested, charged with selling narcotics and booked in a
prison in Richmond, Va. An older Moroccan Muslim who shared the 40-man cell with
Mr. Morton befriended him, and became his first imam.

He gave Mr. Morton a Muslim name: Younus, after a prophet who was swallowed by a
whale and from inside its stomach called others to Islam. "You are in the belly
of the beast right now," the man told him.

It was us versus them, and it appealed to Mr. Morton, especially when his
teacher began sharing the prophecies of the destruction that was going to befall
the United States.

He quoted scripture predicting that an Islamic state would be established when
the black flag was raised over Afghanistan.

"This is perfect for me, because now the world is black and white," Mr. Morton
said. "And I am immediately motivated to contribute to this cause. I get out,
and I completely transform my life."

In 2006, he graduated as valedictorian from Metropolitan College of New York.
The next year, he enrolled at Columbia University, where he received a master's
degree in international studies.

Off campus, he gravitated to groups sporting the black flag, first through the
Islamic Thinkers Society, an offshoot of the British group run by Anjem
Choudary, who was convicted this month of using online lectures to incite
support for the Islamic State. Soon Mr. Morton was introduced to the jailed
Jamaican extremist Abdullah al-Faisal, the mentor of one of the 2005 London
bombers, and began writing to him.

Together, with the help of another convert in New York, the three decided to
start Revolution Muslim, which went live during Mr. Morton's Christmas break in
2007.

The website courted controversy, and was used to bring in those who were
flirting with extremism. On Fridays, Mr. Morton stood outside mosques in New
York, giving speeches criticizing the "soft Islam" preached inside. Videos of
the confrontations would be featured on the site next to audio recordings from
Osama bin Laden. The site branched out with a YouTube channel.

"Revolution Muslim was a bug light, which attracted aspiring jihadists with
their message," said Mitch Silber, the former director of intelligence analysis
for the New York Police Department, whose team invested heavily in tracking Mr.
Morton's online activities.

Turning the Recruits

The website brought in a ready pool of recruits. "Once you see that they are
logging in consistently, you don't really need to take them all the way," Mr.
Morton said.

"What you have to do is frame their personal grievance," he added, "making them
think that they can contribute to a broader cause. And you do that through the
ideology, because believe it or not, Islam can be framed in a way that is
incredibly revolutionary."

Mr. Morton said that instilling an unbendingly literal brand of Islam was
critical. The first concept is that God is the sole lawgiver. "Then you use that
principle to say that all the Muslim rulers, because they don't implement
Shariah law in its entirety, they are not Muslim at all, so we can rebel against
them."

Next, he taught recruits that their allegiance needed to be solely to fellow
Muslims, seeking to cut them off from friends and family.

Once those principles were embedded, Mr. Morton said, "you could essentially do
anything you wanted with them."

Revolution Muslim became a relay station for Al Qaeda's broader message. In its
orbit, you could find many of the American citizens who either attempted to join
the group or else plotted murder in its name.

One follower of the group's YouTube channel was the Pennsylvanian convert
Colleen LaRose, known online as "Jihad Jane." She was charged in 2010 with
plotting to murder a Swedish cartoonist, prompting Al Qaeda's leading
propagandist, Anwar al-Awlaki, to declare that "jihad is becoming as American as
apple pie."

A recruit from Massachusetts was accused of planning to blow up a shopping
mall.Bryant Vinas, a Long Island convert who had interacted with Mr. Morton,
went as far as traveling to the Waziristan region of Pakistan, where he began
preparing an attack on the Long Island Rail Road before he was arrested.

All the while, Mr. Morton was calibrating how far he could go, and his associate
consulted a lawyer to study the outer limits of free speech.

"And we would walk right up to the line," he said.

The line was finally crossed on April 15, 2010, when Zachary Adam Chesser, a
volatile, 20-year-old associate of Mr. Morton's, uploaded the home addresses of
the creators of the cartoon show "South Park" after an episode mocking the
Prophet Muhammad.

When Mr. Chesser was arrested while trying to board an international flight on
his way to join the Shababmilitant group in Somalia, Mr. Morton fled to Morocco.
A year later, he, too, was arrested, and initially held in a Moroccan prison.

The Americans came for him on Oct. 27, 2011. He recounted being driven to a
deserted airport, where he clutched his Quran as a team of United States agents
handcuffed, shackled and blindfolded him. Before placing earphones over his
ears, they took away his Quran.

He was surprised when one of the agents removed the blindfold midflight and
handed him back the holy book. It was the first of several gestures that he said
would touch him, a step along what he described as a long, gradual path out of
radicalization.

Back in the United States, he awaited sentencing in solitary confinement, where
a guard broke the rules and allowed him to leave his cell and spend the duration
of her shift in the library.

He said the first book he had grabbed was Volume 35 of the Encyclopaedia
Britannica's Great Books of the Western World. Over the coming weeks, he lost
himself in the writings of the Enlightenment, starting with John Locke's 1689
"Letter Concerning Toleration." The philosopher argued that faith could not be
bought through violence, prompting Mr. Morton to reflect on how his captors had
handed him back his Quran.

At night, he said, he would dream he was sitting across from Bin Laden.

"I'm asking him questions: 'Am I becoming a disbeliever? Am I going to hell?'"
Mr. Morton said. "He doesn't talk. He has nothing to say."

Shifting Sides

It was in the prison library that a guard pulled Mr. Morton aside and led him
into a room where two F.B.I. agents were waiting.

They had logged into his former email account and tracked his former recruits,
several of whom had joined the Islamic State. Now they wanted him to become an
informant. Wrestling with the idea, and increasingly disillusioned with
fundamentalism, he eventually agreed.

On a hot summer day two years ago, soon after the Islamic State had declared its
caliphate, Mr. Morton received a letter from Syria. It was from one of his
former students, who enthusiastically described how he had spent the morning
swimming in the Tigris, just after the Islamic State had routed the Iraqi
military in Mosul and hung the decapitated heads of enemies from a fence.

Instead of sharing his recruit's excitement, Mr. Morton threw up inside his
cell.

"This is a person who was my student, literally called me with every single
question he had, and I said, 'Go to Syria,' " he recalled. "It's like
Frankenstein. I didn't create it, but I certainly contributed to it."

Mr. Morton continued working undercover until he was outed as an informant by
The Washington Post. By then, the judge had reduced his 11-year sentence to
three years and nine months. He walked out on Feb. 27, 2015.

He now lives in Virginia, and the terms of his release prevent him from
traveling outside the greater District of Columbia area. On Monday, when classes
resume at George Washington University, Mr. Morton will be there, too, in his
role as a researcher.

Still, he said, at night he is gripped by fear.

The extremists he turned his back on could try to harm him -- the Islamic State
considers spying a form of apostasy, punishable by death. Mostly, though, he
worries about the ideas he unleashed on the world.

"I'm scared -- not because I think I'll go back, but because of what's coming,"
he said. "I was so committed to destroying the world that I lived in, and now,
for rational reasons, I realize that international order needs to be protected."

Follow Rukmini Callimachi on Twitter @rcallimachi.


Correction: August 31, 2016, Wednesday

A picture caption on Tuesday with the continuation of an article about a former
recruiter for Al Qaeda who is now at George Washington University misstated his
surname. As the article correctly noted, he is Jesse Morton, not Martin.

PHOTOS: Jesse Morton, 37, once ran the Revolution Muslim website. (A1); Jesse
Martin, a fellow at George Washington's Program on Extremism, on the roof of
Gelman Library there. He is researching the ideology he once spread.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY AL DRAGO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)

Related Articles


     ·    ISIS and the Lonely Young American
     ·    The Franchising of Al Qaeda


LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 30, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Onetime Qaeda Recruiter Turns His Voice Against Jihad

BYLINE: By RUKMINI CALLIMACHI.

Follow Rukmini Callimachi on Twitter @rcallimachi .

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1967 words


WASHINGTON -- In the four years that he ran the Revolution Muslim website out of
his walk-up apartment in Flatbush, Brooklyn, Jesse Morton became one of the most
prolific recruiters for Al Qaeda, luring numerous Americans to the group's
violent ideology.

The men and women he inspired through his online posts and tutorials were
accused of plots that included flying a remote-controlled plane strapped with
explosives into the Pentagon and trying to kill a Swedish cartoonist who
satirized the Prophet Muhammad. One of his collaborators was killed in a drone
strike in Yemen, where he had joined Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. Several
are now fighting for the Islamic State.

''We were looking for the lions,'' he said, explaining how he would often
recruit right outside mosques, ''and left them the lambs.''

Mr. Morton, 37, is now at the forefront of an experiment to counter the pull of
groups like the Islamic State and Al Qaeda. After a stint as an F.B.I. informant
and his release from prison last year, Mr. Morton has been hired as a fellow at
George Washington University's Program on Extremism, where he will research the
very ideology he once spread.

Although countries like Britain have for years been putting former extremists to
work in think tanks to provide authentic voices against radical ideology, Mr.
Morton is the first former jihadist to step into this public a role in the
United States.

That has not come without some anxiety for his new employer, said Lorenzo
Vidino, the director of the extremism program at George Washington's Center for
Cyber and Homeland Security. Dr. Vidino met with Mr. Morton after his release in
February 2015, beginning a yearlong vetting process that involved interviewing
seven law enforcement officials directly involved in his case.

''There was not a single dissenting voice,'' Dr. Vidino said.

In an interview with The New York Times this month, after he was asked why
anyone should believe he had truly changed, Mr. Morton insisted that he was
trying to make amends.

''As many people as may have traveled, or may have committed criminal acts,
because of my words, I hope that I can deter just as many,'' he said. ''I may
never be able to repair the damage that I have done, but I think I can at least
try.''

Finding a Cause

Asked when he had first turned toward extremism, Mr. Morton put out his hand and
held it a foot off the floor: ''When I was about this high.''

Mr. Morton, who was born in Pennsylvania, said that his early memories are of
suffering abuse from his mother, and that she beat, scratched and bit her
children for years.

When he couldn't take it anymore, he confided in a guidance counselor. The
school called in his mother, who he said denied abusing him and then took him
home and beat him.

''It was not just my dysfunctional family that I couldn't trust, it was society
at large,'' he said. ''That's where the whole us-versus-them personality comes
in, with the perception that society -- American society -- is not protecting
me.''

At 16, he ran away and followed a Grateful Dead tour, subsisting by selling
drugs outside concerts.

His first brush with Islam came in 1999, when he and another pusher ran into an
abandoned building to evade the police, he said.

As the officers were closing in, his partner instructed him to repeat a string
of Arabic words. Only later did he realize he had recited the declaration of
Muslim faith. When the police turned back, Mr. Morton, then 21, took it as a
sign and converted.

Not long after, he was arrested, charged with selling narcotics and booked in a
prison in Richmond, Va. An older Moroccan Muslim who shared the 40-man cell with
Mr. Morton befriended him, and became his first imam.

He gave Mr. Morton a Muslim name: Younus, after a prophet who was swallowed by a
whale and from inside its stomach called others to Islam. ''You are in the belly
of the beast right now,'' the man told him.

It was us versus them, and it appealed to Mr. Morton, especially when his
teacher began sharing the prophecies of the destruction that was going to befall
the United States.

He quoted scripture predicting that an Islamic state would be established when
the black flag was raised over Afghanistan.

''This is perfect for me, because now the world is black and white,'' Mr. Morton
said. ''And I am immediately motivated to contribute to this cause. I get out,
and I completely transform my life.''

In 2006, he graduated as valedictorian from Metropolitan College of New York.
The next year, he enrolled at Columbia University, where he received a master's
degree in international studies.

Off campus, he gravitated to groups sporting the black flag, first through the
Islamic Thinkers Society, an offshoot of the British group run by Anjem
Choudary, who was convicted this month of using online lectures to incite
support for the Islamic State. Soon Mr. Morton was introduced to the jailed
Jamaican extremist Abdullah al-Faisal, the mentor of one of the 2005 London
bombers, and began writing to him.

Together, with the help of another convert in New York, the three decided to
start Revolution Muslim, which went live during Mr. Morton's Christmas break in
2007.

The website courted controversy, and was used to bring in those who were
flirting with extremism. On Fridays, Mr. Morton stood outside mosques in New
York, giving speeches criticizing the ''soft Islam'' preached inside. Videos of
the confrontations would be featured on the site next to audio recordings from
Osama bin Laden. The site branched out with a YouTube channel.

''Revolution Muslim was a bug light, which attracted aspiring jihadists with
their message,'' said Mitch Silber, the former director of intelligence analysis
for the New York Police Department, whose team invested heavily in tracking Mr.
Morton's online activities.

Turning the Recruits

The website brought in a ready pool of recruits. ''Once you see that they are
logging in consistently, you don't really need to take them all the way,'' Mr.
Morton said.

''What you have to do is frame their personal grievance,'' he added, ''making
them think that they can contribute to a broader cause. And you do that through
the ideology, because believe it or not, Islam can be framed in a way that is
incredibly revolutionary.''

Mr. Morton said that instilling an unbendingly literal brand of Islam was
critical. The first concept is that God is the sole lawgiver. ''Then you use
that principle to say that all the Muslim rulers, because they don't implement
Shariah law in its entirety, they are not Muslim at all, so we can rebel against
them.''

Next, he taught recruits that their allegiance needed to be solely to fellow
Muslims, seeking to cut them off from friends and family.

Once those principles were embedded, Mr. Morton said, ''you could essentially do
anything you wanted with them.''

Revolution Muslim became a relay station for Al Qaeda's broader message. In its
orbit, you could find many of the American citizens who either attempted to join
the group or else plotted murder in its name.

One follower of the group's YouTube channel was the Pennsylvanian convert
Colleen LaRose, known online as ''Jihad Jane.'' She was charged in 2010 with
plotting to murder a Swedish cartoonist, prompting Al Qaeda's leading
propagandist, Anwar al-Awlaki, to declare that ''jihad is becoming as American
as apple pie.''

A recruit from Massachusetts was accused of planning to blow up a shopping mall.
Bryant Vinas, a Long Island convert who had interacted with Mr. Morton, went as
far as traveling to the Waziristan region of Pakistan, where he began preparing
an attack on the Long Island Rail Road before he was arrested.

All the while, Mr. Morton was calibrating how far he could go, and his associate
consulted a lawyer to study the outer limits of free speech.

''And we would walk right up to the line,'' he said.

The line was finally crossed on April 15, 2010, when Zachary Adam Chesser, a
volatile, 20-year-old associate of Mr. Morton's, uploaded the home addresses of
the creators of the cartoon show ''South Park'' after an episode mocking the
Prophet Muhammad.

When Mr. Chesser was arrested while trying to board an international flight on
his way to join the Shabab militant group in Somalia, Mr. Morton fled to
Morocco. A year later, he, too, was arrested, and initially held in a Moroccan
prison.

The Americans came for him on Oct. 27, 2011. He recounted being driven to a
deserted airport, where he clutched his Quran as a team of United States agents
handcuffed, shackled and blindfolded him. Before placing earphones over his
ears, they took away his Quran.

He was surprised when one of the agents removed the blindfold midflight and
handed him back the holy book. It was the first of several gestures that he said
would touch him, a step along what he described as a long, gradual path out of
radicalization.

Back in the United States, he awaited sentencing in solitary confinement, where
a guard broke the rules and allowed him to leave his cell and spend the duration
of her shift in the library.

He said the first book he had grabbed was Volume 35 of the Encyclopaedia
Britannica's Great Books of the Western World. Over the coming weeks, he lost
himself in the writings of the Enlightenment, starting with John Locke's 1689
''Letter Concerning Toleration.'' The philosopher argued that faith could not be
bought through violence, prompting Mr. Morton to reflect on how his captors had
handed him back his Quran.

At night, he said, he would dream he was sitting across from Bin Laden.

''I'm asking him questions: 'Am I becoming a disbeliever? Am I going to hell?'''
Mr. Morton said. ''He doesn't talk. He has nothing to say.''

Shifting Sides

It was in the prison library that a guard pulled Mr. Morton aside and led him
into a room where two F.B.I. agents were waiting.

They had logged into his former email account and tracked his former recruits,
several of whom had joined the Islamic State. Now they wanted him to become an
informant. Wrestling with the idea, and increasingly disillusioned with
fundamentalism, he eventually agreed.

On a hot summer day two years ago, soon after the Islamic State had declared its
caliphate, Mr. Morton received a letter from Syria. It was from one of his
former students, who enthusiastically described how he had spent the morning
swimming in the Tigris, just after the Islamic State had routed the Iraqi
military in Mosul and hung the decapitated heads of enemies from a fence.

Instead of sharing his recruit's excitement, Mr. Morton threw up inside his
cell.

''This is a person who was my student, literally called me with every single
question he had, and I said, 'Go to Syria,' '' he recalled. ''It's like
Frankenstein. I didn't create it, but I certainly contributed to it.''

Mr. Morton continued working undercover until he was outed as an informant by
The Washington Post. By then, the judge had reduced his 11-year sentence to
three years and nine months. He walked out on Feb. 27, 2015.

He now lives in Virginia, and the terms of his release prevent him from
traveling outside the greater District of Columbia area. On Monday, when classes
resume at George Washington University, Mr. Morton will be there, too, in his
role as a researcher.

Still, he said, at night he is gripped by fear.

The extremists he turned his back on could try to harm him -- the Islamic State
considers spying a form of apostasy, punishable by death. Mostly, though, he
worries about the ideas he unleashed on the world.

''I'm scared -- not because I think I'll go back, but because of what's
coming,'' he said. ''I was so committed to destroying the world that I lived in,
and now, for rational reasons, I realize that international order needs to be
protected.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/30/us/al-qaeda-islamic-state-jihad-fbi.html

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jesse Morton, 37, once ran the Revolution Muslim website. (A1)
 Jesse Martin, a fellow at George Washington's Program on Extremism, on the roof
of Gelman Library there. He is researching the ideology he once spread.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY AL DRAGO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 1, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Drone Strike Has ISIS Turning to 'Deep Bench'

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT, RUKMINI CALLIMACHI and ANNE BARNARD; Eric Schmitt
reported from Washington, Rukmini Callimachi from Rome, and Anne Barnard from
Beirut, Lebanon. Ivan Nechepurenko contributed reporting from Moscow.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1254 words


WASHINGTON -- The reported death of the Islamic State's senior propagandist and
strategist, Abu Muhammad al-Adnani, in an American drone strike in northern
Syria on Tuesday casts in sharp relief the immediate challenge the terrorist
group faces in replacing one of its pivotal founding members.

The attack, carried out by a military Reaper drone, also underscores the
progress the military's most elite Special Operations commandos and the Central
Intelligence Agency have made in the conflict's two years by using information
from spies on the ground and sensors in the sky to target a growing number of
Islamic State leaders.

The American-led coalition has killed about 120 important Islamic State
officials and operators, including about a dozen of the group's top leaders,
according to the Pentagon.

Still, the Islamic State has proved to be remarkably resilient, American
officials and counterterrorism specialists say, noting that the group, also
known as ISIS or ISIL, has succession plans to replace even its top leader, Abu
Bakr al-Baghdadi, should he be killed.

''There's a deep bench,'' said William McCants of the Brookings Institution, the
author of ''The ISIS Apocalypse.''

In the coming days, Mr. Baghdadi is likely to meet with his shura, or council of
advisers, in Raqqa, the group's self-proclaimed capital in Syria, to pick a
replacement for Mr. Adnani, a 39-year-old Syrian, who had been believed to be
Mr. Baghdadi's heir apparent.

Among the candidates to replace Mr. Adnani is Turki al-Binali, 31, one of the
most senior clerics of the Islamic State, who is believed to have been appointed
the group's chief mufti.

A native of Bahrain, Mr. Binali is considered a prodigy who studied under some
of the top leaders in the jihadi pantheon, including Abu Muhammad al-Maqdisi,
who is regarded as one of the most influential Al Qaeda ideologues.

''Even more important than that is that he is an extremely talented speaker,
orator -- kind of like Adnani,'' said Cole Bunzel, a doctoral candidate at
Princeton who who wrote a Brookings Institution paper on the ideology of the
Islamic State.

As early as 2013, Mr. Binali is believed to have traveled to join ISIS in Syria,
where he began producing some of the group's most influential theological
treatises which laid the foundation for the group's future actions.

On April 30, 2014, he published an essay arguing that one does not need to have
full territorial control before declaring an Islamic caliphate.

The concept of territorial control was believed by many to be a prerequisite for
a caliphate, said Mr. Bunzel, and Mr. Binali's essay served to clear the way for
the declaration of the caliphate months later in the summer of 2014.

Mr. Bunzel said he suspected that it was Mr. Binali who headed the Islamic
State's Research and Fatwa Department, which issued pamphlets explaining the
legality of raping enslaved Yazidi women.

United States intelligence officials said Mr. Binali may have also traveled
recently to Libya to help ISIS bolster its franchise there, an affiliate group
that in recent weeks has been driven out of its stronghold in Surt.

Laith Alkhouri, a director at Flashpoint, a business risk intelligence company
in New York that tracks militant and cyber threats, said that while Mr. Binali
is certainly a contender for a greater leadership role, he may have been
marginalized in recent months.

If so, Mr. Alkhouri said, another candidate could be Abu Luqman, also known as
Ali Mousa Al-Shawwakh, who was the first wali, or ruler, in Raqqa and led much
of the ISIS strategy in Aleppo in 2015.

Mr. Alkhouri said Mr. Luqman fits the characteristics of someone ISIS would
trust as spokesman. He was imprisoned by the Syrian government before the
revolution, holds a law degree and worked as a recruiter for the forerunner of
ISIS during the United States occupation of Iraq.

Mr. Luqman has been reported killed several times: once in an airstrike, another
time by being stabbed by a Libyan fighter who was displeased by Mr. Luqman's
treatment of foreign fighters. His death has never been officially confirmed.

The person who takes Mr. Adnani's place will undoubtedly work closely with Mr.
Baghdadi, the organization's shadowy leader.

Mr. Baghdadi meets periodically with regional emirs at his headquarters in
Raqqa.

To ensure his safety, special drivers pick up each of the emirs and take their
cellphones and any other electronics to avoid inadvertently disclosing their
location through tracking by American intelligence, United States officials
said.

The high stakes at play in the apparent death of Mr. Adnani were revealed on
Wednesday when the Russian military said that its warplanes had carried out a
strike in Syria that killed up to 40 Islamic State fighters, including Mr.
Adnani.

The Russian announcement appeared to be a direct challenge to the Pentagon,
which claimed a day earlier that one of its drone strikes had killed the senior
figure.

Pentagon officials dismissed Russia's claim, but have not confirmed the reports
by ISIS's official news agency that Mr. Adnani was killed.

Russia has faced criticism from the West that its military intervention in Syria
was undertaken to prop up President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, rather than to
fulfill the Kremlin's stated goal of fighting terrorism.

This is the first public announcement from Russia that it had killed a specific
senior figure in the terrorist group.

For more than two years, Mr. Adnani had a $5 million bounty on his head, offered
by the United States, and he was on the kill list for the American-led air
campaign in Iraq and Syria.

It is unclear how the United States identified and tracked Mr. Adnani, but his
death, if confirmed, would highlight the ability of American agencies to collect
and coordinate information gathered from raids on ISIS safe houses.

Such raids produce intelligence from cellphones and computer hard drives and
other information that is combined with an increasingly effective network of
spies and informants to put pressure on ISIS leaders.

That pressure may have been why Mr. Adnani was in the region of northern Syria
where his vehicle was struck by Hellfire missiles on Tuesday night.

Al Bab, where Mr. Adnani's vehicle was hit, has become one of several hubs for
ISIS operatives in recent years, in part because it is the largest population
center near the Turkish border that the group still controls, a place where ISIS
figures can try to disappear among what's left of an urban population.

Al Bab has been devastated over the years, its civilian population caught
between the brutal rule of the Islamic State and indiscriminate barrel bombings
and airstrikes by the Syrian government.

It is the biggest ISIS stronghold in Aleppo Province, a territory that is
increasingly embattled.

The area that ISIS holds along the Turkish border, separating two Kurdish
enclaves, is under pressure from several directions.

A new Turkish incursion, with artillery, tanks and air power backing a ground
force of American- and Turkish-backed Syrian rebels, has increased the fighting
as it seizes new territory from ISIS and as the new force clashes with
Kurdish-led militias also fighting ISIS.

ISIS established itself early on in northern Aleppo Province, but was driven out
of many towns and villages in early 2014 by rival insurgent groups, including
United States-backed rebels.

The group was pushed to the east, leaving ISIS in control only of a strip of
northeastern Aleppo Province anchored by Al Bab.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/01/world/middleeast/syria-isis-adnani.html

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Abu Muhammad al-Adnani, a senior Islamic State leader, was
reported killed in Syria on Tuesday by the group's media. (PHOTOGRAPH VIA
ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       September 5, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

'Gaps of Trust' With Russia Bar a Syrian Truce, Obama Says

BYLINE: MARK LANDLER

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 1303 words



HIGHLIGHT: After a meeting with Russia's president at the Group of 20 summit
meeting failed, President Obama said he had told Secretary of State John Kerry
to continue negotiating.


VIENTIANE, Laos -- The Obama administration's latest effort to broker a
cease-fire in Syria's civil war fell short on Monday, after a 90-minute meeting
between President Obama and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia failed to
resolve problems between them.

"Given the gaps of trust that exist, that's a tough negotiation, and we haven't
yet closed the gaps in a way where we think it would actually work," Mr. Obama
declared at a news conference at the end of a Group of 20 summit meeting in
Hangzhou, China.

He did not describe the points of contention. Other officials have said they
involve technical issues like how to staff checkpoints in combat areas. But the
checkered history of Syrian cease-fires -- the United States agreed to one with
Russia in February, only to watch it unravel weeks later -- has left the
president deeply leery.

On a day of diplomacy and history, Mr. Obama later flew to Laos, becoming the
first sitting American president to visit this country, where children still
stumble over unexploded bombs dropped by the United States during the Vietnam
War. Having failed to halt the guns in Syria, Mr. Obama will seek reconciliation
with the victims of a war long over.

He insisted he was not giving up on Syria, however. Mr. Obama said he had
instructed Secretary of State John Kerry to continue negotiating with the
Russians this week to see if a deal on Syria was possible.

The goals would be to halt the rain of bombs on Aleppo and to give breathing
space to a United Nations-led effort to find a political end to Syria's war
between the forces of President Bashar al-Assad, which are backed by Russia, and
an array of insurgents seeking to depose him.

"The faster we can offer some relief to folks on ground," Mr. Obama said, "the
better off we're going to be."

At his own news conference in Hangzhou, Mr. Putin said the Syria talks were on
the "right track," though he declined to discuss details of a deal. He expressed
hope that an agreement could be reached "in the next few days," despite earlier
disagreements.

"Then we can say that our joint work with the United States in the fight against
terrorist organizations, including along the Syrian track, will be significantly
improved and intensified," Mr. Putin said.

Mr. Obama's appearance was his last at the Group of 20, a gathering of
industrialized nations that is supposed to focus on economic issues but often
finds those matters eclipsed by war and terrorism. He reminisced about his first
meeting, in 2009, when the world was still reeling from the financial crisis.
This time, the meeting dramatized both his lame-duck status and the changed
world that his successor will inherit.

On Sunday, during a photograph session with the other leaders, Mr. Putin and
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey huddled with each other. A curious Mr.
Obama peered at them from the other side of the room. Tensions between Russia
and Turkey have escalated over Syria, but the two countries' leaders have begun
talking more in recent weeks, just as Turkey's ties with the United States have
frayed.

Mr. Obama had a rough welcome in Hangzhou on Saturday, when a dispute over the
stairs he would use to exit Air Force One left him disembarking from a door in
the belly of the plane. Some China experts interpreted it as a snub of a
departing leader by a rising power.

On his departure, however, the Chinese arranged for a shiny set of stairs with a
strip of blue lights beneath the railing to be rolled up to the plane.

Mr. Obama remains a central figure in conversations on a variety of issues,
including Iran and international economics. But there was a palpable sense on
his Asia trip that the world was awaiting a new president to reassess American
policies in Syria, Ukraine and North Korea.

On Syria, Mr. Obama left the diplomatic heavy lifting to Mr. Kerry, who met
twice in Hangzhou with the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov. On
Sunday, the Americans were confident enough of success that they scheduled a
briefing to announce a cease-fire agreement, erecting two lecterns for the
secretary of state and foreign minister.

Soon afterward, State Department officials hastily removed one, and Mr. Kerry
turned up alone to report that the United States and Russia had been unable to
move past a handful of "tough issues." The talks continued, though, with the
Russians appearing more eager than the Americans to elevate them to the
presidential level.

Mr. Obama has been openly skeptical of the likelihood of a durable deal
involving the Russians. After the meeting with Mr. Putin, it was clear his
suspicions had not been dispelled. He recalled the failure of the previous deal
that the United States had made with Russia.

"Slowly, it unwound, and we're back into a situation in which Assad's regime is
bombing with impunity," he said. "That is a very dangerous dynamic."

As he often does, Mr. Obama characterized his exchange with Mr. Putin as blunt
and businesslike. There was no shortage of thorny subjects. The president said
they had discussed computer security, though he declined to say whether he had
brought up allegations that Russia breached the computer systems of the
Democratic National Committee.

"We've had trouble with cyber intrusions from Russia in the past," he said.
"We're moving into a new era."

Mr. Obama is also hoping to turn the page in Laos. The ostensible reason for the
visit is two regional conferences that will give him a chance to promote his
strategy of pivoting to Asia: the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the
East Asia Summit.

But Laos has other resonance for Mr. Obama, who has made a vocation, from Cuba
to Myanmar, of opening ties to closed societies. The United States and Laos have
a difficult relationship that dates to the C.I.A.'s undeclared war in the 1960s
and '70s, when American warplanes dropped 270 million bombs on this country,
many of which are still buried in fields and forests.

Mr. Obama, administration officials said, would pledge millions of dollars in
additional funding to help clear unexploded ordnance from the Laotian
countryside.

"Since Laos is still a relatively poor country that is developing, their
capacity alone to clean that up is hampered by lack of resources," he said. "We
should help."

First, though, the president canceled a meeting scheduled for Tuesday with the
leader of the Philippines, an American ally in Southeast Asia. Earlier in the
day, the new Philippine president, Rodrigo Duterte, delivered a profanity-laced
diatribe against Mr. Obama, calling him, among other things, a "son of a bitch."

Mr. Duterte threatened to do so again face to face if the president challenged
his inflammatory words or his unorthodox tactics in his country's drug war.

Mr. Obama has yet to meet Mr. Duterte, and the timing would have been important:
The Philippines is in the midst of a dangerous tug-of-war with China over
disputed islands in the South China Sea.

Still, Mr. Obama questioned the wisdom of putting Mr. Duterte and himself in a
room together. "I always want to make sure if I'm having a meeting that it's
actually productive," he said.

"Clearly, he's a colorful guy," Mr. Obama added.

Neil MacFarquhar contributed reporting from Moscow.

PHOTOS: President Obama and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia met on Monday
at a Group of 20 summit meeting in Hangzhou, China, and discussed Syria. (POOL
PHOTO BY ALEXEI DRUZHININ) (A4); President Obama arriving on Monday in
Vientiane, Laos. He became the first sitting American president to visit the
country. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6)

Related Articles


     ·    Syrian Forces Make Gains Near Aleppo With Russian Help
     ·    Before G-20, Obama Tries to Smooth Things Over With Turkey
     ·    Obama Plays Down Confrontation With China Over His Plane's Stairs
     ·    U.S. Presses for Truce in Syria, With Its Larger Policy on Pause


LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 6, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Unlikely to Drop Option of First Strike

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1541 words


President Obama, who has weighed ruling out a first use of a nuclear weapon in a
conflict, appears likely to abandon the proposal after top national security
advisers argued that it could undermine allies and embolden Russia and China,
according to several senior administration officials.

Mr. Obama considers a reduction in the role of nuclear weapons as critical to
his legacy. But he has been chagrined to hear critics, including some former
senior aides, argue that the administration's second-term nuclear modernization
plans, costing up to $1 trillion in coming decades, undermine commitments he
made in 2009.

For months, arms control advocates have argued for a series of steps to advance
the pledge he made to pursue ''a world without nuclear weapons.'' An unequivocal
no-first-use pledge would have been the boldest of those measures. They contend
that as a practical matter no American president would use a nuclear weapon when
so many other options are available.

Former Defense Secretary William J. Perry said in a recent interview, ''It's the
right time,'' noting that the pledge would formalize what has been America's
unspoken policy for decades.

But in the end, Mr. Obama seems to have sided with his current advisers, who
warned in meetings culminating this summer that a no-first-use declaration would
rattle allies like Japan and South Korea. Those nations are concerned about
discussion of an American pullback from Asia prompted by comments made by the
Republican presidential nominee, Donald J. Trump.

Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter and Secretary of State John Kerry also
expressed concern that new moves by Russia and China, from the Baltic to the
South China Sea, made it the wrong time to issue the declaration, according to
senior aides in the Defense and State Departments. Secretary of Energy Ernest J.
Moniz, whose department oversees the nuclear arsenal, joined in the objections,
administration officials confirmed.

The New York Times interviewed more than a half-dozen administration officials
involved in or briefed on the nuclear debate. All insisted on anonymity to
describe internal administration deliberations on nuclear strategy.

The United States dropped nuclear bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan at
the end of World War II in 1945 -- the only example in history of a first use,
or any use, of nuclear weapons in warfare. Almost every president since Harry S.
Truman has made it clear that nuclear weapons would be used only as a last
resort, so the pledge would have largely ratified unwritten policy.

Administration officials confirmed that the question of changing the policy on
first use had come up repeatedly this summer as a way for Mr. Obama to show that
his commitment to reducing the role of nuclear weapons in American strategy --
and thus the risk of nuclear exchanges -- was more than rhetorical.

But the arguments in front of the president himself were relatively brief,
officials said, apparently because so many senior aides objected. Mr. Carter
argued that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and Kim Jong-un, the North
Korean leader, could interpret a promise of no first use as a sign of American
weakness, even though that was not the intent.

The defense secretary's position was supported by Mr. Kerry and Mr. Moniz, two
architects of the Iran nuclear deal, who cautioned that such a declaration could
unnerve American allies already fearful that America's nuclear umbrella cannot
be relied upon. Mr. Trump talked explicitly in interviews about withdrawing
military forces from Asia unless Tokyo and Seoul paid more for their presence,
and said in March that he was willing to see them build their own nuclear
arsenals rather than depend on Washington.

According to one senior administration official, Mr. Kerry told Mr. Obama that a
no-first-use pledge would also weaken the nuclear deterrent while Russia is
running practice bombing runs over Europe and China is expanding its reach in
the South China Sea.

Mr. Obama and his national security team have rejected a second option:
''de-alerting'' nuclear missiles ready to fire on short notice. The fear is that
in a crisis, ''re-alerting'' the weapons could escalate a conflict.

Earlier, Mr. Obama and his aides also decided against eliminating one element of
the ''triad'' of land-, air- and submarine-launched weapons. The idea was to
remove the missiles based in silos across the American West, which are
considered outdated and vulnerable to a first strike. But the Pentagon argued
strongly that the ground-based missiles were the part of the system with which
they had the most assured communications, and that it was too risky to get rid
of them.

In the past year, arms control advocates, including some of Mr. Obama's former
aides, have argued that Mr. Obama still has time to repair his reputation as an
atomic visionary.

''Let Obama be Obama,'' Andrew C. Weber, an assistant secretary of defense for
atomic programs from 2009 to 2014, said in an interview.

Mr. Weber strongly opposes the White House's recent approval of a nuclear cruise
missile. ''The defense complex is doing a full-court press, so things are going
to be very hard to change,'' he said.

Mr. Obama's favorite nuclear strategist in his first term, the retired vice
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. James E. Cartwright, wrote in a New
York Times Op-Ed article last month with Bruce G. Blair of Princeton University,
a former Minuteman launch officer, that ''nuclear weapons today no longer serve
any purpose beyond deterring the first use of such weapons by our adversaries.''

''Our nonnuclear strength, including economic and diplomatic power, our
alliances, our conventional and cyber weaponry and our technological advantages,
constitute a global military juggernaut unmatched in history,'' they concluded.

Mr. Obama made the eventual elimination of nuclear arms a centerpiece of his
2008 presidential campaign. In contrast, Hillary Clinton, the Democratic
nominee, has said little this year about her nuclear plans, and Mr. Trump has
argued for a major military buildup.

Once Mr. Obama took office, his ambitions were frustrated. While he achieved a
major arms control treaty, New Start, in 2010 -- driven through the Senate by
Mr. Kerry -- it came at a price: He won Republican votes by agreeing to a
sweeping plan to modernize the American nuclear arsenal and build a new
generation of weapon carriers, including bombers, missiles and submarines.

In 2013, some of Mr. Obama's former national security officials criticized the
plan, saying his original vision was in danger of being turned on its head. The
doubters included Philip E. Coyle III and Steve Fetter, who had recently left
White House posts.

One study estimated the modernization cost at $1 trillion over three decades.

The Federation of American Scientists, a private group in Washington, released
an analysis showing that Mr. Obama had dismantled fewer nuclear warheads than
any other post-Cold War president.

Inside the White House, Mr. Obama asked for new ideas to advance his agenda
before leaving office. In May, he went to Hiroshima -- the first American
president to do so -- and reaffirmed his vision of a nonnuclear world.

''We must have the courage to escape the logic of fear,'' he said at the
Hiroshima Peace Memorial. ''We may not realize this goal in my lifetime. But
persistent effort can roll back the possibility of catastrophe.''

Ten days later, Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser, outlined
possible efforts in a speech to the Arms Control Association, a private group in
Washington. His list included putting more nuclear material under tight
security, reaffirming a global ban on nuclear testing and revisiting the
administration's plans to modernize the nuclear arsenal. It was an agenda sure
to please his audience, but one that would largely fall to the next
administration to execute.

The president, Mr. Rhodes said, ''will continue to review these plans as he
considers how to hand the baton off to his successor.'' That review included the
no-first-use pledge.

Behind the scenes, Mr. Carter argued that a ban on first use would be unwise. If
North Korea used biological weapons against the South, he and other Pentagon
officials said, the United States might need the option of threatening a nuclear
response. Mr. Kerry argued that Japan would be unnerved by any diminution of the
American nuclear umbrella, and perhaps be tempted to obtain their own weapons.
The same argument, he said, applied to South Korea.

Mr. Kerry and Mr. Carter have not taken public positions in large part because
they do not want to appear to influence Mr. Obama as he makes a decision.

Had Mr. Obama issued the no-first-use declaration, officials conceded, the next
president could have rejected it. In an interview this year, Mr. Trump bristled
at the idea, saying he would never want to weaken America's leverage. Mrs.
Clinton has not spoken on the issue during her campaign.

But a no-first-use policy would have been hard for either to undo. Military
experts say the next president would hesitate to reverse such a decision since
the quick reversal would confuse allies and possibly fray important coalitions.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/06/science/obama-unlikely-to-vow-no-first-use-of-
nuclear-weapons.html

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State John Kerry with Foreign Minister Fumio
Kishida of Japan and foreign officials in Hiroshima in April. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
KIMIMASA MAYAMA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A13)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 6, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Gaps of Trust' With Russia Bar New Effort to Broker Syrian Cease-Fire, Obama
Says

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Neil MacFarquhar contributed reporting from Moscow.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1205 words


VIENTIANE, Laos -- The Obama administration's latest effort to broker a
cease-fire in Syria's civil war fell short on Monday, after a 90-minute meeting
between President Obama and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia failed to
resolve problems between them.

''Given the gaps of trust that exist, that's a tough negotiation, and we haven't
yet closed the gaps in a way where we think it would actually work,'' Mr. Obama
declared at a news conference at the end of a Group of 20 summit meeting in
Hangzhou, China.

He did not describe the points of contention. Other officials have said they
involve technical issues like how to staff checkpoints in combat areas. But the
checkered history of Syrian cease-fires -- the United States agreed to one with
Russia in February, only to watch it unravel weeks later -- has left the
president deeply leery.

On a day of diplomacy and history, Mr. Obama later flew to Laos, becoming the
first sitting American president to visit this country, where children still
stumble over unexploded bombs dropped by the United States during the Vietnam
War. Having failed to halt the guns in Syria, Mr. Obama will seek reconciliation
with the victims of a war long over.

He insisted he was not giving up on Syria, however. Mr. Obama said he had
instructed Secretary of State John Kerry to continue negotiating with the
Russians this week to see if a deal on Syria was possible.

The goals would be to halt the rain of bombs on Aleppo and to give breathing
space to a United Nations-led effort to find a political end to Syria's war
between the forces of President Bashar al-Assad, which are backed by Russia, and
an array of insurgents seeking to depose him.

''The faster we can offer some relief to folks on ground,'' Mr. Obama said,
''the better off we're going to be.''

At his own news conference in Hangzhou, Mr. Putin said the Syria talks were on
the ''right track,'' though he declined to discuss details of a deal. He
expressed hope that an agreement could be reached ''in the next few days,''
despite earlier disagreements.

''Then we can say that our joint work with the United States in the fight
against terrorist organizations, including along the Syrian track, will be
significantly improved and intensified,'' Mr. Putin said.

Mr. Obama's appearance was his last at the Group of 20, a gathering of
industrialized nations that is supposed to focus on economic issues but often
finds those matters eclipsed by war and terrorism. He reminisced about his first
meeting, in 2009, when the world was still reeling from the financial crisis.
This time, the meeting dramatized both his lame-duck status and the changed
world that his successor will inherit.

On Sunday, during a photograph session with the other leaders, Mr. Putin and
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey huddled with each other. A curious Mr.
Obama peered at them from the other side of the room. Tensions between Russia
and Turkey have escalated over Syria, but the two countries' leaders have begun
talking more in recent weeks, just as Turkey's ties with the United States have
frayed.

Mr. Obama had a rough welcome in Hangzhou on Saturday, when a dispute over the
stairs he would use to exit Air Force One left him disembarking from a door in
the belly of the plane. Some China experts interpreted it as a snub of a
departing leader by a rising power.

On his departure, however, the Chinese arranged for a shiny set of stairs with a
strip of blue lights beneath the railing to be rolled up to the plane.

Mr. Obama remains a central figure in conversations on a variety of issues,
including Iran and international economics. But there was a palpable sense on
his Asia trip that the world was awaiting a new president to reassess American
policies in Syria, Ukraine and North Korea.

On Syria, Mr. Obama left the diplomatic heavy lifting to Mr. Kerry, who met
twice in Hangzhou with the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov. On
Sunday, the Americans were confident enough of success that they scheduled a
briefing to announce a cease-fire agreement, erecting two lecterns for the
secretary of state and foreign minister.

Soon afterward, State Department officials hastily removed one, and Mr. Kerry
turned up alone to report that the United States and Russia had been unable to
move past a handful of ''tough issues.'' The talks continued, though, with the
Russians appearing more eager than the Americans to elevate them to the
presidential level.

Mr. Obama has been openly skeptical of the likelihood of a durable deal
involving the Russians. After the meeting with Mr. Putin, it was clear his
suspicions had not been dispelled. He recalled the failure of the previous deal
that the United States had made with Russia.

''Slowly, it unwound, and we're back into a situation in which Assad's regime is
bombing with impunity,'' he said. ''That is a very dangerous dynamic.''

As he often does, Mr. Obama characterized his exchange with Mr. Putin as blunt
and businesslike. There was no shortage of thorny subjects. The president said
they had discussed computer security, though he declined to say whether he had
brought up allegations that Russia breached the computer systems of the
Democratic National Committee.

''We've had trouble with cyber intrusions from Russia in the past,'' he said.
''We're moving into a new era.''

Mr. Obama is also hoping to turn the page in Laos. The ostensible reason for the
visit is two regional conferences that will give him a chance to promote his
strategy of pivoting to Asia: the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the
East Asia Summit.

But Laos has other resonance for Mr. Obama, who has made a vocation, from Cuba
to Myanmar, of opening ties to closed societies. The United States and Laos have
a difficult relationship that dates to the C.I.A.'s undeclared war in the 1960s
and '70s, when American warplanes dropped 270 million bombs on this country,
many of which are still buried in fields and forests.

Mr. Obama, administration officials said, would pledge millions of dollars in
additional funding to help clear unexploded ordnance from the Laotian
countryside.

''Since Laos is still a relatively poor country that is developing, their
capacity alone to clean that up is hampered by lack of resources,'' he said.
''We should help.''

First, though, the president canceled a meeting scheduled for Tuesday with the
leader of the Philippines, an American ally in Southeast Asia. Earlier in the
day, the new Philippine president, Rodrigo Duterte, delivered a profanity-laced
diatribe against Mr. Obama, calling him, among other things, a ''son of a
bitch.''

Mr. Duterte threatened to do so again face to face if the president challenged
his inflammatory words or his unorthodox tactics in his country's drug war.

Mr. Obama has yet to meet Mr. Duterte, and the timing would have been important:
The Philippines is in the midst of a dangerous tug-of-war with China over
disputed islands in the South China Sea.

Still, Mr. Obama questioned the wisdom of putting Mr. Duterte and himself in a
room together. ''I always want to make sure if I'm having a meeting that it's
actually productive,'' he said.

''Clearly, he's a colorful guy,'' Mr. Obama added.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/06/world/europe/g20-obama-syria.html

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia met
on Monday at a Group of 20 summit meeting in Hangzhou, China, and discussed
Syria. (POOL PHOTO BY ALEXEI DRUZHININ) (A4)
 President Obama arriving on Monday in Vientiane, Laos. He became the first
sitting American president to visit the country. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN
CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       September 9, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

Jon Ronson Reviews a New Book About Bad Digital Behavior;
Nonfiction

BYLINE: JON RONSON

SECTION: BOOKS; review

LENGTH: 1393 words



HIGHLIGHT: Why for many of us does our behavior change while in the digital
world? Mary Aiken's "The Cyber Effect" considers the possibilities.


THE CYBER EFFECT
A Pioneering Cyberpsychologist Explains How Human Behavior Changes Online
By Mary Aiken
387 pp. Spiegel & Grau. $28.

Mary Aiken is sitting against a concrete wall in a police briefing room in South
Los Angeles. "My stomach is churning, a combination of hunger, jet lag and
apprehension." She's tagging along on a police raid of the biggest human
trafficker in the United States. "It is unexpectedly chilly this morning.
Fortunately I have a bulletproof vest and a steel ballistic helmet to keep me
warm. . . . How on earth did I get here?"

She got there by being a "forensic ­cyberpsychologist" -- an adviser to
Interpol, the F.B.I. and the White House on the psychology of online criminals.
This is a much more exciting-sounding job title than the rest of us who write
about the dark side of the internet tend to have, and she's not afraid to play
her advantage. She often begins a thought by writing, "As a forensic
cyberpsychologist. . . ."

Even though our dysfunctional relationship with technology is the story of our
times, readers often prejudge books on the topic as boring. So I'd have loved
Aiken to continue in this thrilling -- if slightly hacky -- vein. Unfortunately,
the raid is over within a couple of pages, and after that "The Cyber Effect"
frequently descends into the familiar trudge of the pop-psychology book.

There are the regular research ­studies -- on disinhibition, moral disengagement
and deep vein thrombosis -- peppered with anomalous case studies: the boy who
played World of Warcraft for 36 hours straight and then jumped out of a window;
the 12-year-old Wisconsin girls who stabbed a classmate 19 times while in thrall
to Slender Man, a monster they had read about online and misjudged as real.
Aiken sometimes ends these horrifying stories noting that this "is an extreme
and thankfully uncommon example," which makes you wonder why she included them.
In fact, one of the Slender Man girls later received a diagnosis of early-onset
schizophrenia, though Aiken suggests that might have been the internet's fault
too.

This is her provocative and at times compelling thesis: The internet -- "the
largest unregulated social experiment of all time," in the words of the clinical
psychologist Michael Seto -- is turning us, as a species, more mentally
disordered, anxious, obsessive, narcissistic, exhibitionist, body dysmorphic,
psychopathic, schizophrenic. All this might unleash a "surge in deviant,
criminal and abnormal behavior in the general population." We check our mobile
devices 1,500 times a week, sometimes even secretly, before the plane's pilot
tells us it's safe. Our ethics have become so impaired that some of us take
selfies in front of people threatening to jump from bridges. (Having spent years
with people disproportionately shamed on social media for some minor
transgression, I can attest to how the internet can rob people of empathy.)

She paints an evocative image of sitting on a train to Galway, watching a woman
breast-feed her baby: "The baby was gazing foggily upward . . . looking
adoringly at the mother's jaw, as the mother continued to gaze adoringly at her
device." How will such a seemingly tiny behavioral shift like less eye contact
between mother and baby play out over time? Aiken asks. "This small and simple
thing, millions of babies around the world getting less eye contact and less
one-on-one attention, could result in an evolutionary blip. Yes, I said it.
Evolutionary blip. Less eye contact could change the course of human
civilization."

If you think she's getting a little overblown here, so do I. She makes important
observations but weakens them by wildly overplaying her hand. Take the chapters
on online pornography. It's startling that a generation of 8- to 12-year-olds is
learning about sex via easily accessible free porn. And the porn itself is
getting more lurid than ever, thanks to the tech world's devotion to algorithms.
"Extreme content and scary scenarios, which always draw the most adult eyeballs,
can be presented first . . . due to the popularity of the sensational
information," she explains.

But then, while writing about how the internet normalizes aberrant sexual
behavior, she lays into "Fifty Shades of Grey" for introducing "serious
paraphilias, sexual sadism disorder and sexual masochism disorder, to the
general reading public as a fun and fascinating pastime." Surely, few of the
novel's millions of readers have fallen into sexual pandemonium. She diagnoses
the former New York representative Anthony Weiner -- who resigned from Congress
after a sexting scandal -- with "exhibitionistic disorder," a paraphilia "that
centers on a need to expose one's genitals to others. . . . I call this cyber
-­exhibitionism."

After labeling Weiner from afar -- never a likable practice, and one that's been
banned as irresponsible by the American Psychiatric Association -- she goes on
to sucker-punch him. After he disastrously attempted to run for mayor of New
York, reporters asked him what he planned to do next. "He whipped out his middle
finger and flipped the bird," Aiken writes. "Perhaps the next best thing to the
open raincoat." Actually, Weiner flipped the bird for reasons that had nothing
to do with exhibitionism. He was evidently venting his frustration at a media
that had, throughout his campaign, fixated on his scandal while ignoring his
policies. At times like this, "The Cyber Effect" can feel like a nasty book.

Then there's the constant unhelpful mental health labeling. Internet trolls have
"a set of characteristics that are found together in a cluster: narcissism,
sadism, psychopathy and Machiavellianism." She declares herself scandalized that
hypersexual disorder was snubbed for inclusion in the DSM-5, making her a member
of a rare group -- someone who thinks there aren't enough mental disorders in
the DSM.

In one particularly objectionable passage, she compares a 10-year-old boy
showing his school friends a picture of his topless "very young girlfriend" to
adult sex offenders who "generate an original indecent image of a child" to
prove they have "access to a victim -- and to original content." While
troubling, a middle schooler sharing photographs of his middle-school girlfriend
with his peers does not equate to a propensity toward child pornography.
Assertions like that are a small step from advocating that children be
criminalized and placed on the sex offenders' registry for this kind of
behavior. (To her credit she later notes that law enforcement should
differentiate between "teenage voluntary sexual exploration" and the "criminal
generation of child abuse material." So why liken the two so alarmingly
herself?)

Given that Aiken is a forensic cyberpsychologist, it's no surprise that she
tends to advocate "more governance" and "more regulation." But there's something
a little "Reefer Madness" about this book. I wish it were less stigmatizing and
more humanizing. Not every troll is a ­psychopath.

Still, I nodded vigorously at times -- especially at Aiken's assertion that "the
greatest trick social media and telecom companies ever pulled is trying to
convince us that they can do nothing about cyberbullying." Try complaining to
Twitter when you've been subjected to abuse on their platform. You'll almost
certainly get a form letter telling you the abuse isn't in contravention of
their policies.

But then Aiken undermines her case by accusing "device manufacturers" and
"internet providers" of "collectively participating in the abuse of that child"
when he or she comes across pornography or images of decapitation online. What?
That's Tim Cook's fault? "All those complicit should be held accountable," she
writes. "Mark Zuckerberg and his wife, Priscilla Chan, have pledged to donate 99
percent of their Facebook shares to the cause of human advancement. That
represents about $45 billion at Facebook's current valuation. I would
respectfully suggest that all of this money be directed toward human problems
associated with social media."

Oh, come on! All of it? While sporadically absorbing, "The Cyber Effect," like
the internet, frequently takes things out of proportion and creates hysteria
from fragments.

Jon Ronson is the author of "So You've Been Publicly Shamed." His forthcoming
series on sex and the internet -- "The Butterfly Effect" -- is being produced by
Audible.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY BRÁULIO AMADO)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 11, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Offline Jekylls, Online Hydes

BYLINE: By JON RONSON.

Jon Ronson is the author of ''So You've Been Publicly Shamed.'' His forthcoming
series on sex and the internet -- ''The Butterfly Effect'' -- is being produced
by Audible.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; NONFICTION; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1382 words


THE CYBER EFFECTA Pioneering Cyberpsychologist Explains How Human Behavior
Changes OnlineBy Mary Aiken387 pp. Spiegel & Grau. $28.

Mary Aiken is sitting against a concrete wall in a police briefing room in South
Los Angeles. ''My stomach is churning, a combination of hunger, jet lag and
apprehension.'' She's tagging along on a police raid of the biggest human
trafficker in the United States. ''It is unexpectedly chilly this morning.
Fortunately I have a bulletproof vest and a steel ballistic helmet to keep me
warm. .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. How on earth did I get here?''

She got there by being a ''forensic Â­cyberpsychologist'' -- an adviser to
Interpol, the F.B.I. and the White House on the psychology of online criminals.
This is a much more exciting-sounding job title than the rest of us who write
about the dark side of the internet tend to have, and she's not afraid to play
her advantage. She often begins a thought by writing, ''As a forensic
cyberpsychologist. .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6].''

Even though our dysfunctional relationship with technology is the story of our
times, readers often prejudge books on the topic as boring. So I'd have loved
Aiken to continue in this thrilling -- if slightly hacky -- vein. Unfortunately,
the raid is over within a couple of pages, and after that ''The Cyber Effect''
frequently descends into the familiar trudge of the pop-psychology book.

There are the regular research Â­studies -- on disinhibition, moral
disengagement and deep vein thrombosis -- peppered with anomalous case studies:
the boy who played World of Warcraft for 36 hours straight and then jumped out
of a window; the 12-year-old Wisconsin girls who stabbed a classmate 19 times
while in thrall to Slender Man, a monster they had read about online and
misjudged as real. Aiken sometimes ends these horrifying stories noting that
this ''is an extreme and thankfully uncommon example,'' which makes you wonder
why she included them. In fact, one of the Slender Man girls later received a
diagnosis of early-onset schizophrenia, though Aiken suggests that might have
been the internet's fault too.

This is her provocative and at times compelling thesis: The internet -- ''the
largest unregulated social experiment of all time,'' in the words of the
clinical psychologist Michael Seto -- is turning us, as a species, more mentally
disordered, anxious, obsessive, narcissistic, exhibitionist, body dysmorphic,
psychopathic, schizophrenic. All this might unleash a ''surge in deviant,
criminal and abnormal behavior in the general population.'' We check our mobile
devices 1,500 times a week, sometimes even secretly, before the plane's pilot
tells us it's safe. Our ethics have become so impaired that some of us take
selfies in front of people threatening to jump from bridges. (Having spent years
with people disproportionately shamed on social media for some minor
transgression, I can attest to how the internet can rob people of empathy.)

She paints an evocative image of sitting on a train to Galway, watching a woman
breast-feed her baby: ''The baby was gazing foggily upward
.â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. looking adoringly at the mother's jaw, as
the mother continued to gaze adoringly at her device.'' How will such a
seemingly tiny behavioral shift like less eye contact between mother and baby
play out over time? Aiken asks. ''This small and simple thing, millions of
babies around the world getting less eye contact and less one-on-one attention,
could result in an evolutionary blip. Yes, I said it. Evolutionary blip. Less
eye contact could change the course of human civilization.''

If you think she's getting a little overblown here, so do I. She makes important
observations but weakens them by wildly overplaying her hand. Take the chapters
on online pornography. It's startling that a generation of 8- to 12-year-olds is
learning about sex via easily accessible free porn. And the porn itself is
getting more lurid than ever, thanks to the tech world's devotion to algorithms.
''Extreme content and scary scenarios, which always draw the most adult
eyeballs, can be presented first .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. due to the
popularity of the sensational information,'' she explains.

But then, while writing about how the internet normalizes aberrant sexual
behavior, she lays into ''Fifty Shades of Grey'' for introducing ''serious
paraphilias, sexual sadism disorder and sexual masochism disorder, to the
general reading public as a fun and fascinating pastime.'' Surely, few of the
novel's millions of readers have fallen into sexual pandemonium. She diagnoses
the former New York representative Anthony Weiner -- who resigned from Congress
after a sexting scandal -- with ''exhibitionistic disorder,'' a paraphilia
''that centers on a need to expose one's genitals to others.
.â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. I call this cyber-Â­exhibitionism.''

After labeling Weiner from afar -- never a likable practice, and one that's been
banned as irresponsible by the American Psychiatric Association -- she goes on
to sucker-punch him. After he disastrously attempted to run for mayor of New
York, reporters asked him what he planned to do next. ''He whipped out his
middle finger and flipped the bird,'' Aiken writes. ''Perhaps the next best
thing to the open raincoat.'' Actually, Weiner flipped the bird for reasons that
had nothing to do with exhibitionism. He was evidently venting his frustration
at a media that had, throughout his campaign, fixated on his scandal while
ignoring his policies. At times like this, ''The Cyber Effect'' can feel like a
nasty book.

Then there's the constant unhelpful mental health labeling. Internet trolls have
''a set of characteristics that are found together in a cluster: narcissism,
sadism, psychopathy and Machiavellianism.'' She declares herself scandalized
that hypersexual disorder was snubbed for inclusion in the DSM-5, making her a
member of a rare group -- someone who thinks there aren't enough mental
disorders in the DSM.

In one particularly objectionable passage, she compares a 10-year-old boy
showing his school friends a picture of his topless ''very young girlfriend'' to
adult sex offenders who ''generate an original indecent image of a child'' to
prove they have ''access to a victim -- and to original content.'' While
troubling, a middle schooler sharing photographs of his middle-school girlfriend
with his peers does not equate to a propensity toward child pornography.
Assertions like that are a small step from advocating that children be
criminalized and placed on the sex offenders' registry for this kind of
behavior. (To her credit she later notes that law enforcement should
differentiate between ''teenage voluntary sexual exploration'' and the
''criminal generation of child abuse material.'' So why liken the two so
alarmingly herself?)

Given that Aiken is a forensic cyberpsychologist, it's no surprise that she
tends to advocate ''more governance'' and ''more regulation.'' But there's
something a little ''Reefer Madness'' about this book. I wish it were less
stigmatizing and more humanizing. Not every troll is a Â­psychopath.

Still, I nodded vigorously at times -- especially at Aiken's assertion that
''the greatest trick social media and telecom companies ever pulled is trying to
convince us that they can do nothing about cyberbullying.'' Try complaining to
Twitter when you've been subjected to abuse on their platform. You'll almost
certainly get a form letter telling you the abuse isn't in contravention of
their policies.

But then Aiken undermines her case by accusing ''device manufacturers'' and
''internet providers'' of ''collectively participating in the abuse of that
child'' when he or she comes across pornography or images of decapitation
online. What? That's Tim Cook's fault? ''All those complicit should be held
accountable,'' she writes. ''Mark Zuckerberg and his wife, Priscilla Chan, have
pledged to donate 99 percent of their Facebook shares to the cause of human
advancement. That represents about $45 billion at Facebook's current valuation.
I would respectfully suggest that all of this money be directed toward human
problems associated with social media.''

Oh, come on! All of it? While sporadically absorbing, ''The Cyber Effect,'' like
the internet, frequently takes things out of proportion and creates hysteria
from fragments.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/11/books/review/cyber-effect-mary-aiken.html

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      September 13, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

The Medieval Monasteries of Kosovo;
Cultured Traveler

BYLINE: ELISABETH ZEROFSKY

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 1974 words



HIGHLIGHT: In the heart of Kosovo, where religion and politics can be a volatile
mix, lie centuries-old masterpieces of ecclesiastical architecture.


The main street in Gracanica, a village on the outskirts of Pristina, the
capital of Kosovo, is lined with bakeries and markets strung together in a
jumble until the shop fronts give way to a high stone wall. Step to the other
side, and the hum of Volkswagens and Skodas falls away almost entirely. At the
center of a wide lawn sits Gracanica Monastery, a masterpiece of late-Byzantine
ecclesiastical architecture, its rosy domes like steppingstones that draw the
eye and the spirit toward the sky.

Gracanica was the last monastery constructed, in the early 14th century, by the
Serbian King Stefan Milutin, who had promised God that he would build a church
for each of the 40-odd years of his reign. Inside the nave, scarcely an inch of
the stone shows through the hundreds of frescoes that ascend the walls and pool
in the arches of the cupolas. One need not count oneself among the faithful to
be silenced by the suffusion of contemplation and color -- seabed blue, the
opulent scarlets and gold halos of the sainted patriarchs of the Serbian
Orthodox Church, their faces blackened remarkably little over seven centuries.

When I visited Gracanica, a protected Unesco World Heritage site, in late May,
Trojan Parlic, a caretaker with delicately graying curls and a corduroy blazer,
led me to a rendering in the church's nave of 16 branches of the medieval ruling
dynasty. Christ the Pantocrator floated protectively at the summit. Mr. Parlic
told me that the entire interior had been completed over three years, from 1318
to 1321, by two artists from Thessaloniki.

"So the painters were Greek?" I said.

Mr. Parlic shrugged. "I don't know if they were Greeks or if they were Serbs. It
doesn't matter."

Ah, but it does. Kosovo has long been called "Serbia's Jerusalem" because of the
important medieval monasteries, like Gracanica, within its borders. It is also
where the 1389 Battle of Kosovo, a defining event in the creation myth of
Serbian civilization, took place. On the Kosovo plain, a valley that opens out
to the northwest of Gracanica, the Christian Serbs were, according to the myth,
defeated by the Muslim Turks and subsequently endured 500 years of domination
under Ottoman rule. In the years leading to the breakup of Yugoslavia, Serbian
epic poetry idealizing the martyrdom of 1389 breathed life into nationalist
ideology that held Kosovo as the Serbian homeland "composed of heaven and
earth."

The myths can be and have been deconstructed, but that didn't prevent them from
being used as propaganda by the Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic in an
ethnic cleansing campaign against Kosovo's Albanians in the late 1990s. A NATO
intervention in 1999 helped stop the violence, and in 2008, with the backing of
the United States, Kosovo declared itself independent from Serbia as a new,
majority-Albanian state.

At Gracanica, I stood next to Mr. Parlic before the figure of John the Baptist
washing the darkness from Christ, while just above them the soldiers of a Roman
army battalion advance into the frame, demanding to be baptized. This was the
first instance, Mr. Parlic told me, of medieval iconography displaying pagans
who sought to become Christians.

Mr. Parlic leaned in closer to me. "Are you very religious?" he said.

I took that as my exit cue, and made my way across the clean lawn. From there it
was a seven-minute walk through town to my hotel. Hot pink stucco houses tumbled
down a country road, and a scattering of wire chicken coops backed up against
freshly laid brick sidewalks.

Around a bend lay Hotel Gracanica, Kosovo's first and only boutique hotel. All
right angles and clean lines of white terrazzo and Austrian pine, the hotel has
a monastic air unto itself. It was opened three years ago by Andreas Wormser, a
Swiss attaché who worked in the refugee section of the Swiss embassy in Kosovo
after the war.

He returned to Bern in 2004 but grew bored with the bureaucracy and came back to
Kosovo to invest. Mr. Wormser found local partners in Hisen Gashnjani, who had
worked as a translator at the embassy, and Atlan Gidjic, whom he'd met at a
concert in the town where Mr. Gidjic lives. "We quickly became "kucni
prijatelji," Mr. Gidjic told me, "home friends."

The partners had hoped for a rural location, but after two years searching the
treacherous market for a land permit ("It's never boring here," Mr. Wormser told
me), they compromised by laying out the hotel at the edge of town in a slender
"L"; the 15 rooms line the length of the edifice, each with a single wall of
solid glass that looks out back onto quiet hills planted with corn, the bluish
outline of Kosovo's more dramatic mountain ranges -- the Accursed Mountains --
hovering beyond. The airy tranquillity of the building, which opened in 2013,
evokes a kind of Balkan Grand Budapest Hotel with its hard-won inoculation from
the swirl of politics outside.

It seems hard to believe, but Hotel Gracanica is also one of the few multiethnic
businesses in Kosovo, where Albanian and Serb communities remain in de facto
segregation, and is perhaps the only hotel in the world with a majority Roma
management.

In late May, just shy of the summer season, I found myself the only diner in the
hotel restaurant on a Saturday night, its pine tables covered in bright
geometric textiles from a nearby town. In a short time I had before me a full
platter of meze in the Kosovar style, which is Turkish-inspired but distinctly
Balkan: ground chicken and beef kofte, mushrooms stuffed with carrot and crème
fraîche, hot peppers cooked in spicy yogurt, accompanied by a large disc of
pitarke bread, which is like pita but softer inside, and was clearly intended
for multiple diners though I finished it all myself without any problem. Ajvar,
a sweet red-pepper jam, brightens everything.

I wasn't surprised to learn that the hotel is not yet turning a profit. It
asserts its role as a community hub by hosting shows for local artists and
musicians, and its weekend brunch draws guests from Pristina's sizable expat
crowd (the European Union maintains a heavy presence in local governance).
British lawyers laze next to the pool as the afternoon sun arcs over the hills,
gossiping about recent convictions of Albanian mobsters and future postings to
Africa before heading back to Pristina, a 15-minute drive away.

Pristina has the beginnings of a tourism industry without the tourists, so to
speak. The recently renovated airport gleams with anticipation but remains low
in traffic, reflecting the euphoria that accompanied statehood eight years ago,
which has turned into frustration.

The city is a postwar boomtown of sorts, with luxury high-rises popping up in
every other neighborhood and cranes in primary colors punctuating the skyline.
Everyone seems to know but won't say what's driving the boom; Kosovo remains one
of the poorest countries in Europe, and corruption has helped keep it there.

Still, 70 percent of the population is under 35, and many corners of Pristina
rock with energy. On a weekend evening outside Dit e Nat, a bookstore of exposed
brick and reclaimed wood floors that is also a cafe and event space,
30-somethings stood on a patch of gravel drinking Birra Prishtina and smoking
Winstons while a Romany rock group performed. A man in Breton stripes introduced
himself as an anarchist, despite, or perhaps because of, his being employed by
the Interior Ministry. Women in chambray and lipstick the color of a Bic Lady
razor browsed shelves displaying Salman Rushdie's "The Satanic Verses" in
Albanian, and a friend handed me a thimble-sized plastic cup spilling over with
plum raki, the local brandy, which I sipped, with a choke.

Back at Hotel Gracanica, the staff helped arrange for a Serb driver to pick me
up at six o'clock on Sunday morning. We drove across the Kosovo plain, through
the early morning shadows, toward the Visoki Decani monastery, reputedly one of
the most beautiful places in the western Balkans.

The monasteries have been viewed as symbols of Serbian oppression during moments
of tension, and have been the target of protests. Outside the town we slalomed
between brightly striated roadblocks that led to a checkpoint, where Italian
marines, remnants of the NATO forces during the war, photographed our license
plate before letting us inside the property.

The monastery grounds are carved into the slope of a chestnut forest. Except for
the trill of a few blackbirds, a stunning silence encircles the church, its
facade of alternating lavender marble and straw-colored onyx fusing into a
bright white in the sun. Decani, which was completed around 1335, is a livelier
monastery than Gracanica, and the Decani monks have a reputation for their
hospitality and their affinity for social media -- they constantly update their
Facebook pagewith photos of the concerts and lunches they organize for visitors.

The Decani monks are also known for their magnificent chanting. On Sunday
morning the church's nave, cool and damp and smelling lightly of incense, fills
with the clear harmonies of the monks' voices during an hourlong liturgy, the
textures expanding into diminished chords before resolving into the consensus of
unison. Among the hundreds of darkened frescoes, strips of light from a few
high-placed windows irradiate the face of the Madonna, her mystical gaze
inviting the worshiper to trust that what is unknowable to the human mind might
be experienced through the ecstasy of the spirit.

Afterward, while visitors sipped raki, I spoke with Father Sava Janjic, the
abbot of Decani. Father Sava is known for his humanist views -- he has been
criticized by Serb nationalists for helping Albanians during the war, and by
Albanian nationalists for his firm stance on protecting Decani and other
Orthodox sites. He is also known for emphatically expressing these views on
Twitter, which has earned him the title of "cyber monk." He served me sweet
apple juice from the monastery orchard.

"We happen to be something different, which doesn't fit into someone's political
and historical narrative," Father Sava told me, his face framed by a halo of
frizzy blond hair, his expression soft except when he hit on a particularly
urgent thought. The day before, the church had won a 16-year lawsuit over
ownership of the property. "Unfortunately there seem to be some people who
believe that they have to change history and everything in the nation-building
process," he said. "But I always say the identity of these places has to be
understood in layers."

The drive back to Hotel Gracanica took me past a construction lot promising
"luxury living" at something called the Diamond Residence, and a BMW dealership
that had been erected next to a junkyard. The country seemed to be barreling
ahead in its rush to cover up the old layers with new ones. Maybe, it occurred
to me, that's not the only way.

IF YOU GO

Hotel Gracanica (Ul. Dragana Ristica, Gracanica, Kosovo; hotelgracanica.com).
Prices range from 50 euros for a single room to 130 euros for a small studio
($56 to $145). In the hotel's restaurant, the Saturday night meze platter is
8.50 euros, and Sunday brunch is 10 euros.

Visoki Decani Monastery To arrange a visit contact the monastery through its
Facebook page: facebook.com/Decani.Manastir. Or email: v.decani@gmail.com.

To tour Gracanica Monastery, email info@kosovoguide.com or call 38-166-800-5522.

PHOTOS: At left, Gracanica Monastery on the outskirts of Pristina; its interior,
below left, is illuminated by frescoes from the early 14th century.; Above, the
countryside on the drive to the Visoki Decani Monastery; below, the roof lines
at Decani and a view of the interior. Bottom, the pool at Hotel Gracanica and
Dit e Nat, a bookstore and cafe in Pristina. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIELLE VILLASANA
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 MAPS

Related Articles


     ·    Skiing Kosovo, Abandoned Lifts and All
     ·    In Kosovo, a Thirst for Progress, and Beer, Too


LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     September 15, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

The Dye Artist Behind the Cyberpunk Dreadlocks at Marc Jacobs;
Backstage Beauty Report

BYLINE: KARI MOLVAR

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; fashion

LENGTH: 468 words



HIGHLIGHT: The hairstylist Guido Palau shares the process behind the colorful,
vertiginous style, inspired by the director Lana Wachowski.


"So it's really subtle, easy," the hairstylist Guido Palau joked of the
punk-pastel dreadlock hairstyle he created backstage at Marc Jacobs's
spring/summer 2017 show today. The inspiration behind the explosively colorful,
vertiginous style: Lana Wachowski, the transgender film director whom the
designer cast in his spring 2016 ad campaign. "She's got this beautiful
wool-colored hair in her hair extensions, so that was the first starting point,"
said Palau, adding that the effect also riffs on rave culture, acid house and
Japanese Harajuku Girls. "It's more cyber, in a way," he said. "They almost look
like they stepped out of a computer."

Fittingly, Palau hit the internet to source the custom-dyed dreadlocks,
eventually stumbling upon Jena Counts. The self-taught founder of
DreadlocksbyJena.com had been making rainbow-hued dreads for a little over a
year in Palatka, Fla., when Palau and his team contacted her last July. One can
only imagine how bizarre the order request must have seemed, as Palau didn't
just need a handful but hundreds of hair pieces. "It was racks of them!" he
said.

To complete the job, Counts and her assistants - her two daughters - flew into
New York and were put up in an apartment, working for six days straight to
produce a staggering 12,500 yards of fabric, which was dyed more than 200
different shades. "The way Marc works is that he wants to see the dark with the
pink, and the dark with the blue," said Palau. "He's such a great designer in
that he doesn't see any limitations - and then everybody else starts to have
that idea."

Getting the dreads into the hair was labor intensive. "If the girls don't arrive
one and a half hours before, they can't be in the show," Palau said, smiling,
and noting that he arrived at 5 a.m. to get through the lineup of models that
included sisters Bella and Gigi Hadid. His technique involved twisting the hair
into dreads, then pinning and knotting the snakelike coils into place. "It's
asymmetric, with bits hanging out over the face," he explained of the shape.

And while it might seem like a don't-even-bother-trying-this-at-home look, Palau
begged to differ. "When I was growing up in London in the '80s, lots of people
had hair like this, and you still see girls and boys with their hair like this,"
he noted. "The interesting thing about Marc is how he takes something that's so
street and raw or that we've seen a million times - but he makes us look at it
again in a much more sophisticated, fashionable way." The model Cheyenne Keuben,
for her part, planned on leaving the show with her dreads intact, and heading
straight to the airport to catch a plane to London for the next round of shows.
Whether the look that will pass through the airport security scanners is TBD.
"There are a lot of pins in here," she said, laughing.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Glorious Sentinels in an Ever-Changing Land

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ZEROFSKY

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; CULTURED TRAVELER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1902 words


The main street in Gracanica, a village on the outskirts of Pristina, the
capital of Kosovo, is lined with bakeries and markets strung together in a
jumble until the shop fronts give way to a high stone wall. Step to the other
side, and the hum of Volkswagens and Skodas falls away almost entirely. At the
center of a wide lawn sits Gracanica Monastery, a masterpiece of late-Byzantine
ecclesiastical architecture, its rosy domes like steppingstones that draw the
eye and the spirit toward the sky.

Gracanica was the last monastery constructed, in the early 14th century, by the
Serbian King Stefan Milutin, who had promised God that he would build a church
for each of the 40-odd years of his reign. Inside the nave, scarcely an inch of
the stone shows through the hundreds of frescoes that ascend the walls and pool
in the arches of the cupolas. One need not count oneself among the faithful to
be silenced by the suffusion of contemplation and color -- seabed blue, the
opulent scarlets and gold halos of the sainted patriarchs of the Serbian
Orthodox Church, their faces blackened remarkably little over seven centuries.

When I visited Gracanica, a protected Unesco World Heritage site, in late May,
Trojan Parlic, a caretaker with delicately graying curls and a corduroy blazer,
led me to a rendering in the church's nave of 16 branches of the medieval ruling
dynasty. Christ the Pantocrator floated protectively at the summit. Mr. Parlic
told me that the entire interior had been completed over three years, from 1318
to 1321, by two artists from Thessaloniki.

''So the painters were Greek?'' I said.

Mr. Parlic shrugged. ''I don't know if they were Greeks or if they were Serbs.
It doesn't matter.''

Ah, but it does. Kosovo has long been called ''Serbia's Jerusalem'' because of
the important medieval monasteries, like Gracanica, within its borders. It is
also where the 1389 Battle of Kosovo, a defining event in the creation myth of
Serbian civilization, took place. On the Kosovo plain, a valley that opens out
to the northwest of Gracanica, the Christian Serbs were, according to the myth,
defeated by the Muslim Turks and subsequently endured 500 years of domination
under Ottoman rule. In the years leading to the breakup of Yugoslavia, Serbian
epic poetry idealizing the martyrdom of 1389 breathed life into nationalist
ideology that held Kosovo as the Serbian homeland ''composed of heaven and
earth.''

The myths can be and have been deconstructed, but that didn't prevent them from
being used as propaganda by the Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic in an
ethnic cleansing campaign against Kosovo's Albanians in the late 1990s. A NATO
intervention in 1999 helped stop the violence, and in 2008, with the backing of
the United States, Kosovo declared itself independent from Serbia as a new,
majority-Albanian state.

At Gracanica, I stood next to Mr. Parlic before the figure of John the Baptist
washing the darkness from Christ, while just above them the soldiers of a Roman
army battalion advance into the frame, demanding to be baptized. This was the
first instance, Mr. Parlic told me, of medieval iconography displaying pagans
who sought to become Christians.

Mr. Parlic leaned in closer to me. ''Are you very religious?'' he said.

I took that as my exit cue, and made my way across the clean lawn. From there it
was a seven-minute walk through town to my hotel. Hot pink stucco houses tumbled
down a country road, and a scattering of wire chicken coops backed up against
freshly laid brick sidewalks.

Around a bend lay Hotel Gracanica, Kosovo's first and only boutique hotel. All
right angles and clean lines of white terrazzo and Austrian pine, the hotel has
a monastic air unto itself. It was opened three years ago by Andreas Wormser, a
Swiss attaché who worked in the refugee section of the Swiss embassy in Kosovo
after the war.

He returned to Bern in 2004 but grew bored with the bureaucracy and came back to
Kosovo to invest. Mr. Wormser found local partners in Hisen Gashnjani, who had
worked as a translator at the embassy, and Atlan Gidjic, whom he'd met at a
concert in the town where Mr. Gidjic lives. ''We quickly became ''kucni
prijatelji,'' Mr. Gidjic told me, ''home friends.''

The partners had hoped for a rural location, but after two years searching the
treacherous market for a land permit (''It's never boring here,'' Mr. Wormser
told me), they compromised by laying out the hotel at the edge of town in a
slender ''L''; the 15 rooms line the length of the edifice, each with a single
wall of solid glass that looks out back onto quiet hills planted with corn, the
bluish outline of Kosovo's more dramatic mountain ranges -- the Accursed
Mountains -- hovering beyond. The airy tranquillity of the building, which
opened in 2013, evokes a kind of Balkan Grand Budapest Hotel with its hard-won
inoculation from the swirl of politics outside.

It seems hard to believe, but Hotel Gracanica is also one of the few multiethnic
businesses in Kosovo, where Albanian and Serb communities remain in de facto
segregation, and is perhaps the only hotel in the world with a majority Roma
management.

In late May, just shy of the summer season, I found myself the only diner in the
hotel restaurant on a Saturday night, its pine tables covered in bright
geometric textiles from a nearby town. In a short time I had before me a full
platter of meze in the Kosovar style, which is Turkish-inspired but distinctly
Balkan: ground chicken and beef kofte, mushrooms stuffed with carrot and crème
fraîche, hot peppers cooked in spicy yogurt, accompanied by a large disc of
pitarke bread, which is like pita but softer inside, and was clearly intended
for multiple diners though I finished it all myself without any problem. Ajvar,
a sweet red-pepper jam, brightens everything.

I wasn't surprised to learn that the hotel is not yet turning a profit. It
asserts its role as a community hub by hosting shows for local artists and
musicians, and its weekend brunch draws guests from Pristina's sizable expat
crowd (the European Union maintains a heavy presence in local governance).
British lawyers laze next to the pool as the afternoon sun arcs over the hills,
gossiping about recent convictions of Albanian mobsters and future postings to
Africa before heading back to Pristina, a 15-minute drive away.

Pristina has the beginnings of a tourism industry without the tourists, so to
speak. The recently renovated airport gleams with anticipation but remains low
in traffic, reflecting the euphoria that accompanied statehood eight years ago,
which has turned into frustration.

The city is a postwar boomtown of sorts, with luxury high-rises popping up in
every other neighborhood and cranes in primary colors punctuating the skyline.
Everyone seems to know but won't say what's driving the boom; Kosovo remains one
of the poorest countries in Europe, and corruption has helped keep it there.

Still, 70 percent of the population is under 35, and many corners of Pristina
rock with energy. On a weekend evening outside Dit e Nat, a bookstore of exposed
brick and reclaimed wood floors that is also a cafe and event space,
30-somethings stood on a patch of gravel drinking Birra Prishtina and smoking
Winstons while a Romany rock group performed. A man in Breton stripes introduced
himself as an anarchist, despite, or perhaps because of, his being employed by
the Interior Ministry. Women in chambray and lipstick the color of a Bic Lady
razor browsed shelves displaying Salman Rushdie's ''The Satanic Verses'' in
Albanian, and a friend handed me a thimble-sized plastic cup spilling over with
plum raki, the local brandy, which I sipped, with a choke.

Back at Hotel Gracanica, the staff helped arrange for a Serb driver to pick me
up at six o'clock on Sunday morning. We drove across the Kosovo plain, through
the early morning shadows, toward the Visoki Decani monastery, reputedly one of
the most beautiful places in the western Balkans.

The monasteries have been viewed as symbols of Serbian oppression during moments
of tension, and have been the target of protests. Outside the town we slalomed
between brightly striated roadblocks that led to a checkpoint, where Italian
marines, remnants of the NATO forces during the war, photographed our license
plate before letting us inside the property.

The monastery grounds are carved into the slope of a chestnut forest. Except for
the trill of a few blackbirds, a stunning silence encircles the church, its
facade of alternating lavender marble and straw-colored onyx fusing into a
bright white in the sun. Decani, which was completed around 1335, is a livelier
monastery than Gracanica, and the Decani monks have a reputation for their
hospitality and their affinity for social media -- they constantly update their
Facebook page with photos of the concerts and lunches they organize for
visitors.

The Decani monks are also known for their magnificent chanting. On Sunday
morning the church's nave, cool and damp and smelling lightly of incense, fills
with the clear harmonies of the monks' voices during an hourlong liturgy, the
textures expanding into diminished chords before resolving into the consensus of
unison. Among the hundreds of darkened frescoes, strips of light from a few
high-placed windows irradiate the face of the Madonna, her mystical gaze
inviting the worshiper to trust that what is unknowable to the human mind might
be experienced through the ecstasy of the spirit.

Afterward, while visitors sipped raki, I spoke with Father Sava Janjic, the
abbot of Decani. Father Sava is known for his humanist views -- he has been
criticized by Serb nationalists for helping Albanians during the war, and by
Albanian nationalists for his firm stance on protecting Decani and other
Orthodox sites. He is also known for emphatically expressing these views on
Twitter, which has earned him the title of ''cyber monk.'' He served me sweet
apple juice from the monastery orchard.

''We happen to be something different, which doesn't fit into someone's
political and historical narrative,'' Father Sava told me, his face framed by a
halo of frizzy blond hair, his expression soft except when he hit on a
particularly urgent thought. The day before, the church had won a 16-year
lawsuit over ownership of the property. ''Unfortunately there seem to be some
people who believe that they have to change history and everything in the
nation-building process,'' he said. ''But I always say the identity of these
places has to be understood in layers.''

The drive back to Hotel Gracanica took me past a construction lot promising
''luxury living'' at something called the Diamond Residence, and a BMW
dealership that had been erected next to a junkyard. The country seemed to be
barreling ahead in its rush to cover up the old layers with new ones. Maybe, it
occurred to me, that's not the only way.

IF YOU GO

Hotel Gracanica (Ul. Dragana Ristica, Gracanica, Kosovo; hotelgracanica.com).
Prices range from 50 euros for a single room to 130 euros for a small studio
($56 to $145). In the hotel's restaurant, the Saturday night meze platter is
8.50 euros, and Sunday brunch is 10 euros.

Visoki Decani Monastery To arrange a visit contact the monastery through its
Facebook page: facebook.com/Decani.Manastir. Or email: v.decani@gmail.com

To tour Gracanica Monastery, email info@kosovoguide.com or call 38-166-800-5522.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/18/travel/the-medieval-monasteries-of-kosovo.html

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At left, Gracanica Monastery on the outskirts of Pristina
its interior, below left, is illuminated by frescoes from the early 14th
century.
Above, the countryside on the drive to the Visoki Decani Monastery
 below, the roof lines at Decani and a view of the interior. Bottom, the pool at
Hotel Gracanica and Dit e Nat, a bookstore and cafe in Pristina. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
DANIELLE VILLASANA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                          September 21, 2016 Wednesday

Can Bots Fight Bullying?

BYLINE: ANNA NORTH

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 418 words



HIGHLIGHT: Tech companies are experimenting with tools that use artificial
intelligence to spot online harassment.


If a teenager gets bullied on social media, it's usually up to her to report the
incident. But one day, an automated tool might spot the harassment, ask her if
she needs help, tell a moderator to step in on her behalf or notify her parents.

While rudimentary filters for bad language have existed for years, tech
companies and others are experimenting with tools that use machine learning,
crunching through huge numbers of online interactions to "train" themselves to
identify bullying.

The Google subsidiary Jigsaw has developed a tool called Conversation AI, which
uses machine learning to identify harassment. Jigsaw trained the tool with the
help of institutions, including The New York Times, which provided 17 million
reader comments from The Times's website along with decisions that moderators
had made about whether to accept or reject them. Analyzing comments that
moderators had flagged as abusive helped Conversation AI improve.

Mary Aiken, a cyber security expert, proposes a similar approach in her new book
"The Cyber Effect." She hopes to create a database of user-submitted examples of
harassment that can be used to develop an anti-bullying tool.

A number of other researchers and companies, including SRI International, which
created Siri, have explored machine-learning responses to online harassment in
recent years.

These efforts have the potential to change the way social networks and other
technology and media companies handle harassment. Bullying is difficult to
identify in part because the same phrase can be insulting in one context and
affectionate in another, said Norman Winarsky, the former president of SRI's
ventures group. But by analyzing millions or billions of conversations, new
tools could begin to identify patterns that distinguish innocent comments from
harassment.

The technology isn't foolproof. When Andy Greenberg at Wired tested Conversation
AI with a real example of harassment directed at another writer, the tool rated
the obvious threat as fairly benign.

While AI tools are likely to improve over time, humans will probably always need
to monitor them for accuracy and make the final decision in difficult cases.
Companies that use the tools will have to ensure that their users consent to
having their interactions monitored by a computer program. Identifying
harassment, of course, is only the first step to protecting users of social
networks. Just as important is how quickly the companies respond to acts of
harassment once their tools spot that behavior.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      September 23, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

What the Hacking at Yahoo Means for Verizon

BYLINE: DAVID GELLES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1296 words



HIGHLIGHT: Questions swirl about whether Verizon's $4.8 billion deal for Yahoo's
core business will be renegotiated, or happen at all.


It was the kind of phone call no chief executive wants to make -- or receive --
in the middle of a multibillion-dollar deal.

On Tuesday, Lowell McAdam, the head of Verizon Communications, was on the road.
Marissa Mayer, the chief executive of Yahoo, was at work in Silicon Valley.
Executives at both companies were moving forward on Verizon's $4.8 billion
acquisition of Yahoo's core business.

But Ms. Mayer had some unexpected bad news. She caught up with Mr. McAdam and
Marni Walden, a rising star at Verizon who is expected to oversee the Yahoo
business after the deal is complete, by phone, according to people briefed on
the call, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

Yahoo recently discovered that at least 500 million of its user accounts had
been breached by hackers two years ago, well before the two companies began
talks. Yahoo and law enforcement officials were scrambling to unwind the
intrusion.

After calling Mr. McAdam and Ms. Walden, Ms. Mayer phoned Tim Armstrong, who
leads the AOL business at Verizon and will be overseeing the integration with
Yahoo, according to the people briefed on the conversation. Again, the news was
not good.

The calls set off a flurry of questions at Verizon -- How could this possibly
have happened? Who was behind it? Why is it only becoming known now? Could this
jeopardize the deal? -- but also the sounding of an alarm and the deployment of
a triage team to assist Yahoo.

The telecom giant directed its online security experts, including Chandra
McMahon, Verizon's chief information security officer, to do their own
investigation of the hack. And they enlisted the help of Verizon's security
division, part of its enterprise solutions business, which helps companies
defend against and manage hacks.

Now, just a few days after Verizon learned of the breach, it is contending with
the ramifications of what is believed to be the largest hack of a single
company. Even as Verizon tries to assess the damage at Yahoo and prevent further
security intrusions, the scope of the hack and the potential fallout --
including the possibility of a costly class-action lawsuit -- are inevitably
prompting renewed scrutiny of a deal that was intended to transform the telecom
behemoth into a digital media powerhouse.

For now, Verizon has given no indication of whether the breach will affect its
plans to acquire Yahoo. On Friday, the company declined to provide a comment
beyond a statement it issued on Thursday, in which it said it would evaluate the
situation "as the investigation continues through the lens of overall Verizon
interests, including consumers, customers, shareholders and related
communities."

On Friday, Yahoo said, "Our investigation into this matter is ongoing and the
issues are complex."

The effort is complicated because the sales proceedings between Verizon and
Yahoo are at an early stage. Though teams from the two companies were already
working together on integration plans, Verizon does not yet own Yahoo. As a
result, Verizon does not have direct access to the Silicon Valley company's
servers to conduct its own investigation.

In late July, after the Verizon deal was announced, Yahoo became aware of a
claim that about 280 million of its user credentials had been hacked, according
to a person briefed on the specifics, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Yahoo started an investigation but could not substantiate the claim, this person
said. It was not clear on Friday whether Yahoo had made Verizon aware that it
was looking into this claim in July.

During the course of that investigation, Yahoo learned of the more severe
breach, which it has said it believes was state-sponsored. Yahoo has not yet
said exactly when it realized how large the intrusion was, leaving open the
question of whether Ms. Mayer and her team waited to notify Verizon of the hack.
Yahoo is now working with outside security consultants and said its
investigation was continuing.

Brian Quinn, an associate professor at Boston College Law School, said Verizon
had two main options if it decided to use the hack as leverage in setting the
terms of the deal.

"They could say, 'This thing is huge. We want to walk away from the
transaction,'" he said. Were Verizon to try to claim that the breach was so
severe it was grounds to terminate the deal, it would have to prove that the
hack amounted to a material adverse effect on the value of Yahoo.

Such claims can be difficult to prove in court. According to Mr. Quinn's reading
of the merger document for the deal, Verizon would most likely have to prove
that certain high-level Yahoo employees were aware of the severity of the hack
before the deal was agreed upon, and intentionally withheld that information.

In the merger agreement, Yahoo states that "there have not been any incidents
of, or third-party claims alleging" security breaches or thefts of user data
that might result in a major change to the value of the company.

More likely, Mr. Quinn said, Verizon could pressure Yahoo to renegotiate the
terms of the deal.

"They go to court, or threaten to go to court, and renegotiate the price," he
said. "That can be a very winning strategy."

Like any big company contemplating an acquisition, Verizon performed due
diligence on Yahoo before it agreed to the deal. It was not immediately clear,
however, how seriously it took security issues during that process.

But Verizon would have known that Yahoo has a history of breaches. In 2012,
Yahoo said that more than 450,000 user accounts had been hacked.

Such issues are increasingly pertinent to mergers and acquisitions. In a 2014
report, lawyers from Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer wrote that corporate buyers
were still not taking security due diligence seriously enough.

"With this concerted action and a series of high-profile strikes on businesses
including eBay, Target and Yahoo, the risks of cyberattack are evident," they
wrote.

"Yet as the global economy recovers and deal activity rises," the report
continues, "increasing awareness of cyber-risk has not resulted in meaningful
changes" to the mergers and acquisition process.

Verizon is purchasing Yahoo in the hope that the internet portal will make it a
major player in the digital media business, positioning the company to compete
with Google and Facebook for ad dollars. The biggest wireless carrier in the
United States, with roots going back to the first telephone call in history,
Verizon is facing declining revenue and is looking to Silicon Valley for growth.

Those motivations are unlikely to have changed in the course of two months. But
it remains unclear whether this new information has made Yahoo a less desirable
acquisition target.

Some of Verizon's executives have indicated they may be up to the challenge of a
big hack. In a recent talk at Penn State University, Ms. McMahon, the telecom
company's chief information security officer, suggested that she relished the
cat-and-mouse game between hackers and companies.

"I love security," she said. "I love the offense and the defense of it. The bad
guys are innovating just as much as the good guys in terms of their defense. Our
job as defenders is to see all that."

PHOTOS: MARISSA MAYER: Chief executive, Yahoo; LOWELL MCADAM: Chief executive,
Verizon; TIM ARMSTRONG: Head of AOL business at Verizon; MARNI WALDEN: Expected
to oversee Yahoo after merger (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS; GETTY IMAGES);
The Yahoo campus in Sunnyvale, Calif. The company revealed this week that the
data of at least a half-billion of its users was stolen by hackers in 2014.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER/REUTERS)

Related Articles


     ·    Hackers Trawl User Data in Hopes a Small Target Will Lead to a Big One
     ·    Yahoo Says Hackers Stole Data on 500 Million Users in 2014
     ·    Email Hack Details Movements of Joe Biden, Michelle Obama and Hillary
          Clinton


LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (News)

                           September 23, 2016 Friday

What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

LENGTH: 381 words



HIGHLIGHT: Get recommendations from New York Times reporters and editors,
highlighting great stories from around the web. Today, great reads from Alissa
J. Rubin, Kim Severson and others.


 Get recommendations from New York Times reporters and editors, highlighting
great stories from around the web. What We're Reading emails are sent twice a
week. Sign up »

Vanity Fair

Denizens of the Dark Net

This is a compelling and terrifying glimpse into the world of cyber hackers -
really good ones. Written by the great investigative journalist William
Langewiesche before the giant Yahoo breach was revealed, it plumbs the mysteries
of the web's vast unknowns. - Alissa J. Rubin

Whitehouse.gov

'We Can All Play Together'

Like most of us, an American boy named Alex was moved by the image of Omran
Daqneesh, the Syrian 5-year-old who sat, dazed, in an orange hospital chair
after an airstrike, his face covered in dust and blood. Alex, 6, wrote a letter
to President Obama asking him to send Omran to Alex's home. "We will give him a
family, and he will be our brother," Alex wrote. "We can all play together. ...
I will share my bike and I will teach him how to ride it." A White House video
of Alex reading his letter has reached millions of people, including the
president. - John Schwartz

The Washington Post Magazine

History, Piece by Piece

The Smithsonian's National Museum of African American History and Culture will
open in Washington this weekend. This story, in a commemorative issue of The
Washington Post Magazine, follows the fascinating journey of just one item in
the museum's vast collection - a skirt worn by a young girl enslaved in Virginia
- from acquisition to installation. - Gina Lamb

Irish Times

Head-on Collusion

Assassinations directed by the British intelligence services in Northern Ireland
during the 1980s are the subject of this chilling book excerpt from Ian Cobain,
an investigative journalist with The Guardian. He documents the activities of
the Force Research Unit, the banal name for an arm of the British government
that helped front-line terrorists murder Catholics and republicans during the
Dirty War. - Jim Dwyer

The Hairpin

Why Ma Did It

Unless you have a child and have read Laura Ingalls Wilder's work, you may not
think you care about why Ma forced Laura to give away her rag doll. But this
essay by an English professor, Sarah Blackwood, offers a sublime and layered
explanation, and I promise it will make you a better parent. - Kim Severson

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 24, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Into the Breach

BYLINE: By DAVID GELLES

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1194 words


It was the kind of phone call no chief executive wants to make -- or receive --
in the middle of a multibillion-dollar deal.

On Tuesday, Lowell McAdam, the head of Verizon Communications, was on the road.
Marissa Mayer, the chief executive of Yahoo, was at work in Silicon Valley.
Executives at both companies were moving forward on Verizon's $4.8 billion
acquisition of Yahoo's core business.

But Ms. Mayer had some unexpected bad news. She caught up with Mr. McAdam and
Marni Walden, a rising star at Verizon who is expected to oversee the Yahoo
business after the deal is complete, by phone, according to people briefed on
the call, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

Yahoo recently discovered that at least 500 million of its user accounts had
been breached by hackers two years ago, well before the two companies began
talks. Yahoo and law enforcement officials were scrambling to unwind the
intrusion.

After calling Mr. McAdam and Ms. Walden, Ms. Mayer phoned Tim Armstrong, who
leads the AOL business at Verizon and will be overseeing the integration with
Yahoo, according to the people briefed on the conversation. Again, the news was
not good.

The calls set off a flurry of questions at Verizon -- How could this possibly
have happened? Who was behind it? Why is it only becoming known now? Could this
jeopardize the deal? -- but also the sounding of an alarm and the deployment of
a triage team to assist Yahoo.

The telecom giant directed its online security experts, including Chandra
McMahon, Verizon's chief information security officer, to do their own
investigation of the hack. And they enlisted the help of Verizon's security
division, part of its enterprise solutions business, which helps companies
defend against and manage hacks.

Now, just a few days after Verizon learned of the breach, it is contending with
the ramifications of what is believed to be the largest hack of a single
company. Even as Verizon tries to assess the damage at Yahoo and prevent further
security intrusions, the scope of the hack and the potential fallout --
including the possibility of a costly class-action lawsuit -- are inevitably
prompting renewed scrutiny of a deal that was intended to transform the telecom
behemoth into a digital media powerhouse.

For now, Verizon has given no indication of whether the breach will affect its
plans to acquire Yahoo. On Friday, the company declined to provide a comment
beyond a statement it issued on Thursday, in which it said it would evaluate the
situation ''as the investigation continues through the lens of overall Verizon
interests, including consumers, customers, shareholders and related
communities.''

Yahoo declined to provide further comment on Friday.

The effort is complicated because the sales proceedings between Verizon and
Yahoo are at an early stage. Though teams from the two companies were already
working together on integration plans, Verizon does not yet own Yahoo. As a
result, Verizon does not have direct access to the Silicon Valley company's
servers to conduct its own investigation.

In late July, after the Verizon deal was announced, Yahoo became aware of a
claim that about 280 million of its user credentials had been hacked, according
to a person briefed on the specifics, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Yahoo started an investigation but could not substantiate the claim, this person
said. It was not clear on Friday whether Yahoo had made Verizon aware that it
was looking into this claim in July.

During the course of that investigation, Yahoo learned of the more severe
breach, which it has said it believes was state-sponsored. Yahoo has not yet
said exactly when it realized how large the intrusion was, leaving open the
question of whether Ms. Mayer and her team waited to notify Verizon of the hack.
Yahoo is now working with outside security consultants and said its
investigation was continuing.

Brian Quinn, an associate professor at Boston College Law School, said Verizon
had two main options if it decided to use the hack as leverage in setting the
terms of the deal.

''They could say, 'This thing is huge. We want to walk away from the
transaction,''' he said. Were Verizon to try to claim that the breach was so
severe it was grounds to terminate the deal, it would have to prove that the
hack amounted to a material adverse effect on the value of Yahoo.

Such claims can be difficult to prove in court. According to Mr. Quinn's reading
of the merger document for the deal, Verizon would most likely have to prove
that certain high-level Yahoo employees were aware of the severity of the hack
before the deal was agreed upon, and intentionally withheld that information.

In the merger agreement, Yahoo states that ''there have not been any incidents
of, or third-party claims alleging'' security breaches or thefts of user data
that might result in a major change to the value of the company.

More likely, Mr. Quinn said, Verizon could pressure Yahoo to renegotiate the
terms of the deal.

''They go to court, or threaten to go to court, and renegotiate the price,'' he
said. ''That can be a very winning strategy.''

Like any big company contemplating an acquisition, Verizon performed due
diligence on Yahoo before it agreed to the deal. It was not immediately clear,
however, how seriously it took security issues during that process.

But Verizon would have known that Yahoo has a history of breaches. In 2012,
Yahoo said that more than 450,000 user accounts had been hacked.

Such issues are increasingly pertinent to mergers and acquisitions. In a 2014
report, lawyers from Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer wrote that corporate buyers
were still not taking security due diligence seriously enough.

''With this concerted action and a series of high-profile strikes on businesses
including eBay, Target and Yahoo, the risks of cyberattack are evident,'' they
wrote.

''Yet as the global economy recovers and deal activity rises,'' the report
continues, ''increasing awareness of cyber-risk has not resulted in meaningful
changes'' to the mergers and acquisition process.

Verizon is purchasing Yahoo in the hope that the internet portal will make it a
major player in the digital media business, positioning the company to compete
with Google and Facebook for ad dollars. The biggest wireless carrier in the
United States, with roots going back to the first telephone call in history,
Verizon is facing declining revenue and is looking to Silicon Valley for growth.

Those motivations are unlikely to have changed in the course of two months. But
it remains unclear whether this new information has made Yahoo a less desirable
acquisition target.

Some of Verizon's executives have indicated they may be up to the challenge of a
big hack. In a recent talk at Penn State University, Ms. McMahon, the telecom
company's chief information security officer, suggested that she relished the
cat-and-mouse game between hackers and companies.

''I love security,''  she said. ''I love the offense and the defense of it. The
bad guys are innovating just as much as the good guys in terms of their defense.
Our job as defenders is to see all that.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/24/technology/yahoo-hack-verizon.html

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MARISSA MAYER: Chief executive, Yahoo
LOWELL MCADAM: Chief executive, Verizon
TIM ARMSTRONG: Head of AOL business at Verizon
MARNI WALDEN: Expected to oversee Yahoo after merger (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASSOCIATED
PRESS
GETTY IMAGES)
 The Yahoo campus in Sunnyvale, Calif. The company revealed this week that the
data of at least a half-billion of its users was stolen by hackers in 2014.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 25, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Letters to the Editor

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1064 words


Hard to Bear

To the Editor:

I am writing in response to Rachel Cusk's review of ''Avalanche,'' by Julia
Leigh, and ''The Art of Waiting,'' by Belle Boggs (Sept. 4).

For nearly 40 years the majority of reports and books on in vitro fertilization
(I.V.F.) have focused on the minority outcome. I.V.F. cycles more often end not
with a baby but with failure. The hope that science can outsmart Mother Nature
is what keeps people coming back for increasingly invasive, even experimental
treatments. The fertility industry continues to grow without regulation or
consumer protections. Side effects to medications (many used off label) are
glossed over. Statistics are generalized.

Against this backdrop it takes great courage for women to share deeply personal
stories of the losses and trauma caused by failed I.V.F. For this reason, Julia
Leigh's account of trying to conceive is an especially important contribution.
Rather than an educated and thoughtful appraisal, Cusk's review was dismissive
and tone deaf. It managed to offend and invalidate not only Leigh but many of us
who have attempted I.V.F.

This was a lost opportunity to open up a larger discussion. Your readers deserve
better.

PAMELA MAHONEY TSIGDINOS

LOS GATOS, CALIF.

â¬¥

To the Editor:

Rachel Cusk, in her informative review of ''Avalanche'' and ''The Art of
Waiting,'' correctly points out that a woman may become so focused on the desire
to have a biological child that it takes over her life. She rightly notes the
potential for terrible difficulty. Cusk states, however, that the all-consuming
desire to become a mother resembles the ''inward obstinacy of personal will.''
As a clinical psychologist specializing in working with both infertile women and
new mothers, I find Cusk's characterization insensitive toward women pursuing
infertility treatment. She also faults the infertile woman for being
unambivalent about the tension between personal autonomy and motherhood; the
infertile woman's lack of ambivalence, however, is Â­not a fault, but a side
effect of Â­the problem she faces.

HANNAH HAHN

NEW YORK

â¬¥

To the Editor:

The opening eight or so paragraphs of Rachel Cusk's review are among the finest
I have ever read. No matter what interest one may or may not have in the books
she is discussing, there is great pleasure to be had in just reading what she
has written. Book reviews as literature are underappreciated.

JIM LANGE

THORNTON, PA.

â¬¥

Darkening Skies

To the Editor:

In his review of Mary Aiken's ''The Cyber Effect'' (Sept. 11), Jon Ronson is
skeptical and ultimately dismissive of what Aiken sees as the problematic,
sometimes dangerous effects of our use of new technologies and online media. To
Ronson, Aiken's depiction of these phenomena is frequently ''overblown'' and
''creates hysteria.''

But Ronson invites a reader to be skeptical of his own argument as, time after
time, he cites Aiken's evidence of disturbing human thought and behavior in the
digital age only to suggest that she calm down and stop being such a moralistic
technophobe. And he reveals just how far he'll stretch to delegitimize Aiken's
alarm when he mentions her reference to a ''10-year-old boy showing his school
friends a picture of his topless 'very young girlfriend.' '' Ronson acknowledges
this is ''troubling,'' but differs with Aiken about exactly how terrible or
indicative of future pathologies it is when, in his words, a ''middle schooler''
shares pictures of ''his middle-school girlfriend'' with his peers.

Setting aside the casual acceptance of the term ''girlfriend'' for kids this age
(and the possessive ''his''), as well as the unspecified actions that would have
to precede a boy sharing said picture in the first place -- a ''middle
schooler'' is much more likely to be in the early teens than the decidedly more
Â­elementary-school age of 10. So why is Ronson implying that this boy and girl
are anything other than children, and why minimize this example of potentially
significant and harmful change?

The sky is not falling, true, but it may be darkening, even if just a little.
And saying so is no less irrational than shrugging it all off in the guise of
seen-it-all sophistication.

MARCO CALAVITA

ROHNERT PARK, CALIF.

The writer is a professor of communication studies at Sonoma State University.

â¬¥

The Clocks Were Striking 13

To the Editor:

Daniel Silva (By the Book, Sept.â[#x20ac]¯4) names ''1984'' as a favorite book,
a worthy choice. But he is wrong when he says he's never read fantasy or been
drawn to science fiction. What is ''1984'' if not a brilliant, prophetic and
profoundly alarming example of fantasy/sci-fi?

ELLEN J. REIFLER

SWAMPSCOTT, MASS.

â¬¥

A Late Start

To the Editor:

Absorbing the assumptions of Leslie Jamison's statement that ''debut novelists
can prove intoxicating in shallow ways -- by virtue of their youth and
precocity'' (Bookends, Sept. 4), my mind executed a strange sideways association
-- to the actor Sydney Greenstreet, whose film debut as Kasper Gutman in ''The
Maltese Falcon'' remains indelible. His big expository scene, explaining to
Humphrey Bogart's Sam Spade the complicated history of the falcon statuette,
would probably not be filmed today. A fat man, seated in a plush hotel room
chair, smoking a cigar, sipping brandy, and going on for several action-free
minutes about the jewel-Â­encrusted treasure? But I've probably seen this scene
a hundred times without getting sick of it. This film made Greenstreet a movie
star. At age 62.

My point? Where is it written that a first novelist, any more than a film actor,
has to be young? Or precocious? Writing isn't gymnastics or championship figure
skating. A mature writer can bring a far wider frame of reference, as well as
many years of hard-earned wisdom and acquired skills, to the task of forging a
novel.

DAVID ENGLISH

SOMERVILLE, MASS.

â¬¥

The Book Review wants to hear from readers. Letters for publication should
include the writer's name, address and telephone number. Please address them to
books@nytimes or to The Editor, The New York Times Book Review, 620 Eighth
Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. Comments may also be posted on the Book Review's
Facebook page.

Letters may be edited for length and clarity. We regret that we are unable to
acknowledge letters.

Information about subscriptions and submitting books for review may be found
here.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/25/books/review/letters-to-the-editor.html

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                           September 26, 2016 Monday

What It's Like to Fight Online Hate

BYLINE: ANNA NORTH

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 930 words



HIGHLIGHT: When the Anti-Defamation League hired Brittan Heller to work with
tech companies against harassment, she was deluged with online attacks.


Brittan Heller has a hard job. The Anti-Defamation League's first director of
technology and society, she'll be working with tech companies to combat online
harassment. The magnitude of her task became clear as soon as the A.D.L.
announced her hire, when she was deluged with anti-Semitic and sexist attacks.
In a recent interview, Ms. Heller talked about what companies can do to stop
online abuse and how her personal experiences have informed her, and offered
advice for others dealing with harassment online.

How did the Anti-Defamation League decide they needed to hire someone to work
with tech companies against harassment?

People wanted a focus on tech and combating online hate for years, but recently
there's been an increase in online hate. A good personal example of this is that
they put out a press release announcing my position and they made an
announcement on Twitter as well. Within minutes of A.D.L. announcing this
position, I opened up my Twitter feed and I found hateful symbols, I found
echoes and swastikas and green frogs and people discussing my death. Within
hours it became enhanced with statements of Holocaust denial, and within days
it's become ad hominem attacks based on Jewish stereotypes and misogyny. At this
point it's not surprising anymore that this occurs, but the speed of it, and the
ferocity of it - that I think is shocking.

There were two events that people at A.D.L. really took notice of. There was
Julia Ioffe's piece about Melania Trump, that resulted in an online and offline
campaign of hatred directed against her, and there was a coordinated campaign by
white supremacist groups which resulted in death threats and really severe
online abuse. Additionally, Jonathan Weisman of The New York Times tweeted a
piece about the election and he got similar threats and online abuse. A.D.L. was
very concerned that this kind of toxic environment would prompt self-censorship
by journalists and really impact public discourse long after the election.

How much is the Trump campaign to blame for the recent rise in online
harassment?

A.D.L. is a nonprofit organization, therefore we do not support any particular
political party and we do not endorse or reject candidates for office. That
said, A.D.L.'s work encompasses fighting bigotry of all kinds, and we encourage
all candidates to call out hate. We've been on record engaging with members of
the Trump campaign, trying to encourage them to emphasize that hate has no place
in the public sphere.

What are social networks already doing to fight harassment? What could they be
doing better?

A.D.L. is actually an inaugural member of the Twitter Trust and Safety Council
which looks at issues of cyber hate. A.D.L. issued best practices that were
supposed to counter online hate in 2014 and they were endorsed by Facebook and
Google and Microsoft and Twitter.

I've seen an increased emphasis on companies developing technology that helps to
identify greater percentages of problematic content proactively, but I think the
problem there is the mind-boggling volume. It's not really realistic to assume
that a filter or artificial intelligence would be able to review and eliminate
hate in real time.

I think there's a few things the companies can do when they're faced with this
onslaught. First they need to communicate outrage. They have a corporate voice,
and they can use this to say that cyber hate is really contrary to their vision
of connecting all people. They can ensure that their terms of service and their
community guidelines are clear, and more than this they can really improve
enforcement and do it transparently. They can offer simplified and user-friendly
mechanisms for flagging this content. Going beyond companies, people in Silicon
Valley and beyond can promote counter-speech initiatives, grassroots responses
or having public persons who are willing to speak out and be a voice for
tolerance.

You experienced online harassment in law school. How did your personal
experience shape your thinking on this issue?

It was instrumental in making me realize that this issue should be a priority.
The reason I went to law school is that I wanted to focus on accountability for
crimes that targeted people based on their race or their ethnicity or their
gender. When I became a victim of cyber harassment, I really felt what it was
like to be targeted online for my gender and my race and my ethnicity, and more
than that I felt how terrifying it can feel to be threatened and how powerless
this type of abuse can make you feel, especially when it's coming from anonymous
sources.

What advice would you give to people who are going through online harassment?

First, I'd say you're not alone. Part of the power that the harassers have is
they like to make people feel isolated, and sometimes part of the ongoing harm
of these kind of crimes is that you feel like there's no meaningful way for you
to fight back, there's no way for you to adequately speak out against what's
happening to you.

I would not let the harassment take your voice away. You can talk to family,
teachers and friends about what you're experiencing and what you've seen. You
can be a support for other people experiencing the same thing, and you can call
out people who are trying to incite hate online. Also, educate yourself. Look at
the terms of service or community guidelines for the type of platforms and
social media that you're using, and find out what kind of site that company
wants to run. Most say that they don't wish to host hateful content.

This interview has been condensed and edited.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 27, 2016 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Transcript of the First Debate

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Politics; Pg.

LENGTH: 15239 words


Following is a transcript of the first presidential debate on Monday, as
transcribed by the Federal News Service.

HOLT: Good evening from Hofstra University in Hempstead, New York. I'm Lester
Holt, anchor of ''NBC Nightly News.'' I want to welcome you to the first
presidential debate.

The participants tonight are Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton. This debate is
sponsored by the Commission on Presidential Debates, a nonpartisan, nonprofit
organization. The commission drafted tonight's format, and the rules have been
agreed to by the campaigns.

The 90-minute debate is divided into six segments, each 15 minutes long. We'll
explore three topic areas tonight: Achieving prosperity; America's direction;
and securing America. At the start of each segment, I will ask the same lead-off
question to both candidates, and they will each have up to two minutes to
respond. From that point until the end of the segment, we'll have an open
discussion.

The questions are mine and have not been shared with the commission or the
campaigns. The audience here in the room has agreed to remain silent so that we
can focus on what the candidates are saying.

I will invite you to applaud, however, at this moment, as we welcome the
candidates: Democratic nominee for president of the United States, Hillary
Clinton, and Republican nominee for president of the United States, Donald J.
Trump.

(APPLAUSE)

CLINTON: How are you, Donald?

(APPLAUSE)

HOLT: Good luck to you.

(APPLAUSE)

Well, I don't expect us to cover all the issues of this campaign tonight, but I
remind everyone, there are two more presidential debates scheduled. We are going
to focus on many of the issues that voters tell us are most important, and we're
going to press for specifics. I am honored to have this role, but this evening
belongs to the candidates and, just as important, to the American people.

Candidates, we look forward to hearing you articulate your policies and your
positions, as well as your visions and your values. So, let's begin.

We're calling this opening segment ''Achieving Prosperity.'' And central to that
is jobs. There are two economic realities in America today. There's been a
record six straight years of job growth, and new census numbers show incomes
have increased at a record rate after years of stagnation. However, income
inequality remains significant, and nearly half of Americans are living paycheck
to paycheck.

Beginning with you, Secretary Clinton, why are you a better choice than your
opponent to create the kinds of jobs that will put more money into the pockets
of American works?

CLINTON: Well, thank you, Lester, and thanks to Hofstra for hosting us.

The central question in this election is really what kind of country we want to
be and what kind of future we'll build together. Today is my granddaughter's
second birthday, so I think about this a lot. First, we have to build an economy
that works for everyone, not just those at the top. That means we need new jobs,
good jobs, with rising incomes.

I want us to invest in you. I want us to invest in your future. That means jobs
in infrastructure, in advanced manufacturing, innovation and technology, clean,
renewable energy, and small business, because most of the new jobs will come
from small business. We also have to make the economy fairer. That starts with
raising the national minimum wage and also guarantee, finally, equal pay for
women's work.

CLINTON: I also want to see more companies do profit-sharing. If you help create
the profits, you should be able to share in them, not just the executives at the
top.

And I want us to do more to support people who are struggling to balance family
and work. I've heard from so many of you about the difficult choices you face
and the stresses that you're under. So let's have paid family leave, earned sick
days. Let's be sure we have affordable child care and debt-free college.

How are we going to do it? We're going to do it by having the wealthy pay their
fair share and close the corporate loopholes.

Finally, we tonight are on the stage together, Donald Trump and I. Donald, it's
good to be with you. We're going to have a debate where we are talking about the
important issues facing our country. You have to judge us, who can shoulder the
immense, awesome responsibilities of the presidency, who can put into action the
plans that will make your life better. I hope that I will be able to earn your
vote on November 8th.

HOLT: Secretary Clinton, thank you.

Mr. Trump, the same question to you. It's about putting money -- more money into
the pockets of American workers. You have up to two minutes.

TRUMP: Thank you, Lester. Our jobs are fleeing the country. They're going to
Mexico. They're going to many other countries. You look at what China is doing
to our country in terms of making our product. They're devaluing their currency,
and there's nobody in our government to fight them. And we have a very good
fight. And we have a winning fight. Because they're using our country as a piggy
bank to rebuild China, and many other countries are doing the same thing.

So we're losing our good jobs, so many of them. When you look at what's
happening in Mexico, a friend of mine who builds plants said it's the eighth
wonder of the world. They're building some of the biggest plants anywhere in the
world, some of the most sophisticated, some of the best plants. With the United
States, as he said, not so much.

So Ford is leaving. You see that, their small car division leaving. Thousands of
jobs leaving Michigan, leaving Ohio. They're all leaving. And we can't allow it
to happen anymore. As far as child care is concerned and so many other things, I
think Hillary and I agree on that. We probably disagree a little bit as to
numbers and amounts and what we're going to do, but perhaps we'll be talking
about that later.

But we have to stop our jobs from being stolen from us. We have to stop our
companies from leaving the United States and, with it, firing all of their
people. All you have to do is take a look at Carrier air conditioning in
Indianapolis. They left -- fired 1,400 people. They're going to Mexico. So many
hundreds and hundreds of companies are doing this.

TRUMP: We cannot let it happen. Under my plan, I'll be reducing taxes
tremendously, from 35 percent to 15 percent for companies, small and big
businesses. That's going to be a job creator like we haven't seen since Ronald
Reagan. It's going to be a beautiful thing to watch.

Companies will come. They will build. They will expand. New companies will
start. And I look very, very much forward to doing it. We have to renegotiate
our trade deals, and we have to stop these countries from stealing our companies
and our jobs.

HOLT: Secretary Clinton, would you like to respond?

CLINTON: Well, I think that trade is an important issue. Of course, we are 5
percent of the world's population; we have to trade with the other 95 percent.
And we need to have smart, fair trade deals.

We also, though, need to have a tax system that rewards work and not just
financial transactions. And the kind of plan that Donald has put forth would be
trickle-down economics all over again. In fact, it would be the most extreme
version, the biggest tax cuts for the top percent of the people in this country
than we've ever had.

I call it trumped-up trickle-down, because that's exactly what it would be. That
is not how we grow the economy.

We just have a different view about what's best for growing the economy, how we
make investments that will actually produce jobs and rising incomes.

I think we come at it from somewhat different perspectives. I understand that.
You know, Donald was very fortunate in his life, and that's all to his benefit.
He started his business with $14 million, borrowed from his father, and he
really believes that the more you help wealthy people, the better off we'll be
and that everything will work out from there.

I don't buy that. I have a different experience. My father was a
small-businessman. He worked really hard. He printed drapery fabrics on long
tables, where he pulled out those fabrics and he went down with a silkscreen and
dumped the paint in and took the squeegee and kept going.

And so what I believe is the more we can do for the middle class, the more we
can invest in you, your education, your skills, your future, the better we will
be off and the better we'll grow. That's the kind of economy I want us to see
again. HOLT: Let me follow up with Mr. Trump, if you can. You've talked about
creating 25 million jobs, and you've promised to bring back millions of jobs for
Americans. How are you going to bring back the industries that have left this
country for cheaper labor overseas? How, specifically, are you going to tell
American manufacturers that you have to come back?

TRUMP: Well, for one thing -- and before we start on that -- my father gave me a
very small loan in 1975, and I built it into a company that's worth many, many
billions of dollars, with some of the greatest assets in the world, and I say
that only because that's the kind of thinking that our country needs.

Our country's in deep trouble. We don't know what we're doing when it comes to
devaluations and all of these countries all over the world, especially China.
They're the best, the best ever at it. What they're doing to us is a very, very
sad thing.

So we have to do that. We have to renegotiate our trade deals. And, Lester,
they're taking our jobs, they're giving incentives, they're doing things that,
frankly, we don't do.

Let me give you the example of Mexico. They have a VAT tax. We're on a different
system. When we sell into Mexico, there's a tax. When they sell in -- automatic,
16 percent, approximately. When they sell into us, there's no tax. It's a
defective agreement. It's been defective for a long time, many years, but the
politicians haven't done anything about it.

Now, in all fairness to Secretary Clinton -- yes, is that OK? Good. I want you
to be very happy. It's very important to me.

But in all fairness to Secretary Clinton, when she started talking about this,
it was really very recently. She's been doing this for 30 years. And why hasn't
she made the agreements better? The NAFTA agreement is defective. Just because
of the tax and many other reasons, but just because of the fact...

HOLT: Let me interrupt just a moment, but...

TRUMP: Secretary Clinton and others, politicians, should have been doing this
for years, not right now, because of the fact that we've created a movement.
They should have been doing this for years. What's happened to our jobs and our
country and our economy generally is -- look, we owe $20 trillion. We cannot do
it any longer, Lester.

HOLT: Back to the question, though. How do you bring back -- specifically bring
back jobs, American manufacturers? How do you make them bring the jobs back?

TRUMP: Well, the first thing you do is don't let the jobs leave. The companies
are leaving. I could name, I mean, there are thousands of them. They're leaving,
and they're leaving in bigger numbers than ever.

And what you do is you say, fine, you want to go to Mexico or some other
country, good luck. We wish you a lot of luck. But if you think you're going to
make your air conditioners or your cars or your cookies or whatever you make and
bring them into our country without a tax, you're wrong.

And once you say you're going to have to tax them coming in, and our politicians
never do this, because they have special interests and the special interests
want those companies to leave, because in many cases, they own the companies. So
what I'm saying is, we can stop them from leaving. We have to stop them from
leaving. And that's a big, big factor.

HOLT: Let me let Secretary Clinton get in here.

CLINTON: Well, let's stop for a second and remember where we were eight years
ago. We had the worst financial crisis, the Great Recession, the worst since the
1930s. That was in large part because of tax policies that slashed taxes on the
wealthy, failed to invest in the middle class, took their eyes off of Wall
Street, and created a perfect storm.

In fact, Donald was one of the people who rooted for the housing crisis. He
said, back in 2006, ''Gee, I hope it does collapse, because then I can go in and
buy some and make some money.'' Well, it did collapse.

TRUMP: That's called business, by the way.

CLINTON: Nine million people -- nine million people lost their jobs. Five
million people lost their homes. And $13 trillion in family wealth was wiped
out.

Now, we have come back from that abyss. And it has not been easy. So we're now
on the precipice of having a potentially much better economy, but the last thing
we need to do is to go back to the policies that failed us in the first place.

Independent experts have looked at what I've proposed and looked at what
Donald's proposed, and basically they've said this, that if his tax plan, which
would blow up the debt by over $5 trillion and would in some instances
disadvantage middle-class families compared to the wealthy, were to go into
effect, we would lose 3.5 million jobs and maybe have another recession.

They've looked at my plans and they've said, OK, if we can do this, and I intend
to get it done, we will have 10 million more new jobs, because we will be making
investments where we can grow the economy. Take clean energy. Some country is
going to be the clean- energy superpower of the 21st century. Donald thinks that
climate change is a hoax perpetrated by the Chinese. I think it's real.

TRUMP: I did not. I did not. I do not say that.

CLINTON: I think science is real.

TRUMP: I do not say that.

CLINTON: And I think it's important that we grip this and deal with it, both at
home and abroad. And here's what we can do. We can deploy a half a billion more
solar panels. We can have enough clean energy to power every home. We can build
a new modern electric grid. That's a lot of jobs; that's a lot of new economic
activity.

So I've tried to be very specific about what we can and should do, and I am
determined that we're going to get the economy really moving again, building on
the progress we've made over the last eight years, but never going back to what
got us in trouble in the first place.

HOLT: Mr. Trump?

TRUMP: She talks about solar panels. We invested in a solar company, our
country. That was a disaster. They lost plenty of money on that one.

Now, look, I'm a great believer in all forms of energy, but we're putting a lot
of people out of work. Our energy policies are a disaster. Our country is losing
so much in terms of energy, in terms of paying off our debt. You can't do what
you're looking to do with $20 trillion in debt.

The Obama administration, from the time they've come in, is over 230 years'
worth of debt, and he's topped it. He's doubled it in a course of almost eight
years, seven-and-a-half years, to be semi- exact.

So I will tell you this. We have to do a much better job at keeping our jobs.
And we have to do a much better job at giving companies incentives to build new
companies or to expand, because they're not doing it.

And all you have to do is look at Michigan and look at Ohio and look at all of
these places where so many of their jobs and their companies are just leaving,
they're gone.

And, Hillary, I'd just ask you this. You've been doing this for 30 years. Why
are you just thinking about these solutions right now? For 30 years, you've been
doing it, and now you're just starting to think of solutions.

CLINTON: Well, actually...

TRUMP: I will bring -- excuse me. I will bring back jobs. You can't bring back
jobs.

CLINTON: Well, actually, I have thought about this quite a bit.

TRUMP: Yeah, for 30 years. CLINTON: And I have -- well, not quite that long. I
think my husband did a pretty good job in the 1990s. I think a lot about what
worked and how we can make it work again...

TRUMP: Well, he approved NAFTA...

(CROSSTALK)

CLINTON: ... million new jobs, a balanced budget...

TRUMP: He approved NAFTA, which is the single worst trade deal ever approved in
this country.

CLINTON: Incomes went up for everybody. Manufacturing jobs went up also in the
1990s, if we're actually going to look at the facts.

When I was in the Senate, I had a number of trade deals that came before me, and
I held them all to the same test. Will they create jobs in America? Will they
raise incomes in America? And are they good for our national security? Some of
them I voted for. The biggest one, a multinational one known as CAFTA, I voted
against. And because I hold the same standards as I look at all of these trade
deals.

But let's not assume that trade is the only challenge we have in the economy. I
think it is a part of it, and I've said what I'm going to do. I'm going to have
a special prosecutor. We're going to enforce the trade deals we have, and we're
going to hold people accountable.

When I was secretary of state, we actually increased American exports globally
30 percent. We increased them to China 50 percent. So I know how to really work
to get new jobs and to get exports that helped to create more new jobs.

HOLT: Very quickly...

TRUMP: But you haven't done it in 30 years or 26 years or any number you want
to...

CLINTON: Well, I've been a senator, Donald...

TRUMP: You haven't done it. You haven't done it.

CLINTON: And I have been a secretary of state...

TRUMP: Excuse me.

CLINTON: And I have done a lot...

TRUMP: Your husband signed NAFTA, which was one of the worst things that ever
happened to the manufacturing industry.

CLINTON: Well, that's your opinion. That is your opinion.

TRUMP: You go to New England, you go to Ohio, Pennsylvania, you go anywhere you
want, Secretary Clinton, and you will see devastation where manufacture is down
30, 40, sometimes 50 percent. NAFTA is the worst trade deal maybe ever signed
anywhere, but certainly ever signed in this country.

And now you want to approve Trans-Pacific Partnership. You were totally in favor
of it. Then you heard what I was saying, how bad it is, and you said, I can't
win that debate. But you know that if you did win, you would approve that, and
that will be almost as bad as NAFTA. Nothing will ever top NAFTA.

CLINTON: Well, that is just not accurate. I was against it once it was finally
negotiated and the terms were laid out. I wrote about that in...

TRUMP: You called it the gold standard.

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: You called it the gold standard of trade deals. You said it's the finest
deal you've ever seen.

CLINTON: No.

TRUMP: And then you heard what I said about it, and all of a sudden you were
against it.

CLINTON: Well, Donald, I know you live in your own reality, but that is not the
facts. The facts are -- I did say I hoped it would be a good deal, but when it
was negotiated...

TRUMP: Not.

CLINTON: ... which I was not responsible for, I concluded it wasn't. I wrote
about that in my book...

TRUMP: So is it President Obama's fault?

CLINTON: ... before you even announced.

TRUMP: Is it President Obama's fault?

CLINTON: Look, there are differences...

TRUMP: Secretary, is it President Obama's fault?

CLINTON: There are...

TRUMP: Because he's pushing it.

CLINTON: There are different views about what's good for our country, our
economy, and our leadership in the world. And I think it's important to look at
what we need to do to get the economy going again. That's why I said new jobs
with rising incomes, investments, not in more tax cuts that would add $5
trillion to the debt.

TRUMP: But you have no plan.

CLINTON: But in -- oh, but I do.

TRUMP: Secretary, you have no plan.

CLINTON: In fact, I have written a book about it. It's called ''Stronger
Together.'' You can pick it up tomorrow at a bookstore...

TRUMP: That's about all you've...

(CROSSTALK)

HOLT: Folks, we're going to...

CLINTON: ... or at an airport near you.

HOLT: We're going to move to...

CLINTON: But it's because I see this -- we need to have strong growth, fair
growth, sustained growth. We also have to look at how we help families balance
the responsibilities at home and the responsibilities at business.

So we have a very robust set of plans. And people have looked at both of our
plans, have concluded that mine would create 10 million jobs and yours would
lose us 3.5 million jobs, and explode the debt which would have a recession.

TRUMP: You are going to approve one of the biggest tax cuts in history. You are
going to approve one of the biggest tax increases in history. You are going to
drive business out. Your regulations are a disaster, and you're going to
increase regulations all over the place.

And by the way, my tax cut is the biggest since Ronald Reagan. I'm very proud of
it. It will create tremendous numbers of new jobs. But regulations, you are
going to regulate these businesses out of existence.

When I go around -- Lester, I tell you this, I've been all over. And when I go
around, despite the tax cut, the thing -- the things that business as in people
like the most is the fact that I'm cutting regulation. You have regulations on
top of regulations, and new companies cannot form and old companies are going
out of business. And you want to increase the regulations and make them even
worse.

I'm going to cut regulations. I'm going to cut taxes big league, and you're
going to raise taxes big league, end of story.

HOLT: Let me get you to pause right there, because we're going to move into --
we're going to move into the next segment. We're going to talk taxes...

CLINTON: That can't -- that can't be left to stand.HOLT: Please just take 30
seconds and then we're going to go on.

CLINTON: I kind of assumed that there would be a lot of these charges and
claims, and so...

TRUMP: Facts.

CLINTON: So we have taken the home page of my website, HillaryClinton.com, and
we've turned it into a fact-checker. So if you want to see in real-time what the
facts are, please go and take a look. Because what I have proposed...

TRUMP: And take a look at mine, also, and you'll see.

CLINTON: ... would not add a penny to the debt, and your plans would add $5
trillion to the debt. What I have proposed would cut regulations and streamline
them for small businesses. What I have proposed would be paid for by raising
taxes on the wealthy, because they have made all the gains in the economy. And I
think it's time that the wealthy and corporations paid their fair share to
support this country.

HOLT: Well, you just opened the next segment.

TRUMP: Well, could I just finish -- I think I...

(CROSSTALK)

HOLT: I'm going to give you a chance right here...

TRUMP: I think I should -- you go to her website, and you take a look at her
website.

HOLT: ... with a new 15-minute segment...

TRUMP: She's going to raise taxes $1.3 trillion.

HOLT: Mr. Trump, I'm going to...

TRUMP: And look at her website. You know what? It's no difference than this.
She's telling us how to fight ISIS. Just go to her website. She tells you how to
fight ISIS on her website. I don't think General Douglas MacArthur would like
that too much.

HOLT: The next segment, we're continuing...

CLINTON: Well, at least I have a plan to fight ISIS.

HOLT: ... achieving prosperity...

TRUMP: No, no, you're telling the enemy everything you want to do.

CLINTON: No, we're not. No, we're not.TRUMP: See, you're telling the enemy
everything you want to do. No wonder you've been fighting -- no wonder you've
been fighting ISIS your entire adult life.

CLINTON: That's a -- that's -- go to the -- please, fact checkers, get to work.

HOLT: OK, you are unpacking a lot here. And we're still on the issue of
achieving prosperity. And I want to talk about taxes. The fundamental difference
between the two of you concerns the wealthy.

Secretary Clinton, you're calling for a tax increase on the wealthiest
Americans. I'd like you to further defend that. And, Mr. Trump, you're calling
for tax cuts for the wealthy. I'd like you to defend that. And this next
two-minute answer goes to you, Mr. Trump.

TRUMP: Well, I'm really calling for major jobs, because the wealthy are going
create tremendous jobs. They're going to expand their companies. They're going
to do a tremendous job.

I'm getting rid of the carried interest provision. And if you really look, it's
not a tax -- it's really not a great thing for the wealthy. It's a great thing
for the middle class. It's a great thing for companies to expand.

And when these people are going to put billions and billions of dollars into
companies, and when they're going to bring $2.5 trillion back from overseas,
where they can't bring the money back, because politicians like Secretary
Clinton won't allow them to bring the money back, because the taxes are so
onerous, and the bureaucratic red tape, so what -- is so bad.

So what they're doing is they're leaving our country, and they're, believe it or
not, leaving because taxes are too high and because some of them have lots of
money outside of our country. And instead of bringing it back and putting the
money to work, because they can't work out a deal to -- and everybody agrees it
should be brought back.

Instead of that, they're leaving our country to get their money, because they
can't bring their money back into our country, because of bureaucratic red tape,
because they can't get together. Because we have -- we have a president that
can't sit them around a table and get them to approve something.

And here's the thing. Republicans and Democrats agree that this should be done,
$2.5 trillion. I happen to think it's double that. It's probably $5 trillion
that we can't bring into our country, Lester. And with a little leadership,
you'd get it in here very quickly, and it could be put to use on the inner
cities and lots of other things, and it would be beautiful.

But we have no leadership. And honestly, that starts with Secretary Clinton.

HOLT: All right. You have two minutes of the same question to defend tax
increases on the wealthiest Americans, Secretary Clinton.

CLINTON: I have a feeling that by, the end of this evening, I'm going to be
blamed for everything that's ever happened.

TRUMP: Why not?

CLINTON: Why not? Yeah, why not?

(LAUGHTER)

You know, just join the debate by saying more crazy things. Now, let me say
this, it is absolutely the case...

TRUMP: There's nothing crazy about not letting our companies bring their money
back into their country.

HOLT: This is -- this is Secretary Clinton's two minutes, please.

TRUMP: Yes.

CLINTON: Yeah, well, let's start the clock again, Lester. We've looked at your
tax proposals. I don't see changes in the corporate tax rates or the kinds of
proposals you're referring to that would cause the repatriation, bringing back
of money that's stranded overseas. I happen to support that.

TRUMP: Then you didn't read it.

CLINTON: I happen to -- I happen to support that in a way that will actually
work to our benefit. But when I look at what you have proposed, you have what is
called now the Trump loophole, because it would so advantage you and the
business you do. You've proposed an approach that has a...

TRUMP: Who gave it that name? The first I've -- who gave it that name?

(CROSSTALK)

HOLT: Mr. Trump, this is Secretary Clinton's two minutes.

CLINTON: ... $4 billion tax benefit for your family. And when you look at what
you are proposing...

TRUMP: How much? How much for my family? CLINTON: ... it is...

TRUMP: Lester, how much?

CLINTON: ... as I said, trumped-up trickle-down. Trickle-down did not work. It
got us into the mess we were in, in 2008 and 2009. Slashing taxes on the wealthy
hasn't worked.

And a lot of really smart, wealthy people know that. And they are saying, hey,
we need to do more to make the contributions we should be making to rebuild the
middle class. CLINTON: I don't think top-down works in America. I think building
the middle class, investing in the middle class, making college debt-free so
more young people can get their education, helping people refinance their --
their debt from college at a lower rate. Those are the kinds of things that will
really boost the economy. Broad-based, inclusive growth is what we need in
America, not more advantages for people at the very top.

HOLT: Mr. Trump, we're...

TRUMP: Typical politician. All talk, no action. Sounds good, doesn't work. Never
going to happen. Our country is suffering because people like Secretary Clinton
have made such bad decisions in terms of our jobs and in terms of what's going
on.

Now, look, we have the worst revival of an economy since the Great Depression.
And believe me: We're in a bubble right now. And the only thing that looks good
is the stock market, but if you raise interest rates even a little bit, that's
going to come crashing down.

We are in a big, fat, ugly bubble. And we better be awfully careful. And we have
a Fed that's doing political things. This Janet Yellen of the Fed. The Fed is
doing political -- by keeping the interest rates at this level. And believe me:
The day Obama goes off, and he leaves, and goes out to the golf course for the
rest of his life to play golf, when they raise interest rates, you're going to
see some very bad things happen, because the Fed is not doing their job. The Fed
is being more political than Secretary Clinton.

HOLT: Mr. Trump, we're talking about the burden that Americans have to pay, yet
you have not released your tax returns. And the reason nominees have released
their returns for decades is so that voters will know if their potential
president owes money to -- who he owes it to and any business conflicts. Don't
Americans have a right to know if there are any conflicts of interest?

TRUMP: I don't mind releasing -- I'm under a routine audit. And it'll be
released. And -- as soon as the audit's finished, it will be released.

But you will learn more about Donald Trump by going down to the federal
elections, where I filed a 104-page essentially financial statement of sorts,
the forms that they have. It shows income -- in fact, the income -- I just
looked today -- the income is filed at $694 million for this past year, $694
million. If you would have told me I was going to make that 15 or 20 years ago,
I would have been very surprised.

But that's the kind of thinking that our country needs. When we have a country
that's doing so badly, that's being ripped off by every single country in the
world, it's the kind of thinking that our country needs, because everybody --
Lester, we have a trade deficit with all of the countries that we do business
with, of almost $800 billion a year. You know what that is? That means, who's
negotiating these trade deals?

We have people that are political hacks negotiating our trade deals.

HOLT: The IRS says an audit...

TRUMP: Excuse me.

HOLT: ... of your taxes -- you're perfectly free to release your taxes during an
audit. And so the question, does the public's right to know outweigh your
personal...

TRUMP: Well, I told you, I will release them as soon as the audit. Look, I've
been under audit almost for 15 years. I know a lot of wealthy people that have
never been audited. I said, do you get audited? I get audited almost every year.

And in a way, I should be complaining. I'm not even complaining. I don't mind
it. It's almost become a way of life. I get audited by the IRS. But other people
don't.

I will say this. We have a situation in this country that has to be taken care
of. I will release my tax returns -- against my lawyer's wishes -- when she
releases her 33,000 e-mails that have been deleted. As soon as she releases
them, I will release.

(APPLAUSE)

I will release my tax returns. And that's against -- my lawyers, they say,
''Don't do it.'' I will tell you this. No -- in fact, watching shows, they're
reading the papers. Almost every lawyer says, you don't release your returns
until the audit's complete. When the audit's complete, I'll do it. But I would
go against them if she releases her e-mails.

HOLT: So it's negotiable?

TRUMP: It's not negotiable, no. Let her release the e-mails. Why did she delete
33,000...

HOLT: Well, I'll let her answer that. But let me just admonish the audience one
more time. There was an agreement. We did ask you to be silent, so it would be
helpful for us. Secretary Clinton?

CLINTON: Well, I think you've seen another example of bait-and- switch here. For
40 years, everyone running for president has released their tax returns. You can
go and see nearly, I think, 39, 40 years of our tax returns, but everyone has
done it. We know the IRS has made clear there is no prohibition on releasing it
when you're under audit.

So you've got to ask yourself, why won't he release his tax returns? And I think
there may be a couple of reasons. First, maybe he's not as rich as he says he
is. Second, maybe he's not as charitable as he claims to be. CLINTON: Third, we
don't know all of his business dealings, but we have been told through
investigative reporting that he owes about $650 million to Wall Street and
foreign banks. Or maybe he doesn't want the American people, all of you watching
tonight, to know that he's paid nothing in federal taxes, because the only years
that anybody's ever seen were a couple of years when he had to turn them over to
state authorities when he was trying to get a casino license, and they showed he
didn't pay any federal income tax.

TRUMP: That makes me smart.

CLINTON: So if he's paid zero, that means zero for troops, zero for vets, zero
for schools or health. And I think probably he's not all that enthusiastic about
having the rest of our country see what the real reasons are, because it must be
something really important, even terrible, that he's trying to hide.

And the financial disclosure statements, they don't give you the tax rate. They
don't give you all the details that tax returns would. And it just seems to me
that this is something that the American people deserve to see. And I have no
reason to believe that he's ever going to release his tax returns, because
there's something he's hiding.

And we'll guess. We'll keep guessing at what it might be that he's hiding. But I
think the question is, were he ever to get near the White House, what would be
those conflicts? Who does he owe money to? Well, he owes you the answers to
that, and he should provide them.

HOLT: He also -- he also raised the issue of your e-mails. Do you want to
respond to that?

CLINTON: I do. You know, I made a mistake using a private e- mail. TRUMP: That's
for sure.

CLINTON: And if I had to do it over again, I would, obviously, do it
differently. But I'm not going to make any excuses. It was a mistake, and I take
responsibility for that.

HOLT: Mr. Trump?

TRUMP: That was more than a mistake. That was done purposely. OK? That was not a
mistake. That was done purposely. When you have your staff taking the Fifth
Amendment, taking the Fifth so they're not prosecuted, when you have the man
that set up the illegal server taking the Fifth, I think it's disgraceful. And
believe me, this country thinks it's -- really thinks it's disgraceful, also.

As far as my tax returns, you don't learn that much from tax returns. That I can
tell you. You learn a lot from financial disclosure. And you should go down and
take a look at that.

The other thing, I'm extremely underleveraged. The report that said $650 --
which, by the way, a lot of friends of mine that know my business say, boy,
that's really not a lot of money. It's not a lot of money relative to what I
had.

The buildings that were in question, they said in the same report, which was --
actually, it wasn't even a bad story, to be honest with you, but the buildings
are worth $3.9 billion. And the $650 isn't even on that. But it's not $650. It's
much less than that.

But I could give you a list of banks, I would -- if that would help you, I would
give you a list of banks. These are very fine institutions, very fine banks. I
could do that very quickly.

I am very underleveraged. I have a great company. I have a tremendous income.
And the reason I say that is not in a braggadocios way. It's because it's about
time that this country had somebody running it that has an idea about money.

When we have $20 trillion in debt, and our country's a mess, you know, it's one
thing to have $20 trillion in debt and our roads are good and our bridges are
good and everything's in great shape, our airports. Our airports are like from a
third world country.

You land at LaGuardia, you land at Kennedy, you land at LAX, you land at Newark,
and you come in from Dubai and Qatar and you see these incredible -- you come in
from China, you see these incredible airports, and you land -- we've become a
third world country.

So the worst of all things has happened. We owe $20 trillion, and we're a mess.
We haven't even started. And we've spent $6 trillion in the Middle East,
according to a report that I just saw. Whether it's 6 or 5, but it looks like
it's 6, $6 trillion in the Middle East, we could have rebuilt our country twice.

And it's really a shame. And it's politicians like Secretary Clinton that have
caused this problem. Our country has tremendous problems. We're a debtor nation.
We're a serious debtor nation. And we have a country that needs new roads, new
tunnels, new bridges, new airports, new schools, new hospitals. And we don't
have the money, because it's been squandered on so many of your ideas.

HOLT: We'll let you respond and we'll move on to the next segment.

CLINTON: And maybe because you haven't paid any federal income tax for a lot of
years. (APPLAUSE)

And the other thing I think is important...

TRUMP: It would be squandered, too, believe me.

CLINTON: ... is if your -- if your main claim to be president of the United
States is your business, then I think we should talk about that. You know, your
campaign manager said that you built a lot of businesses on the backs of little
guys. And, indeed, I have met a lot of the people who were stiffed by you and
your businesses, Donald. I've met dishwashers, painters, architects, glass
installers, marble installers, drapery installers, like my dad was, who you
refused to pay when they finished the work that you asked them to do.

We have an architect in the audience who designed one of your clubhouses at one
of your golf courses. It's a beautiful facility. It immediately was put to use.
And you wouldn't pay what the man needed to be paid, what he was charging you to
do...

TRUMP: Maybe he didn't do a good job and I was unsatisfied with his work...

CLINTON: Well, to...

TRUMP: Which our country should do, too.

CLINTON: Do the thousands of people that you have stiffed over the course of
your business not deserve some kind of apology from someone who has taken their
labor, taken the goods that they produced, and then refused to pay them?

I can only say that I'm certainly relieved that my late father never did
business with you. He provided a good middle-class life for us, but the people
he worked for, he expected the bargain to be kept on both sides.

And when we talk about your business, you've taken business bankruptcy six
times. There are a lot of great businesspeople that have never taken bankruptcy
once. You call yourself the King of Debt. You talk about leverage. You even at
one time suggested that you would try to negotiate down the national debt of the
United States.

TRUMP: Wrong. Wrong.

CLINTON: Well, sometimes there's not a direct transfer of skills from business
to government, but sometimes what happened in business would be really bad for
government.

HOLT: Let's let Mr. Trump...

CLINTON: And we need to be very clear about that.

TRUMP: So, yeah, I think -- I do think it's time. Look, it's all words, it's all
sound bites. I built an unbelievable company. Some of the greatest assets
anywhere in the world, real estate assets anywhere in the world, beyond the
United States, in Europe, lots of different places. It's an unbelievable
company.

But on occasion, four times, we used certain laws that are there. And when
Secretary Clinton talks about people that didn't get paid, first of all, they
did get paid a lot, but taken advantage of the laws of the nation.

Now, if you want to change the laws, you've been there a long time, change the
laws. But I take advantage of the laws of the nation because I'm running a
company. My obligation right now is to do well for myself, my family, my
employees, for my companies. And that's what I do.

But what she doesn't say is that tens of thousands of people that are
unbelievably happy and that love me. I'll give you an example. We're just
opening up on Pennsylvania Avenue right next to the White House, so if I don't
get there one way, I'm going to get to Pennsylvania Avenue another.

But we're opening the Old Post Office. Under budget, ahead of schedule, saved
tremendous money. I'm a year ahead of schedule. And that's what this country
should be doing.

We build roads and they cost two and three and four times what they're supposed
to cost. We buy products for our military and they come in at costs that are so
far above what they were supposed to be, because we don't have people that know
what they're doing.

When we look at the budget, the budget is bad to a large extent because we have
people that have no idea as to what to do and how to buy. The Trump
International is way under budget and way ahead of schedule. And we should be
able to do that for our country.

HOLT: Well, we're well behind schedule, so I want to move to our next segment.
We move into our next segment talking about America's direction. And let's start
by talking about race.

The share of Americans who say race relations are bad in this country is the
highest it's been in decades, much of it amplified by shootings of
African-Americans by police, as we've seen recently in Charlotte and Tulsa. Race
has been a big issue in this campaign, and one of you is going to have to bridge
a very wide and bitter gap.

So how do you heal the divide? Secretary Clinton, you get two minutes on this.

CLINTON: Well, you're right. Race remains a significant challenge in our
country. Unfortunately, race still determines too much, often determines where
people live, determines what kind of education in their public schools they can
get, and, yes, it determines how they're treated in the criminal justice system.
We've just seen those two tragic examples in both Tulsa and Charlotte.

And we've got to do several things at the same time. We have to restore trust
between communities and the police. We have to work to make sure that our police
are using the best training, the best techniques, that they're well prepared to
use force only when necessary. Everyone should be respected by the law, and
everyone should respect the law. TRUMP: You need better relationships between
the communities and the police, because in some cases, it's not good.

But you look at Dallas, where the relationships were really studied, the
relationships were really a beautiful thing, and then five police officers were
killed one night very violently. So there's some bad things going on. Some
really bad things.

HOLT: Secretary Clinton...

TRUMP: But we need -- Lester, we need law and order. And we need law and order
in the inner cities, because the people that are most affected by what's
happening are African-American and Hispanic people. And it's very unfair to them
what our politicians are allowing to happen.

HOLT: Secretary Clinton?

CLINTON: Well, I've heard -- I've heard Donald say this at his rallies, and it's
really unfortunate that he paints such a dire negative picture of black
communities in our country.

TRUMP: Ugh.

CLINTON: You know, the vibrancy of the black church, the black businesses that
employ so many people, the opportunities that so many families are working to
provide for their kids. There's a lot that we should be proud of and we should
be supporting and lifting up.

But we do always have to make sure we keep people safe. There are the right ways
of doing it, and then there are ways that are ineffective. Stop-and-frisk was
found to be unconstitutional and, in part, because it was ineffective. It did
not do what it needed to do.

Now, I believe in community policing. And, in fact, violent crime is one-half of
what it was in 1991. Property crime is down 40 percent. We just don't want to
see it creep back up. We've had 25 years of very good cooperation.

But there were some problems, some unintended consequences. Too many young
African-American and Latino men ended up in jail for nonviolent offenses. And
it's just a fact that if you're a young African-American man and you do the same
thing as a young white man, you are more likely to be arrested, charged,
convicted, and incarcerated. So we've got to address the systemic racism in our
criminal justice system. We cannot just say law and order. We have to say -- we
have to come forward with a plan that is going to divert people from the
criminal justice system, deal with mandatory minimum sentences, which have put
too many people away for too long for doing too little.

We need to have more second chance programs. I'm glad that we're ending private
prisons in the federal system; I want to see them ended in the state system. You
shouldn't have a profit motivation to fill prison cells with young Americans. So
there are some positive ways we can work on this.

And I believe strongly that commonsense gun safety measures would assist us.
Right now -- and this is something Donald has supported, along with the gun
lobby -- right now, we've got too many military- style weapons on the streets.
In a lot of places, our police are outgunned. We need comprehensive background
checks, and we need to keep guns out of the hands of those who will do harm.

And we finally need to pass a prohibition on anyone who's on the terrorist watch
list from being able to buy a gun in our country. If you're too dangerous to
fly, you are too dangerous to buy a gun. So there are things we can do, and we
ought to do it in a bipartisan way.

HOLT: Secretary Clinton, last week, you said we've got to do everything possible
to improve policing, to go right at implicit bias. Do you believe that police
are implicitly biased against black people?

CLINTON: Lester, I think implicit bias is a problem for everyone, not just
police. I think, unfortunately, too many of us in our great country jump to
conclusions about each other. And therefore, I think we need all of us to be
asking hard questions about, you know, why am I feeling this way?

But when it comes to policing, since it can have literally fatal consequences, I
have said, in my first budget, we would put money into that budget to help us
deal with implicit bias by retraining a lot of our police officers.

I've met with a group of very distinguished, experienced police chiefs a few
weeks ago. They admit it's an issue. They've got a lot of concerns. Mental
health is one of the biggest concerns, because now police are having to handle a
lot of really difficult mental health problems on the street.

CLINTON: They want support, they want more training, they want more assistance.
And I think the federal government could be in a position where we would offer
and provide that.

HOLT: Mr. Trump...

TRUMP: I'd like to respond to that.

HOLT: Please.

TRUMP: First of all, I agree, and a lot of people even within my own party want
to give certain rights to people on watch lists and no- fly lists. I agree with
you. When a person is on a watch list or a no-fly list, and I have the
endorsement of the NRA, which I'm very proud of. These are very, very good
people, and they're protecting the Second Amendment.

But I think we have to look very strongly at no-fly lists and watch lists. And
when people are on there, even if they shouldn't be on there, we'll help them,
we'll help them legally, we'll help them get off. But I tend to agree with that
quite strongly.

I do want to bring up the fact that you were the one that brought up the words
super-predator about young black youth. And that's a term that I think was a --
it's -- it's been horribly met, as you know. I think you've apologized for it.
But I think it was a terrible thing to say.

And when it comes to stop-and-frisk, you know, you're talking about takes guns
away. Well, I'm talking about taking guns away from gangs and people that use
them. And I don't think -- I really don't think you disagree with me on this, if
you want to know the truth.

I think maybe there's a political reason why you can't say it, but I really
don't believe -- in New York City, stop-and-frisk, we had 2,200 murders, and
stop-and-frisk brought it down to 500 murders. Five hundred murders is a lot of
murders. It's hard to believe, 500 is like supposed to be good?

But we went from 2,200 to 500. And it was continued on by Mayor Bloomberg. And
it was terminated by current mayor. But stop-and- frisk had a tremendous impact
on the safety of New York City. Tremendous beyond belief. So when you say it has
no impact, it really did. It had a very, very big impact.

CLINTON: Well, it's also fair to say, if we're going to talk about mayors, that
under the current mayor, crime has continued to drop, including murders. So
there is...

TRUMP: No, you're wrong. You're wrong.

CLINTON: No, I'm not.

TRUMP: Murders are up. All right. You check it.

CLINTON: New York -- New York has done an excellent job. And I give credit -- I
give credit across the board going back two mayors, two police chiefs, because
it has worked. And other communities need to come together to do what will work,
as well.

Look, one murder is too many. But it is important that we learn about what has
been effective. And not go to things that sound good that really did not have
the kind of impact that we would want. Who disagrees with keeping neighborhoods
safe?

But let's also add, no one should disagree about respecting the rights of young
men who live in those neighborhoods. And so we need to do a better job of
working, again, with the communities, faith communities, business communities,
as well as the police to try to deal with this problem.

HOLT: This conversation is about race. And so, Mr. Trump, I have to ask you for
five...

TRUMP: I'd like to just respond, if I might.

HOLT: Please -- 20 seconds.

TRUMP: I'd just like to respond.

HOLT: Please respond, then I've got a quick follow-up for you.

TRUMP: I will. Look, the African-American community has been let down by our
politicians. They talk good around election time, like right now, and after the
election, they said, see ya later, I'll see you in four years.

The African-American community -- because -- look, the community within the
inner cities has been so badly treated. They've been abused and used in order to
get votes by Democrat politicians, because that's what it is. They've controlled
these communities for up to 100 years.

HOLT: Mr. Trump, let me...

(CROSSTALK)

CLINTON: Well, I -- I do think...

TRUMP: And I will tell you, you look at the inner cities -- and I just left
Detroit, and I just left Philadelphia, and I just -- you know, you've seen me,
I've been all over the place. You decided to stay home, and that's OK. But I
will tell you, I've been all over. And I've met some of the greatest people I'll
ever meet within these communities. And they are very, very upset with what
their politicians have told them and what their politicians have done.

HOLT: Mr. Trump, I...

CLINTON: I think -- I think -- I think Donald just criticized me for preparing
for this debate. And, yes, I did. And you know what else I prepared for? I
prepared to be president. And I think that's a good thing.

(APPLAUSE)

HOLT: Mr. Trump, for five years, you perpetuated a false claim that the nation's
first black president was not a natural-born citizen. You questioned his
legitimacy. In the last couple of weeks, you acknowledged what most Americans
have accepted for years: The president was born in the United States. Can you
tell us what took you so long?

TRUMP: I'll tell you very -- well, just very simple to say. Sidney Blumenthal
works for the campaign and close -- very close friend of Secretary Clinton. And
her campaign manager, Patti Doyle, went to -- during the campaign, her campaign
against President Obama, fought very hard. And you can go look it up, and you
can check it out. TRUMP: And if you look at CNN this past week, Patti Solis
Doyle was on Wolf Blitzer saying that this happened. Blumenthal sent McClatchy,
highly respected reporter at McClatchy, to Kenya to find out about it. They were
pressing it very hard. She failed to get the birth certificate.

When I got involved, I didn't fail. I got him to give the birth certificate. So
I'm satisfied with it. And I'll tell you why I'm satisfied with it.

HOLT: That was...

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: Because I want to get on to defeating ISIS, because I want to get on to
creating jobs, because I want to get on to having a strong border, because I
want to get on to things that are very important to me and that are very
important to the country.

HOLT: I will let you respond. It's important. But I just want to get the answer
here. The birth certificate was produced in 2011. You've continued to tell the
story and question the president's legitimacy in 2012, '13, '14, '15...

TRUMP: Yeah.

HOLT: .... as recently as January. So the question is, what changed your mind?

TRUMP: Well, nobody was pressing it, nobody was caring much about it. I figured
you'd ask the question tonight, of course. But nobody was caring much about it.
But I was the one that got him to produce the birth certificate. And I think I
did a good job.

Secretary Clinton also fought it. I mean, you know -- now, everybody in
mainstream is going to say, oh, that's not true. Look, it's true. Sidney
Blumenthal sent a reporter -- you just have to take a look at CNN, the last
week, the interview with your former campaign manager. And she was involved. But
just like she can't bring back jobs, she can't produce.

HOLT: I'm sorry. I'm just going to follow up -- and I will let you respond to
that, because there's a lot there. But we're talking about racial healing in
this segment. What do you say to Americans, people of color who...

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: Well, it was very -- I say nothing. I say nothing, because I was able to
get him to produce it. He should have produced it a long time before. I say
nothing.

But let me just tell you. When you talk about healing, I think that I've
developed very, very good relationships over the last little while with the
African-American community. I think you can see that.

And I feel that they really wanted me to come to that conclusion. And I think I
did a great job and a great service not only for the country, but even for the
president, in getting him to produce his birth certificate.

HOLT: Secretary Clinton?

CLINTON: Well, just listen to what you heard.

(LAUGHTER)

And clearly, as Donald just admitted, he knew he was going to stand on this
debate stage, and Lester Holt was going to be asking us questions, so he tried
to put the whole racist birther lie to bed.

But it can't be dismissed that easily. He has really started his political
activity based on this racist lie that our first black president was not an
American citizen. There was absolutely no evidence for it, but he persisted, he
persisted year after year, because some of his supporters, people that he was
trying to bring into his fold, apparently believed it or wanted to believe it.

But, remember, Donald started his career back in 1973 being sued by the Justice
Department for racial discrimination because he would not rent apartments in one
of his developments to African-Americans, and he made sure that the people who
worked for him understood that was the policy. He actually was sued twice by the
Justice Department.

So he has a long record of engaging in racist behavior. And the birther lie was
a very hurtful one. You know, Barack Obama is a man of great dignity. And I
could tell how much it bothered him and annoyed him that this was being touted
and used against him.

But I like to remember what Michelle Obama said in her amazing speech at our
Democratic National Convention: When they go low, we go high. And Barack Obama
went high, despite Donald Trump's best efforts to bring him down.

HOLT: Mr. Trump, you can respond and we're going to move on to the next segment.

TRUMP: I would love to respond. First of all, I got to watch in preparing for
this some of your debates against Barack Obama. You treated him with terrible
disrespect. And I watched the way you talk now about how lovely everything is
and how wonderful you are. It doesn't work that way. You were after him, you
were trying to -- you even sent out or your campaign sent out pictures of him in
a certain garb, very famous pictures. I don't think you can deny that.

But just last week, your campaign manager said it was true. So when you tried to
act holier than thou, it really doesn't work. It really doesn't.

Now, as far as the lawsuit, yes, when I was very young, I went into my father's
company, had a real estate company in Brooklyn and Queens, and we, along with
many, many other companies throughout the country -- it was a federal lawsuit --
were sued. We settled the suit with zero -- with no admission of guilt. It was
very easy to do. TRUMP: I notice you bring that up a lot. And, you know, I also
notice the very nasty commercials that you do on me in so many different ways,
which I don't do on you. Maybe I'm trying to save the money.

But, frankly, I look -- I look at that, and I say, isn't that amazing? Because I
settled that lawsuit with no admission of guilt, but that was a lawsuit brought
against many real estate firms, and it's just one of those things.

I'll go one step further. In Palm Beach, Florida, tough community, a brilliant
community, a wealthy community, probably the wealthiest community there is in
the world, I opened a club, and really got great credit for it. No
discrimination against African- Americans, against Muslims, against anybody. And
it's a tremendously successful club. And I'm so glad I did it. And I have been
given great credit for what I did. And I'm very, very proud of it. And that's
the way I feel. That is the true way I feel.

HOLT: Our next segment is called ''Securing America.'' We want to start with a
21st century war happening every day in this country. Our institutions are under
cyber attack, and our secrets are being stolen. So my question is, who's behind
it? And how do we fight it?

Secretary Clinton, this answer goes to you.

CLINTON: Well, I think cyber security, cyber warfare will be one of the biggest
challenges facing the next president, because clearly we're facing at this point
two different kinds of adversaries. There are the independent hacking groups
that do it mostly for commercial reasons to try to steal information that they
can use to make money.

But increasingly, we are seeing cyber attacks coming from states, organs of
states. The most recent and troubling of these has been Russia. There's no doubt
now that Russia has used cyber attacks against all kinds of organizations in our
country, and I am deeply concerned about this. I know Donald's very praiseworthy
of Vladimir Putin, but Putin is playing a really...

(CROSSTALK)

CLINTON: ... tough, long game here. And one of the things he's done is to let
loose cyber attackers to hack into government files, to hack into personal
files, hack into the Democratic National Committee. And we recently have learned
that, you know, that this is one of their preferred methods of trying to wreak
havoc and collect information. We need to make it very clear -- whether it's
Russia, China, Iran or anybody else -- the United States has much greater
capacity. And we are not going to sit idly by and permit state actors to go
after our information, our private-sector information or our public-sector
information.

And we're going to have to make it clear that we don't want to use the kinds of
tools that we have. We don't want to engage in a different kind of warfare. But
we will defend the citizens of this country.

And the Russians need to understand that. I think they've been treating it as
almost a probing, how far would we go, how much would we do. And that's why I
was so -- I was so shocked when Donald publicly invited Putin to hack into
Americans. That is just unacceptable. It's one of the reasons why 50 national
security officials who served in Republican information -- in administrations...

HOLT: Your two minutes have expired.

CLINTON: ... have said that Donald is unfit to be the commander- in-chief. It's
comments like that that really worry people who understand the threats that we
face.

HOLT: Mr. Trump, you have two minutes and the same question. Who's behind it?
And how do we fight it?

TRUMP: I do want to say that I was just endorsed -- and more are coming next
week -- it will be over 200 admirals, many of them here -- admirals and generals
endorsed me to lead this country. That just happened, and many more are coming.
And I'm very proud of it.

In addition, I was just endorsed by ICE. They've never endorsed anybody before
on immigration. I was just endorsed by ICE. I was just recently endorsed --
16,500 Border Patrol agents.

So when Secretary Clinton talks about this, I mean, I'll take the admirals and
I'll take the generals any day over the political hacks that I see that have led
our country so brilliantly over the last 10 years with their knowledge. OK?
Because look at the mess that we're in. Look at the mess that we're in.

As far as the cyber, I agree to parts of what Secretary Clinton said. We should
be better than anybody else, and perhaps we're not. I don't think anybody knows
it was Russia that broke into the DNC. She's saying Russia, Russia, Russia, but
I don't -- maybe it was. I mean, it could be Russia, but it could also be China.
It could also be lots of other people. It also could be somebody sitting on
their bed that weighs 400 pounds, OK? TRUMP: You don't know who broke in to DNC.

But what did we learn with DNC? We learned that Bernie Sanders was taken
advantage of by your people, by Debbie Wasserman Schultz. Look what happened to
her. But Bernie Sanders was taken advantage of. That's what we learned.

Now, whether that was Russia, whether that was China, whether it was another
country, we don't know, because the truth is, under President Obama we've lost
control of things that we used to have control over.

We came in with the Internet, we came up with the Internet, and I think
Secretary Clinton and myself would agree very much, when you look at what ISIS
is doing with the Internet, they're beating us at our own game. ISIS.

So we have to get very, very tough on cyber and cyber warfare. It is -- it is a
huge problem. I have a son. He's 10 years old. He has computers. He is so good
with these computers, it's unbelievable. The security aspect of cyber is very,
very tough. And maybe it's hardly doable.

But I will say, we are not doing the job we should be doing. But that's true
throughout our whole governmental society. We have so many things that we have
to do better, Lester, and certainly cyber is one of them.

HOLT: Secretary Clinton?

CLINTON: Well, I think there are a number of issues that we should be
addressing. I have put forth a plan to defeat ISIS. It does involve going after
them online. I think we need to do much more with our tech companies to prevent
ISIS and their operatives from being able to use the Internet to radicalize,
even direct people in our country and Europe and elsewhere.

But we also have to intensify our air strikes against ISIS and eventually
support our Arab and Kurdish partners to be able to actually take out ISIS in
Raqqa, end their claim of being a Caliphate.

We're making progress. Our military is assisting in Iraq. And we're hoping that
within the year we'll be able to push ISIS out of Iraq and then, you know,
really squeeze them in Syria.

But we have to be cognizant of the fact that they've had foreign fighters coming
to volunteer for them, foreign money, foreign weapons, so we have to make this
the top priority.

And I would also do everything possible to take out their leadership. I was
involved in a number of efforts to take out Al Qaida leadership when I was
secretary of state, including, of course, taking out bin Laden. And I think we
need to go after Baghdadi, as well, make that one of our organizing principles.
Because we've got to defeat ISIS, and we've got to do everything we can to
disrupt their propaganda efforts online.

HOLT: You mention ISIS, and we think of ISIS certainly as over there, but there
are American citizens who have been inspired to commit acts of terror on
American soil, the latest incident, of course, the bombings we just saw in New
York and New Jersey, the knife attack at a mall in Minnesota, in the last year,
deadly attacks in San Bernardino and Orlando. I'll ask this to both of you. Tell
us specifically how you would prevent homegrown attacks by American citizens,
Mr. Trump?

TRUMP: Well, first I have to say one thing, very important. Secretary Clinton is
talking about taking out ISIS. ''We will take out ISIS.'' Well, President Obama
and Secretary Clinton created a vacuum the way they got out of Iraq, because
they got out -- what, they shouldn't have been in, but once they got in, the way
they got out was a disaster. And ISIS was formed.

So she talks about taking them out. She's been doing it a long time. She's been
trying to take them out for a long time. But they wouldn't have even been formed
if they left some troops behind, like 10,000 or maybe something more than that.
And then you wouldn't have had them.

Or, as I've been saying for a long time, and I think you'll agree, because I
said it to you once, had we taken the oil -- and we should have taken the oil --
ISIS would not have been able to form either, because the oil was their primary
source of income. And now they have the oil all over the place, including the
oil -- a lot of the oil in Libya, which was another one of her disasters.

HOLT: Secretary Clinton?

CLINTON: Well, I hope the fact-checkers are turning up the volume and really
working hard. Donald supported the invasion of Iraq.

TRUMP: Wrong.

CLINTON: That is absolutely proved over and over again.

TRUMP: Wrong. Wrong.

CLINTON: He actually advocated for the actions we took in Libya and urged that
Gadhafi be taken out, after actually doing some business with him one
time.CLINTON: But the larger point -- and he says this constantly -- is George
W. Bush made the agreement about when American troops would leave Iraq, not
Barack Obama.

And the only way that American troops could have stayed in Iraq is to get an
agreement from the then-Iraqi government that would have protected our troops,
and the Iraqi government would not give that.

But let's talk about the question you asked, Lester. The question you asked is,
what do we do here in the United States? That's the most important part of this.
How do we prevent attacks? How do we protect our people?

And I think we've got to have an intelligence surge, where we are looking for
every scrap of information. I was so proud of law enforcement in New York, in
Minnesota, in New Jersey. You know, they responded so quickly, so professionally
to the attacks that occurred by Rahami. And they brought him down. And we may
find out more information because he is still alive, which may prove to be an
intelligence benefit.

So we've got to do everything we can to vacuum up intelligence from Europe, from
the Middle East. That means we've got to work more closely with our allies, and
that's something that Donald has been very dismissive of.

We're working with NATO, the longest military alliance in the history of the
world, to really turn our attention to terrorism. We're working with our friends
in the Middle East, many of which, as you know, are Muslim majority nations.
Donald has consistently insulted Muslims abroad, Muslims at home, when we need
to be cooperating with Muslim nations and with the American Muslim community.

They're on the front lines. They can provide information to us that we might not
get anywhere else. They need to have close working cooperation with law
enforcement in these communities, not be alienated and pushed away as some of
Donald's rhetoric, unfortunately, has led to.

HOLT: Mr. Trump...

TRUMP: Well, I have to respond.

HOLT: Please respond. TRUMP: The secretary said very strongly about working with
-- we've been working with them for many years, and we have the greatest mess
anyone's ever seen. You look at the Middle East, it's a total mess. Under your
direction, to a large extent.

But you look at the Middle East, you started the Iran deal, that's another
beauty where you have a country that was ready to fall, I mean, they were doing
so badly. They were choking on the sanctions. And now they're going to be
actually probably a major power at some point pretty soon, the way they're
going.

But when you look at NATO, I was asked on a major show, what do you think of
NATO? And you have to understand, I'm a businessperson. I did really well. But I
have common sense. And I said, well, I'll tell you. I haven't given lots of
thought to NATO. But two things.

Number one, the 28 countries of NATO, many of them aren't paying their fair
share. Number two -- and that bothers me, because we should be asking -- we're
defending them, and they should at least be paying us what they're supposed to
be paying by treaty and contract.

And, number two, I said, and very strongly, NATO could be obsolete, because --
and I was very strong on this, and it was actually covered very accurately in
the New York Times, which is unusual for the New York Times, to be honest -- but
I said, they do not focus on terror. And I was very strong. And I said it
numerous times.

And about four months ago, I read on the front page of the Wall Street Journal
that NATO is opening up a major terror division. And I think that's great. And I
think we should get -- because we pay approximately 73 percent of the cost of
NATO. It's a lot of money to protect other people. But I'm all for NATO. But I
said they have to focus on terror, also.

And they're going to do that. And that was -- believe me -- I'm sure I'm not
going to get credit for it -- but that was largely because of what I was saying
and my criticism of NATO.

I think we have to get NATO to go into the Middle East with us, in addition to
surrounding nations, and we have to knock the hell out of ISIS, and we have to
do it fast, when ISIS formed in this vacuum created by Barack Obama and
Secretary Clinton. And believe me, you were the ones that took out the troops.
Not only that, you named the day. They couldn't believe it. They sat back
probably and said, I can't believe it. They said...

CLINTON: Lester, we've covered...

TRUMP: No, wait a minute.

CLINTON: We've covered this ground.

TRUMP: When they formed, when they formed, this is something that never should
have happened. It should have never happened. Now, you're talking about taking
out ISIS. But you were there, and you were secretary of state when it was a
little infant. Now it's in over 30 countries. And you're going to stop them? I
don't think so.

HOLT: Mr. Trump, a lot of these are judgment questions. You had supported the
war in Iraq before the invasion. What makes your...

TRUMP: I did not support the war in Iraq.

HOLT: In 2002...

TRUMP: That is a mainstream media nonsense put out by her, because she --
frankly, I think the best person in her campaign is mainstream media.

HOLT: My question is, since you supported it...

TRUMP: Just -- would you like to hear...

HOLT: ... why is your -- why is your judgment...

TRUMP: Wait a minute. I was against the war in Iraq. Just so you put it out.

HOLT: The record shows otherwise, but why -- why was...

TRUMP: The record does not show that.

HOLT: Why was -- is your judgment any...

TRUMP: The record shows that I'm right. When I did an interview with Howard
Stern, very lightly, first time anyone's asked me that, I said, very lightly, I
don't know, maybe, who knows? Essentially. I then did an interview with Neil
Cavuto. We talked about the economy is more important. I then spoke to Sean
Hannity, which everybody refuses to call Sean Hannity. I had numerous
conversations with Sean Hannity at Fox. And Sean Hannity said -- and he called
me the other day -- and I spoke to him about it -- he said you were totally
against the war, because he was for the war.

HOLT: Why is your judgment better than...

TRUMP: And when he -- excuse me. And that was before the war started. Sean
Hannity said very strongly to me and other people -- he's willing to say it, but
nobody wants to call him. I was against the war. He said, you used to have
fights with me, because Sean was in favor of the war.

And I understand that side, also, not very much, because we should have never
been there. But nobody called Sean Hannity. And then they did an article in a
major magazine, shortly after the war started. I think in '04. But they did an
article which had me totally against the war in Iraq.

And one of your compatriots said, you know, whether it was before or right
after, Trump was definitely -- because if you read this article, there's no
doubt. But if somebody -- and I'll ask the press -- if somebody would call up
Sean Hannity, this was before the war started. He and I used to have arguments
about the war. I said, it's a terrible and a stupid thing. It's going to
destabilize the Middle East. And that's exactly what it's done. It's been a
disaster.

HOLT: My reference was to what you had said in 2002, and my question was...

TRUMP: No, no. You didn't hear what I said.

HOLT: Why is your judgment -- why is your judgment any different than Mrs.
Clinton's judgment?

TRUMP: Well, I have much better judgment than she does. There's no question
about that. I also have a much better temperament than she has, you know?

(LAUGHTER)

I have a much better -- she spent -- let me tell you -- she spent hundreds of
millions of dollars on an advertising -- you know, they get Madison Avenue into
a room, they put names -- oh, temperament, let's go after -- I think my
strongest asset, maybe by far, is my temperament. I have a winning temperament.
I know how to win. She does not have a...

HOLT: Secretary Clinton?

TRUMP: Wait. The AFL-CIO the other day, behind the blue screen, I don't know who
you were talking to, Secretary Clinton, but you were totally out of control. I
said, there's a person with a temperament that's got a problem.

HOLT: Secretary Clinton?

CLINTON: Whew, OK.

(LAUGHTER)

Let's talk about two important issues that were briefly mentioned by Donald,
first, NATO. You know, NATO as a military alliance has something called Article
5, and basically it says this: An attack on one is an attack on all. And you
know the only time it's ever been invoked? After 9/11, when the 28 nations of
NATO said that they would go to Afghanistan with us to fight terrorism,
something that they still are doing by our side.

With respect to Iran, when I became secretary of state, Iran was weeks away from
having enough nuclear material to form a bomb. They had mastered the nuclear
fuel cycle under the Bush administration. They had built covert facilities. They
had stocked them with centrifuges that were whirling away.

And we had sanctioned them. I voted for every sanction against Iran when I was
in the Senate, but it wasn't enough. So I spent a year-and-a-half putting
together a coalition that included Russia and China to impose the toughest
sanctions on Iran.

And we did drive them to the negotiating table. And my successor, John Kerry,
and President Obama got a deal that put a lid on Iran's nuclear program without
firing a single shot. That's diplomacy. That's coalition-building. That's
working with other nations.

The other day, I saw Donald saying that there were some Iranian sailors on a
ship in the waters off of Iran, and they were taunting American sailors who were
on a nearby ship. He said, you know, if they taunted our sailors, I'd blow them
out of the water and start another war. That's not good judgment.

TRUMP: That would not start a war.

CLINTON: That is not the right temperament to be commander-in- chief, to be
taunted. And the worst part...

TRUMP: No, they were taunting us.

CLINTON: ... of what we heard Donald say has been about nuclear weapons. He has
said repeatedly that he didn't care if other nations got nuclear weapons, Japan,
South Korea, even Saudi Arabia. It has been the policy of the United States,
Democrats and Republicans, to do everything we could to reduce the proliferation
of nuclear weapons. He even said, well, you know, if there were nuclear war in
East Asia, well, you know, that's fine...

TRUMP: Wrong.

CLINTON: ... have a good time, folks.

TRUMP: It's lies.

CLINTON: And, in fact, his cavalier attitude about nuclear weapons is so deeply
troubling. That is the number-one threat we face in the world. And it becomes
particularly threatening if terrorists ever get their hands on any nuclear
material. So a man who can be provoked by a tweet should not have his fingers
anywhere near the nuclear codes, as far as I think anyone with any sense about
this should be concerned.

TRUMP: That line's getting a little bit old, I must say. I would like to...

CLINTON: It's a good one, though. It well describes the problem.

(LAUGHTER)

TRUMP: It's not an accurate one at all. It's not an accurate one. So I just want
to give a lot of things -- and just to respond. I agree with her on one thing.
The single greatest problem the world has is nuclear armament, nuclear weapons,
not global warming, like you think and your -- your president thinks.

Nuclear is the single greatest threat. Just to go down the list, we defend
Japan, we defend Germany, we defend South Korea, we defend Saudi Arabia, we
defend countries. They do not pay us. But they should be paying us, because we
are providing tremendous service and we're losing a fortune. That's why we're
losing -- we're losing -- we lose on everything. I say, who makes these -- we
lose on everything. All I said, that it's very possible that if they don't pay a
fair share, because this isn't 40 years ago where we could do what we're doing.
We can't defend Japan, a behemoth, selling us cars by the million...

HOLT: We need to move on.

TRUMP: Well, wait, but it's very important. All I said was, they may have to
defend themselves or they have to help us out. We're a country that owes $20
trillion. They have to help us out.

HOLT: Our last...

TRUMP: As far as the nuclear is concerned, I agree. It is the single greatest
threat that this country has.

HOLT: Which leads to my next question, as we enter our last segment here
(inaudible) the subject of securing America. On nuclear weapons, President Obama
reportedly considered changing the nation's longstanding policy on first use. Do
you support the current policy? Mr. Trump, you have two minutes on that.

TRUMP: Well, I have to say that, you know, for what Secretary Clinton was saying
about nuclear with Russia, she's very cavalier in the way she talks about
various countries. But Russia has been expanding their -- they have a much newer
capability than we do. We have not been updating from the new standpoint.

I looked the other night. I was seeing B-52s, they're old enough that your
father, your grandfather could be flying them. We are not -- we are not keeping
up with other countries. I would like everybody to end it, just get rid of it.
But I would certainly not do first strike.

I think that once the nuclear alternative happens, it's over. At the same time,
we have to be prepared. I can't take anything off the table. Because you look at
some of these countries, you look at North Korea, we're doing nothing there.
China should solve that problem for us. China should go into North Korea. China
is totally powerful as it relates to North Korea.

And by the way, another one powerful is the worst deal I think I've ever seen
negotiated that you started is the Iran deal. Iran is one of their biggest
trading partners. Iran has power over North Korea.

And when they made that horrible deal with Iran, they should have included the
fact that they do something with respect to North Korea. And they should have
done something with respect to Yemen and all these other places.

And when asked to Secretary Kerry, why didn't you do that? Why didn't you add
other things into the deal? One of the great giveaways of all time, of all time,
including $400 million in cash. Nobody's ever seen that before. That turned out
to be wrong. It was actually $1.7 billion in cash, obviously, I guess for the
hostages. It certainly looks that way.

So you say to yourself, why didn't they make the right deal? This is one of the
worst deals ever made by any country in history. The deal with Iran will lead to
nuclear problems. All they have to do is sit back 10 years, and they don't have
to do much.

HOLT: Your two minutes is expired.

TRUMP: And they're going to end up getting nuclear. I met with Bibi Netanyahu
the other day. Believe me, he's not a happy camper.

HOLT: All right. Mrs. Clinton, Secretary Clinton, you have two minutes.

CLINTON: Well, let me -- let me start by saying, words matter. Words matter when
you run for president. And they really matter when you are president. And I want
to reassure our allies in Japan and South Korea and elsewhere that we have
mutual defense treaties and we will honor them.

It is essential that America's word be good. And so I know that this campaign
has caused some questioning and worries on the part of many leaders across the
globe. I've talked with a number of them. But I want to -- on behalf of myself,
and I think on behalf of a majority of the American people, say that, you know,
our word is good.

It's also important that we look at the entire global situation. There's no
doubt that we have other problems with Iran. But personally, I'd rather deal
with the other problems having put that lid on their nuclear program than still
to be facing that.

And Donald never tells you what he would do. Would he have started a war? Would
he have bombed Iran? If he's going to criticize a deal that has been very
successful in giving us access to Iranian facilities that we never had before,
then he should tell us what his alternative would be. But it's like his plan to
defeat ISIS. He says it's a secret plan, but the only secret is that he has no
plan.

So we need to be more precise in how we talk about these issues. People around
the word follow our presidential campaigns so closely, trying to get hints about
what we will do. Can they rely on us? Are we going to lead the world with
strength and in accordance with our values? That's what I intend to do. I intend
to be a leader of our country that people can count on, both here at home and
around the world, to make decisions that will further peace and prosperity, but
also stand up to bullies, whether they're abroad or at home.

We cannot let those who would try to destabilize the world to interfere with
American interests and security...

HOLT: Your two minutes is...

CLINTON: ... to be given any opportunities at all.

HOLT: ... is expired.

TRUMP: Lester, one thing I'd like to say.

HOLT: Very quickly. Twenty seconds.

TRUMP: I will go very quickly. But I will tell you that Hillary will tell you to
go to her website and read all about how to defeat ISIS, which she could have
defeated by never having it, you know, get going in the first place. Right now,
it's getting tougher and tougher to defeat them, because they're in more and
more places, more and more states, more and more nations.

HOLT: Mr. Trump...

TRUMP: And it's a big problem. And as far as Japan is concerned, I want to help
all of our allies, but we are losing billions and billions of dollars. We cannot
be the policemen of the world. We cannot protect countries all over the world...

HOLT: We have just...

TRUMP: ... where they're not paying us what we need.

HOLT: We have just a few final questions...

TRUMP: And she doesn't say that, because she's got no business ability. We need
heart. We need a lot of things. But you have to have some basic ability. And
sadly, she doesn't have that. All of the things that she's talking about could
have been taken care of during the last 10 years, let's say, while she had great
power. But they weren't taken care of. And if she ever wins this race, they
won't be taken care of.

HOLT: Mr. Trump, this year Secretary Clinton became the first woman nominated
for president by a major party. Earlier this month, you said she doesn't have,
quote, ''a presidential look.'' She's standing here right now. What did you mean
by that?

TRUMP: She doesn't have the look. She doesn't have the stamina. I said she
doesn't have the stamina. And I don't believe she does have the stamina. To be
president of this country, you need tremendous stamina.

HOLT: The quote was, ''I just don't think she has the presidential look.''

TRUMP: You have -- wait a minute. Wait a minute, Lester. You asked me a
question. Did you ask me a question?

You have to be able to negotiate our trade deals. You have to be able to
negotiate, that's right, with Japan, with Saudi Arabia. I mean, can you imagine,
we're defending Saudi Arabia? And with all of the money they have, we're
defending them, and they're not paying? All you have to do is speak to them.
Wait. You have so many different things you have to be able to do, and I don't
believe that Hillary has the stamina.

HOLT: Let's let her respond. CLINTON: Well, as soon as he travels to 112
countries and negotiates a peace deal, a cease-fire, a release of dissidents, an
opening of new opportunities in nations around the world, or even spends 11
hours testifying in front of a congressional committee, he can talk to me about
stamina.

(APPLAUSE)

TRUMP: The world -- let me tell you. Let me tell you. Hillary has experience,
but it's bad experience. We have made so many bad deals during the last -- so
she's got experience, that I agree.

(APPLAUSE)

But it's bad, bad experience. Whether it's the Iran deal that you're so in love
with, where we gave them $150 billion back, whether it's the Iran deal, whether
it's anything you can -- name -- you almost can't name a good deal. I agree.
She's got experience, but it's bad experience. And this country can't afford to
have another four years of that kind of experience.

HOLT: We are at -- we are at the final question.

(APPLAUSE)

CLINTON: Well, one thing. One thing, Lester.

HOLT: Very quickly, because we're at the final question now.

CLINTON: You know, he tried to switch from looks to stamina. But this is a man
who has called women pigs, slobs and dogs, and someone who has said pregnancy is
an inconvenience to employers, who has said...

TRUMP: I never said that.

CLINTON: .... women don't deserve equal pay unless they do as good a job as men.

TRUMP: I didn't say that.

CLINTON: And one of the worst things he said was about a woman in a beauty
contest. He loves beauty contests, supporting them and hanging around them. And
he called this woman ''Miss Piggy.'' Then he called her ''Miss Housekeeping,''
because she was Latina. Donald, she has a name.

TRUMP: Where did you find this? Where did you find this?

CLINTON: Her name is Alicia Machado.

TRUMP: Where did you find this?

CLINTON: And she has become a U.S. citizen, and you can bet...

TRUMP: Oh, really? CLINTON: ... she's going to vote this November.

TRUMP: OK, good. Let me just tell you...

(APPLAUSE)

HOLT: Mr. Trump, could we just take 10 seconds and then we ask the final
question...

TRUMP: You know, Hillary is hitting me with tremendous commercials. Some of it's
said in entertainment. Some of it's said -- somebody who's been very vicious to
me, Rosie O'Donnell, I said very tough things to her, and I think everybody
would agree that she deserves it and nobody feels sorry for her.

But you want to know the truth? I was going to say something...

HOLT: Please very quickly.

TRUMP: ... extremely rough to Hillary, to her family, and I said to myself, ''I
can't do it. I just can't do it. It's inappropriate. It's not nice.'' But she
spent hundreds of millions of dollars on negative ads on me, many of which are
absolutely untrue. They're untrue. And they're misrepresentations.

And I will tell you this, Lester: It's not nice. And I don't deserve that.

But it's certainly not a nice thing that she's done. It's hundreds of millions
of ads. And the only gratifying thing is, I saw the polls come in today, and
with all of that money...

HOLT: We have to move on to the final question.

TRUMP: ... $200 million is spent, and I'm either winning or tied, and I've spent
practically nothing.

(APPLAUSE)

HOLT: One of you will not win this election. So my final question to you
tonight, are you willing to accept the outcome as the will of the voters?
Secretary Clinton?

CLINTON: Well, I support our democracy. And sometimes you win, sometimes you
lose. But I certainly will support the outcome of this election.

And I know Donald's trying very hard to plant doubts about it, but I hope the
people out there understand: This election's really up to you. It's not about us
so much as it is about you and your families and the kind of country and future
you want. So I sure hope you will get out and vote as though your future
depended on it, because I think it does.

HOLT: Mr. Trump, very quickly, same question. Will you accept the outcome as the
will of the voters? TRUMP: I want to make America great again. We are a nation
that is seriously troubled. We're losing our jobs. People are pouring into our
country.

The other day, we were deporting 800 people. And perhaps they passed the wrong
button, they pressed the wrong button, or perhaps worse than that, it was
corruption, but these people that we were going to deport for good reason ended
up becoming citizens. Ended up becoming citizens. And it was 800. And now it
turns out it might be 1,800, and they don't even know.

HOLT: Will you accept the outcome of the election?

TRUMP: Look, here's the story. I want to make America great again. I'm going to
be able to do it. I don't believe Hillary will. The answer is, if she wins, I
will absolutely support her.

(APPLAUSE)

HOLT: All right. Well, that is going to do it for us. That concludes our debate
for this evening, a spirit one. We covered a lot of ground, not everything as I
suspected we would.

The next presidential debates are scheduled for October 9th at Washington
University in St. Louis and October 19th at the University of Nevada Las Vegas.
The conversation will continue.

A reminder. The vice presidential debate is scheduled for October 4th at
Longwood University in Farmville, Virginia. My thanks to Hillary Clinton and to
Donald Trump and to Hofstra University for hosting us tonight. Good night,
everyone.

END

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/27/us/politics/transcript-debate.html

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 28, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Would Trump Keep a First-Strike Option? the Answer Is Not Clear

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; William J. Broad contributed reporting from New
York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1073 words


WASHINGTON -- Donald J. Trump often says he never wants to signal to the
nation's adversaries what he would do as commander in chief -- an embrace of the
concept of ''strategic ambiguity'' that is as old as warfare.

But on the critical question of whether the United States should ever be the
first to use nuclear weapons, he appeared somewhere between contradictory and
confused during his debate with Hillary Clinton on Monday.

On a related issue that Mr. Trump raised himself -- the modernization by the
Russians of their nuclear arsenal at a time when the United States is still
debating plans and looking for the money -- he had the gist of it right. The
implication of his observation was that the United States had to match what the
Russians were doing, creating the specter of a new arms race; Mrs. Clinton
hinted at that, too, but in the arena of cyberweapons.

Questions about Mr. Trump's philosophy on the use of nuclear weapons have
shadowed him throughout the campaign, in part because Mrs. Clinton has
repeatedly raised them to sow doubts that he has the temperament for a job in
which he would have sole authority over the world's most powerful arsenal.

The nuclear issue arose when the moderator, Lester Holt, noted that President
Obama ''reportedly considered changing the nation's longstanding policy on first
use,'' which has left open the option that the United States would be the first
to detonate a nuclear weapon in a conflict, as it did at Hiroshima 71 years ago.
After lengthy debate inside the administration, Mr. Obama appears unlikely to
alter that policy before leaving office.

''Do you support the current policy?'' Mr. Holt asked.

In the past, the word ''nuclear'' has touched off many reactions from Mr. Trump,
from descriptions of the decrepit state of some of the United States' nuclear
forces, to denunciations of the Iranian nuclear deal, to descriptions of a
long-dead uncle who taught at M.I.T. and warned Mr. Trump decades ago about the
power of nuclear weapons.

Mr. Trump touched on most of those -- except the uncle -- on Monday night, but
seemed to come down on both sides of the nuclear-first-use debate.

''I would certainly not do first strike,'' Mr. Trump first declared, appearing
to be advocating a change in American policy that dates to the Truman
administration.

But he did not stick with it. ''I think that once the nuclear alternative
happens, it's over,'' Mr. Trump said. ''At the same time, we have to be
prepared. I can't take anything off the table.''

That put him pretty much where Mr. Obama ended up after seven and a half years.
The president vowed to reduce the role of nuclear weapons in American strategic
planning, and he did.

It was not the first time Mr. Trump has been asked about nuclear first-use, or
the first time he offered an obfuscated answer. When the subject came up in an
interview in July,  he said, ''I would only make that commitment as the
agreement is being signed,'' though it was not clear what agreement he had in
mind. '' I wouldn't want to play my cards. I don't want to say that.''

When pressed, he added: ''I will do everything in my power never to be in a
position where we will have to use nuclear power. It's very important to me.''

The Trump campaign did not respond to several emails seeking to clarify Mr.
Trump's response at the debate. Mrs. Clinton, his Democratic opponent, never
addressed the question when she was asked for a response to Mr. Trump's answer.

While Mr. Trump argues that he would be reluctant to use nuclear weapons, he
certainly does not sound reluctant to build them. He argued for a resumption of
the arms race.

''Russia has been expanding their -- they have a much newer capability than we
do,'' he said. ''We have not been updating from the new standpoint.''

His observation is correct -- the Russians have been deploying new nuclear arms
at a brisk pace, while the United States is devising, but not yet executing, a
nuclear modernization program that Mr. Obama put on the drawing board. But Mr.
Obama is leaving the largest investments -- upward of a trillion dollars in
coming decades -- for his successors.

In testimony before Congress in July, Franklin C. Miller, a nuclear expert who
has served several presidents over 31 years, said that ''Russia is engaged in a
massive modernization of its nuclear forces,'' deploying two new types of
intercontinental ballistic missiles and submarine launched ballistic missiles,
while launching new nuclear-armed submarines and building new heavy bombers.

Mr. Trump was on shakier ground when he and Mrs. Clinton turned to to the newest
class of weapons, cyberweapons. And on that issue, Mrs. Clinton sounded more
hawkish than Mr. Trump.

Mrs. Clinton went right at Russia, arguing that its president, Vladimir V.
Putin, ''is playing a really tough, long game here,'' taunting Mr. Trump by
reminding him he had encouraged Russian hackers to attack the United States. (He
actually spoke approvingly of Russians hacking her email.)

She accused Russia of having been the force behind the theft of data from the
Democratic National Committee and, in a veiled swipe at the Obama
administration, suggested that it has not been tough enough in calling out that
behavior.

''We need to make it very clear -- whether it's Russia, China, Iran or anybody
else -- the United States has much greater capacity,'' she said. ''And we are
not going to sit idly by and permit state actors to go after our information,
our private-sector information or our public-sector information.''

Then she added: ''We don't want to use the kinds of tools that we have. We don't
want to engage in a different kind of warfare. But we will defend the citizens
of this country.''

In fact, as Mrs. Clinton knows, the United States employed cyberweapons against
Iran's nuclear program when she was secretary of state. Since she left office,
they have been used again, against the Islamic State.

Mr. Trump made no acknowledgment of the American offensive cyberarsenal, and
continued to cast doubt whether Russia was behind the attack on the Democratic
committee, saying it could have been the Chinese or ''somebody sitting on their
bed that weighs 400 pounds.'' He blamed Mr. Obama because ''we've lost control
of things we used to have control over.''

Follow The New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/28/us/politics/donald-trump-hillary-clinton-nucle
ar-policy-cyber.html

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 28, 2016 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

'Braggadocious?' In Trump and Clinton Debate, Words That Sent Viewers to the
Dictionary

BYLINE: By LIAM STACK

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Express; Pg.

LENGTH: 779 words


As Donald J. Trump and Hillary Clinton clashed at their first debate on Monday
over which one has the ''stamina'' and ''temperament'' to be president, more
than a few viewers turned to the internet to understand exactly what those words
meant.

They turned to the website of Merriam-Webster, a dictionary founded in 1828 that
now has a thoroughly modern social media presence. The dictionary is wry and
sometimes outright snarky on Twitter, such as the time it told a Slate editor
this month that ''no one cares how you feel'' (and got more than 18,000 retweets
in the process.)

@gabrielroth No one cares how you feel. -- Merriam-Webster (@MerriamWebster)
September 7, 2016

On Monday evening, the company tweeted throughout the debate as viewers in large
numbers looked up keywords and phrases used by Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton.

Merriam-Webster has been tracking election-related searches throughout the
campaign and noting the top performers, including the word ''deplorable'' after
Mrs. Clinton used the word in reference to some Trump supporters and for
''skittle'' after Donald Trump Jr. compared Syrian refugees to skittles ''that
would kill you.''

So what were the highest performers on Monday night?

The dictionary said searches for ''temperament'' spiked 78 times above the
normal hourly average during the debate, after Mr. Trump loudly declared: ''I
think my strongest asset, maybe by far, is my temperament. I have a winning
temperament."

Temperament: noun. ''the usual attitude, mood, or behavior of a person or
animal.''

The dictionary also said that searches for ''stamina'' jumped after the
candidates disagreed over which one of them was more physically up to the job.

Stamina: noun. ''great physical or mental strength that allows you to continue
doing something for a long time.''

'Stamina' is climbing in lookups. Also spiking: 'temperament'. #debates
#debatenight https://t.co/QXMkFROYON -- Merriam-Webster (@MerriamWebster)
September 27, 2016

But ''braggadocio'' was the most-searched word on the website for part of the
evening, the dictionary said, after Mr. Trump said he did not mean to sound
''braggadocious'' when discussing his wealth and business dealings.

Braggadocio: noun. ''the annoying or exaggerated talk of someone who is trying
to sound very proud or brave.''

'Braggadocio' is at the top of our lookups right now. https://t.co/tEkLd4PJz3 --
Merriam-Webster (@MerriamWebster) September 27, 2016

In a statement, the company explained that ''braggadocious'' is ''a dialectical
word from 19th-century America'' that is so seldom used in 21st-century English
that it does not have its own entry in the dictionary. (It means ''arrogant,''
it said.)

We enter it as an adjective and a combining form (as in 'cyberspace'). Lookups
are spiking. #debates #debatenight https://t.co/0KwFOhdUj0
https://t.co/9l7UoG9ytl -- Merriam-Webster (@MerriamWebster) September 27, 2016

Searches for the word ''cyber'' also spiked after the candidates sparred over
the national security implications of hacking and cyberwarfare. Mr. Trump used
it as a noun, which, the dictionary says, is frowned upon.

Cyber: adjective. ''of, relating to, or involving computers or computer
networks.''

There was one trending search that was a bit less straightforward than the
others: the phrase ''stop and frisk,'' a policing tactic, which was stopped in
New York after it was declared unconstitutional and that critics said
disproportionately targeted black and Latino men. Mr. Trump has endorsed it as a
crime-fighting tool.

This is the definition of stop and frisk, found unconstitutional.
https://t.co/X97FuKpD33 -- Merriam-Webster (@MerriamWebster) September 27, 2016

The dictionary tweeted a link to the definition while noting that a judge had
ruled it to be in violation of the Constitution.

Stop and frisk statute: noun. ''a state law that allows a police officer to stop
any person without making an arrest based on a reasonable suspicion that the
person has committed or is about to commit a crime.''

Mr. Trump also seemed to resurrect a word during the debate that had previously
inspired puzzlement and mirth because it seemed to be made up: bigly, meaning in
a large way. ''I'm going to cut taxes bigly, and you're going to raise taxes
bigly,'' he seemed to say, though the Federal News Service transcript rendered
it as ''big league.''

There was no immediate information on how ''bigly'' ranked in search. But for
the record, it's a legitimate adverb, according to the dictionary.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/28/us/braggadocio-in-trump-and-clinton-debate-wor
ds-that-sent-viewers-to-the-dictionary.html

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 30, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump's Jabs on Weight Fuel a Shaming Dialogue

BYLINE: By SARAH MASLIN NIR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 870 words


It was a casual remark tossed off by Donald J. Trump that jolted Johanna Kandel
from her seat during the recent presidential debate.

An anonymous computer hacker, Mr. Trump said, ''could be somebody sitting on
their bed that weighs 400 pounds.''

''The hair on the back of my neck definitely stood up,'' said Ms. Kandel, 37, of
West Palm Beach, Fla., who has struggled with eating disorders and now works to
raise awareness about the issue. Ms. Kandel recalled how vicious comments about
size and appearance contributed to her own struggle.

''How many of our youth were sitting there and watching these debates, and
thinking that this is O.K. to talk about and shame people based on their
appearance?''

Ever since the Monday debate, another national debate has erupted: What happens
when fat-shaming becomes part of the presidential campaign?

How did a question about cyber security lead to #FatShaming? Pretty sure not all
hackers have high BMI. #debatenight -- Elana Margolis (@elanahm) September 27,
2016

Did Trump just suggest #cyber war fare is waged by overweight people?
#Bodyshaming? REALLY? -- Libbey (@libbey) September 27, 2016

Mr. Trump's personal fixation on weight was on display during and after the
debate. He reignited a feud with the comedian Rosie O'Donnell, whom he once said
had ''a fat, ugly face.'' He was unapologetic in responding to Hillary Clinton's
comments that he had called a former Miss Universe, Alicia Machado, ''Miss
Piggy.''

''She gained a massive amount of weight, and it was a real problem,'' he told
Fox News the next morning, although he denied calling her the name.

But it's the blithe comment about a hypothetical 400-pound hacker that helped
trigger a national conversation about fat-shaming.

More than two-thirds of American adults (including Mr. Trump himself) are
considered to be overweight or obese.

''It would make logical sense that if the majority of Americans are fat, that
this would definitely do him in,'' said Kimberly Massengill, a self-described
fat person who specializes in photographing people who are fat. But she doesn't
think that will happen because fat people often think poorly of themselves.
''The fact is that the majority of fat people feel unworthy.''

After Mr. Trump's comment about the 400-pound hacker, Ms. Massengill said her
cellphone buzzed with text messages from friends.

''They all said the same thing,'' said Ms. Massengill. ''Wouldn't it be great if
fat people were the ones to keep Trump out of office?''

But obesity experts and activists say fat-shaming is one of the last bastions of
acceptable discrimination, and Mr. Trump's public body shaming simply reflects a
culture in which it is still considered acceptable to mock people for their
weight.

''With two-thirds of people struggling with weight, you would think that some of
the shaming would be on the decline, or that acceptance or tolerance would
increase,'' said Rebecca Puhl, a professor and the deputy director for the Rudd
Center for Food Policy and Obesity at the University of Connecticut. ''We are
not seeing that.''

Dr. Puhl points to the paucity of laws protecting people from hiring
discrimination based on their weight -- so far Michigan, she said, is the only
state to forbid it. Studies show that overweight people, women in particular,
are discriminated against in the workplace for their size. And research shows
that even medical professionals provide worse care to people who are overweight.

The concern is that cavalier comments about weight by a public figure can have
far-reaching effects. Being teased about weight is a strong contributor to both
disordered eating and weight gain among young people, said Dianne
Neumark-Sztainer, the head of the division of epidemiology and community health
at the University of Minnesota School of Public Health.

''In some ways it legitimizes making those types of comments, which we know from
our research can be very dangerous,'' she said. ''In my opinion, these things
trickle down.''

Kristina Saffran, 24, who was hospitalized with anorexia nervosa in high school,
said body-shaming comments from a public figure, even when they aren't directed
at an individual, still can be deeply painful to people who struggle with eating
disorders.

''They live in a society where everyone is thinking they are bad and stupid and
lazy for being fat, and we have a presidential candidate who is championing
those beliefs,'' said Ms. Saffran, who lives in San Mateo, Calif. ''It is going
to be even harder for them to seek help.''

Though Mr. Trump's comments may reflect a widely held view that being overweight
or obese is a personal failing, some people fear that fat-shaming comments by a
presidential candidate will encourage others to go further.

''Saying these negative things about people's weight and women's appearance will
further embolden people to express similar ideas,'' said Lesley Kinzel, a
Boston-based author of a memoir about being fat.

Until the debate, Ms. Kinzel said she had not focused on much of what Mr. Trump
has said. But during the debate, it became personal. She said she realized
overweight people like her were now ''just one in a line of people he wants to
dismiss as losers.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/29/well/live/a-400-pound-hacker-trump-comment-ign
ites-fat-shaming-debate.html

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        October 2, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

Robert Mugabe Seizes on the Latest Political Threat to His Zimbabwe: WhatsApp

BYLINE: JEFFREY MOYO and NORIMITSU ONISHI

SECTION: WORLD; africa

LENGTH: 1641 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Zimbabwean government, which had dismissed social media until a
viral plea led to large protests, raised prices on cellphone data as internet
use has swelled in the country in recent years.


HARARE, Zimbabwe -- He was an unknown pastor, upset about the hardships of daily
life in Zimbabwe.

But when he posted a protest video on Facebook, wrapping himself in the national
flag, the Rev. Evan Mawarire became one of Zimbabwe's first social media stars,
the embodiment of widespread grievances against President Robert Mugabe. His
subsequent posts on Twitter helped set the stage for the biggest protest against
the government in a decade in the capital, Harare, in early July.

The Zimbabwean government, which had initially dismissed Mr. Mawarire, grasped
the danger that the pastor -- and social media -- posed, potentially more
dangerous than anything Mr. Mugabe had faced during his 36 years in power.

Responding with the same ruthlessness with which it had dispatched critics over
the years, the government jailed the pastor, took him to court and told him to
leave Zimbabwe.

The pastor, who fled with his family to South Africa and then to the United
States, now says he is "definitely not going back to Zimbabwe anytime soon."

"The government first treated social media with disdain and mockery," Mr.
Mawarire said by phone from the airport in Charlotte, N.C., where he was waiting
to catch a flight. "But then, after people started getting galvanized and
mobilized, they thought, 'Wait a minute. This is real.'"

Rid of the pastor, the government soon began a wider crackdown on social media.

It raised prices on cellphone data, immediately curtailing the ability of
opposition parties and activists to organize via social media applications like
WhatsApp.

And it is pressing ahead with comprehensive legislation that would allow the
police to intercept data, seize electronic equipment and arrest people on
loosely defined charges of "insurgency" and "terrorism."

Zimbabwe has joined a growing list of African nations that have curbed social
media in the last year.

Fearing the power that social media gives to rivals, activists and ordinary
citizens, governments in Gabon, the Republic of Congo, Chad, Uganda, Burundi and
Ethiopia have switched off access to the internet for days or weeks, including
during elections. Even Ghana, a standard-bearer for democracy on the continent,
is considering restricting social media in elections next month.

The pushback comes as the use of social media continues to spread across the
continent and tech companies increasingly look to sub-Saharan Africa for growth.
With many Africans still offline, Africa has a large, untapped market, and is
the continent with the world's fastest-growing population.

Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's chief executive, paid his first visit to sub-Saharan
Africa in August even as Zimbabwe and other African nations were moving to curb
their citizens' use of social media. Facebook and WhatsApp, which is also
controlled by Mr. Zuckerberg, have become the favorite tools of many political
activists.

In a two-day trip to Nigeria -- Facebook's biggest African market, with 18
million users -- Mr. Zuckerberg met with young techies and stars of the Nigerian
movie industry, known as Nollywood. The a tour was perhaps intended to charm
ordinary Africans as much as alleviate the worries of their leaders.

Supa Mandiwanzira, Zimbabwe's information technology minister, said the
government's proposed legislation, the Computer Crime and Cyber Crime Bill, was
not meant to control people's use of social media.

"The problem comes when you use social media to promote anarchy and civil
disorder," Mr. Mandiwanzira said in an interview. "That's illegal, and legal
consequences will naturally follow."

But Nelson Chamisa, who served as the information technology minister during a
coalition government between 2009 and 2013, said Mr. Mugabe's government had
shown little interest in the bill until the recent protests. Now, he said, the
government is rushing ahead with a "reactionary, panic bill."

"It's a bill meant to try to curtail social media, which is a new flank, a new
war zone," said Mr. Chamisa, now a vice president of the main opposition party,
the Movement for Democratic Change.

It was during Mr. Chamisa's tenure, when his party oversaw the telecom industry,
that the use of mobile access to the internet skyrocketed in Zimbabwe.

Chris Musonza, an independent technology expert, said SIM cards had sold for up
to $180 before the changes carried out during the coalition government. Under
Mr. Chamisa, the price of SIM cards dropped to 50 cents, and the use of
cellphones spread quickly thanks to the removal of import duties and other
policy changes.

In 2010, fewer than 5 percent of Zimbabweans had access to the internet,
according to the government. In early 2016, nearly 50 percent did, with most
people connecting to the internet through their cellphones.

That increase has profoundly altered the political dynamics. Social media made
possible rapid and very cheap dissemination of information in Zimbabwe, where
there is only one television network, the state-owned ZBC. More important, it
allowed many Zimbabweans to freely express political opinions in a state where
Mr. Mugabe's ZANU-PF party has a long history of violently crushing any critics.

Zimbabweans first began using Facebook for those purposes around 2012. But it
was the increasing popularity of WhatsApp in 2015, and its explosive growth this
year, that brought social media's power to the government's attention. According
to government figures, in late 2015, WhatsApp data bundles accounted for 34
percent of all mobile data used, with Facebook coming in second, with 3 percent.

Zimbabwean activists attribute the popularity of WhatsApp to the anonymity it
gives its users. WhatsApp, which Facebook bought in 2014 and has more than a
billion users worldwide, strengthened privacy for users in April with full
end-to-end encryption, though many technology experts expressed worries last
month after WhatsApp announced that it would start sharing data with Facebook.

"WhatsApp was a big game-changer -- not even us users knew what it was doing in
the beginning," Mr. Mawarire, the pastor, said. He explained that the
information shared in a single WhatsApp chat group tended to spread
exponentially. "When I thought I was talking to a circle of friends, there was a
huge, huge network of other people that fed off each of my friends," he said.

The political parties seized on it as a way to organize.

"Social media platforms have made communication easier and cheaper for our party
youths in organizing meetings at all levels," said Mphehlabayo Malinga,
ZANU-PF's youth secretary for foreign affairs, accusing opposition parties of
using social media "to fan violence and divisions in the country as they
denigrate national leadership."

Lovemore Chinoputsa, the secretary general for the Movement for Democratic
Change's youth wing, said Facebook remained popular in the cities where support
for the opposition was strongest. But because WhatsApp requires less bandwidth,
it is also used by people in rural areas -- Mr. Mugabe's traditional
strongholds.

"Thanks to WhatsApp, we've been able to reach more and more people in rural
areas," Mr. Chinoputsa said. "It started last year, but the dividends are
beginning to be realized now."

In March, in an interview with ZBC on his 92nd birthday, Mr. Mugabe appeared to
dismiss the online world.

"It's an internet of dirty and filthy language," he said. "I just hear these
things as I am told by others. I have no perception nor any interest of wanting
to have direct links with the internet."

But in the following months -- as Mr. Mawarire exploded onto the political scene
and opposition parties organized protests through social media -- the Zimbabwean
government responded. On July 6, as the capital became a ghost town in the
biggest day of protest in a decade, access to social media was interrupted for
several hours.

The government, which denied cutting service, warned that people using social
media to spread "subversive" messages would be arrested. A month later, without
any explanation, the government suspended data bundles, making it more expensive
for people to use WhatsApp and other social media on their phones.

"We noticed the change immediately," Mr. Chinoputsa, the opposition official,
said. He estimated that communication with supporters has gone down about 20
percent.

The crackdown on Mr. Mawarire and social media has had a chilling effect,
activists said. Ordinary Zimbabweans, who participated in the protest on July 6,
have stopped joining protests since then, lessening the pressure on the
government. Recent protests have been led by a few hundred activists and
opposition party supporters.

"What we can do on social media is vent our anger and displeasure," said Patson
Dzamara, 30, a prominent activist whose brother, Itai, also an activist, has
been missing for the last year. "But that's not enough. We have to take the
fight into the streets and tell the government, 'Bring it on.'"

Mr. Mugabe, ever the survivor, has awakened to social media's political promise.

"Our youths," Mr. Mugabe told a ZANU-PF youth group in September, "should use
social media to defend the party and promote the party."

Jeffrey Moyo reported from Harare, and Norimitsu Onishi from Johannesburg.

PHOTOS: After a plea on Facebook by the Rev. Evan Mawarire, above, led to large
protests in Zimbabwe over the summer, the government under Robert Mugabe, left,
on a poster, raised prices on cellphone data. Internet use has swelled in the
country. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THEMBA HADEBE/ASSOCIATED PRESS; AARON UFUMELI/EUROPEAN
PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

Related Articles


     ·    'No One Is Safe': Zimbabwe Threatens to Seize Farms of Party Defectors
     ·    Police in Zimbabwe Hit Protesters With Batons, Tear Gas and Water
          Cannons
     ·    Veterans Group in Zimbabwe Denounces Robert Mugabe
     ·    Zimbabwe Court Frees Pastor Detained Over Protests Against Mugabe
     ·    Pastor in Zimbabwe Is Arrested as Anger Toward Robert Mugabe Builds


LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 3, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mugabe Mocked the Internet, Then Discovered Threat in an Online Pastor

BYLINE: By JEFFREY MOYO and NORIMITSU ONISHI; Jeffrey Moyo reported from Harare,
and Norimitsu Onishi from Johannesburg.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1537 words


HARARE, Zimbabwe -- He was an unknown pastor, upset about the hardships of daily
life in Zimbabwe.

But when he posted a protest video on Facebook, wrapping himself in the national
flag, the Rev. Evan Mawarire became one of Zimbabwe's first social media stars,
the embodiment of widespread grievances against President Robert Mugabe. His
subsequent posts on Twitter helped set the stage for the biggest protest against
the government in a decade in the capital, Harare, in early July.

The Zimbabwean government, which had initially dismissed Mr. Mawarire, grasped
the danger that the pastor -- and social media -- posed, potentially more
dangerous than anything Mr. Mugabe had faced during his 36 years in power.

Responding with the same ruthlessness with which it had dispatched critics over
the years, the government jailed the pastor, took him to court and told him to
leave Zimbabwe.

The pastor, who fled with his family to South Africa and then to the United
States, now says he is ''definitely not going back to Zimbabwe anytime soon.''

''The government first treated social media with disdain and mockery,'' Mr.
Mawarire said by phone from the airport in Charlotte, N.C., where he was waiting
to catch a flight. ''But then, after people started getting galvanized and
mobilized, they thought, 'Wait a minute. This is real.'''

Rid of the pastor, the government soon began a wider crackdown on social media.

It raised prices on cellphone data, immediately curtailing the ability of
opposition parties and activists to organize via social media applications like
WhatsApp.

And it is pressing ahead with comprehensive legislation that would allow the
police to intercept data, seize electronic equipment and arrest people on
loosely defined charges of ''insurgency'' and ''terrorism.''

Zimbabwe has joined a growing list of African nations that have curbed social
media in the last year.

Fearing the power that social media gives to rivals, activists and ordinary
citizens, governments in Gabon, the Republic of Congo, Chad, Uganda, Burundi and
Ethiopia have switched off access to the internet for days or weeks, including
during elections. Even Ghana, a standard-bearer for democracy on the continent,
is considering restricting social media in elections next month.

The pushback comes as the use of social media continues to spread across the
continent and tech companies increasingly look to sub-Saharan Africa for growth.
With many Africans still offline, Africa has a large, untapped market, and is
the continent with the world's fastest-growing population.

Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's chief executive, paid his first visit to sub-Saharan
Africa in August even as Zimbabwe and other African nations were moving to curb
their citizens' use of social media. Facebook and WhatsApp, which is also
controlled by Mr. Zuckerberg, have become the favorite tools of many political
activists.

In a two-day trip to Nigeria -- Facebook's biggest African market, with 18
million users -- Mr. Zuckerberg met with young techies and stars of the Nigerian
movie industry, known as Nollywood. The a tour was perhaps intended to charm
ordinary Africans as much as alleviate the worries of their leaders.

Supa Mandiwanzira, Zimbabwe's information technology minister, said the
government's proposed legislation, the Computer Crime and Cyber Crime Bill, was
not meant to control people's use of social media.

''The problem comes when you use social media to promote anarchy and civil
disorder,'' Mr. Mandiwanzira said in an interview. ''That's illegal, and legal
consequences will naturally follow.''

But Nelson Chamisa, who served as the information technology minister during a
coalition government between 2009 and 2013, said Mr. Mugabe's government had
shown little interest in the bill until the recent protests. Now, he said, the
government is rushing ahead with a ''reactionary, panic bill.''

''It's a bill meant to try to curtail social media, which is a new flank, a new
war zone,'' said Mr. Chamisa, now a vice president of the main opposition party,
the Movement for Democratic Change.

It was during Mr. Chamisa's tenure, when his party oversaw the telecom industry,
that the use of mobile access to the internet skyrocketed in Zimbabwe.

Chris Musonza, an independent technology expert, said SIM cards had sold for up
to $180 before the changes carried out during the coalition government. Under
Mr. Chamisa, the price of SIM cards dropped to 50 cents, and the use of
cellphones spread quickly thanks to the removal of import duties and other
policy changes.

In 2010, fewer than 5 percent of Zimbabweans had access to the internet,
according to the government. In early 2016, nearly 50 percent did, with most
people connecting to the internet through their cellphones.

That increase has profoundly altered the political dynamics. Social media made
possible rapid and very cheap dissemination of information in Zimbabwe, where
there is only one television network, the state-owned ZBC. More important, it
allowed many Zimbabweans to freely express political opinions in a state where
Mr. Mugabe's ZANU-PF party has a long history of violently crushing any critics.

Zimbabweans first began using Facebook for those purposes around 2012. But it
was the increasing popularity of WhatsApp in 2015, and its explosive growth this
year, that brought social media's power to the government's attention. According
to government figures, in late 2015, WhatsApp data bundles accounted for 34
percent of all mobile data used, with Facebook coming in second, with 3 percent.

Zimbabwean activists attribute the popularity of WhatsApp to the anonymity it
gives its users. WhatsApp, which Facebook bought in 2014 and has more than a
billion users worldwide, strengthened privacy for users in April with full
end-to-end encryption, though many technology experts expressed worries last
month after WhatsApp announced that it would start sharing data with Facebook.

''WhatsApp was a big game-changer -- not even us users knew what it was doing in
the beginning,'' Mr. Mawarire, the pastor, said. He explained that the
information shared in a single WhatsApp chat group tended to spread
exponentially. ''When I thought I was talking to a circle of friends, there was
a huge, huge network of other people that fed off each of my friends,'' he said.

The political parties seized on it as a way to organize.

''Social media platforms have made communication easier and cheaper for our
party youths in organizing meetings at all levels,'' said Mphehlabayo Malinga,
ZANU-PF's youth secretary for foreign affairs, accusing opposition parties of
using social media ''to fan violence and divisions in the country as they
denigrate national leadership.''

Lovemore Chinoputsa, the secretary general for the Movement for Democratic
Change's youth wing, said Facebook remained popular in the cities where support
for the opposition was strongest. But because WhatsApp requires less bandwidth,
it is also used by people in rural areas -- Mr. Mugabe's traditional
strongholds.

''Thanks to WhatsApp, we've been able to reach more and more people in rural
areas,'' Mr. Chinoputsa said. ''It started last year, but the dividends are
beginning to be realized now.''

In March, in an interview with ZBC on his 92nd birthday, Mr. Mugabe appeared to
dismiss the online world.

''It's an internet of dirty and filthy language,'' he said. ''I just hear these
things as I am told by others. I have no perception nor any interest of wanting
to have direct links with the internet.''

But in the following months -- as Mr. Mawarire exploded onto the political scene
and opposition parties organized protests through social media -- the Zimbabwean
government responded. On July 6, as the capital became a ghost town in the
biggest day of protest in a decade, access to social media was interrupted for
several hours.

The government, which denied cutting service, warned that people using social
media to spread ''subversive'' messages would be arrested. A month later,
without any explanation, the government suspended data bundles, making it more
expensive for people to use WhatsApp and other social media on their phones.

''We noticed the change immediately,'' Mr. Chinoputsa, the opposition official,
said. He estimated that communication with supporters has gone down about 20
percent.

The crackdown on Mr. Mawarire and social media has had a chilling effect,
activists said. Ordinary Zimbabweans, who participated in the protest on July 6,
have stopped joining protests since then, lessening the pressure on the
government. Recent protests have been led by a few hundred activists and
opposition party supporters.

''What we can do on social media is vent our anger and displeasure,'' said
Patson Dzamara, 30, a prominent activist whose brother, Itai, also an activist,
has been missing for the last year. ''But that's not enough. We have to take the
fight into the streets and tell the government, 'Bring it on.'''

Mr. Mugabe, ever the survivor, has awakened to social media's political promise.

''Our youths,'' Mr. Mugabe told a ZANU-PF youth group in September, ''should use
social media to defend the party and promote the party.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/03/world/africa/zimbabwe-robert-mugabe-whatsapp.h
tml

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After a plea on Facebook by the Rev. Evan Mawarire, above, led
to large protests in Zimbabwe over the summer, the government under Robert
Mugabe, left, on a poster, raised prices on cellphone data. Internet use has
swelled in the country. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THEMBA HADEBE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 AARON UFUMELI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      October 5, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

N.S.A. Contractor Arrested in Possible New Theft of Secrets

BYLINE: JO BECKER, ADAM GOLDMAN, MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and MATT APUZZO

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 1543 words



HIGHLIGHT: The F.B.I. is investigating whether Harold T. Martin III, a National
Security Agency contractor, stole and disclosed highly classified computer code,
officials said.


WASHINGTON -- The F.B.I. secretly arrested a former National Security Agency
contractor in August and, according to law enforcement officials, is
investigating whether he stole and disclosed highly classified computer code
developed by the agency to hack into the networks of foreign governments.

The arrest raises the embarrassing prospect that for the second time in three
years, a contractor for the consulting company Booz Allen Hamilton managed to
steal highly damaging secret information while working for the N.S.A. In 2013,
Edward J. Snowden, who was also a Booz Allen contractor, took a vast trove of
documents from the agency that were later passed to journalists, exposing
surveillance programs in the United States and abroad.

The contractor was identified as Harold T. Martin III of Glen Burnie, Md.,
according to a criminal complaint filed in late August and unsealed Wednesday.
Mr. Martin, who at the time of his arrest was working as a contractor for the
Defense Department after leaving the N.S.A., was charged with theft of
government property and the unauthorized removal or retention of classified
documents.

Mr. Martin, 51, was arrested during an F.B.I. raid on his home on Aug. 27. A
neighbor, Murray Bennett, said in a telephone interview on Wednesday that two
dozen F.B.I. agents wearing military-style uniforms and armed with long guns
stormed the house, and later escorted Mr. Martin out in handcuffs.

According to court documents, the F.B.I. discovered thousands of pages of
documents and dozens of computers or other electronic devices at his home and in
his car, a large amount of it classified. The digital media contained "many
terabytes of information," according to the documents. They also discovered
classified documents that had been posted online, including computer code,
officials said. Some of the documents were produced in 2014.

But more than a month later, the authorities cannot say with certainty whether
Mr. Martin leaked the information, passed them on to a third party or whether he
simply downloaded them.

When F.B.I. agents interviewed Mr. Martin after the raid, he initially denied
having taken the documents and digital files, according to the complaint. But he
later told the authorities that he knew he was not authorized to have the
materials. He told the agents, according to the complaint, that "he knew what he
had done was wrong and that he should not have done it because he knew it was
unauthorized."

The Justice Department unsealed the complaint -- which was filed in United
States District Court in Baltimore -- after The New York Times notified the
government it intended to publish a story about Mr. Martin.

In a brief statement issued Wednesday, lawyers for Mr. Martin said: "We have not
seen any evidence. But what we know is that Hal Martin loves his family and his
country. There is no evidence that he intended to betray his country."

If true, the allegations against Mr. Martin are a setback for the Obama
administration, which has sustained a series of disclosures of classified
information. Along with Mr. Snowden's revelations, the antisecrecy group
WikiLeaks in 2010 disclosed hundreds of thousands of documents from the State
and Defense Departments. In the aftermath of the Snowden disclosures, the
administration took steps to put measures in place to prevent the unauthorized
disclosures of classified information.

Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, defended the Obama
administration's procedures for protecting national security information,
arguing on Wednesday that since Mr. Snowden's disclosures, agencies have
tightened their security measures. He cited the creation of a task force that
sets and monitors security requirements for agencies that handle classified
information, and an overhaul of the government's background check process,
including adding more frequent updates.

The administration has also slashed the number of employees that have access to
classified information, Mr. Earnest said, reducing it by 17 percent in the past
couple of years.

"The president's got a lot of confidence that the vast majority of people who
serve this country in the national security arena, particularly our
professionals in the intelligence community, are genuine American patriots," Mr.
Earnest said.

Another administration official said that investigators suspected that Mr.
Martin began taking the material before Mr. Snowden's actions became public,
adding that reforms put into place after Mr. Snowden's theft would not have
stopped Mr. Martin.

"This is something that has its origins certainly before Snowden came on the
scene, so many of the forms that have been in place since 2013 wouldn't be
relevant to stopping what happened," the official said.

The information believed to have been stolen by Mr. Martin appears to be
different in nature from Mr. Snowden's theft, which included documents that
described the depth and breadth of the N.S.A.'s surveillance.

Mr. Martin is suspected of taking the highly classified computer code developed
by the agency to break into computer systems of adversaries like Russia, China,
Iran and North Korea, some of it outdated.

Several officials said that at the moment it did not look like a traditional
espionage case, but the F.B.I. has not ruled anything out.

Mr. Martin does not fit any of the usual profiles of an "insider threat," and
one administration official said that investigators thought that he was not
politically motivated -- "not like a Snowden or someone who believes that what
we were doing was illegal and wanted to publicize that."

Mr. Martin, a Navy veteran, has degrees in economics and information systems and
has been working for a decade on a Ph.D. in computer science. Neighbors
described him as cordial and helpful but knew little about his work.

Law enforcement officials said that the F.B.I. was investigating the possibility
that he had collected the files with no intention of passing them along. That by
itself would represent a serious security vulnerability, but it would put Mr.
Martin in the company of countless other senior Washington officials who have
been caught taking classified information home. One of the officials described
Mr. Martin as a hoarder.

Samuel R. Berger, a former national security adviser, stole classified documents
from the National Archives and hid them under a construction trailer. Alberto R.
Gonzales took home documents about the nation's warrantless wiretapping program
home with him while he was attorney general. As C.I.A. director, John M. Deutch
kept classified information on his home computer.

Law enforcement officials are also looking into whether Mr. Martin was able to
pass the information on, but are also entertaining a theory that he took it with
that intention and then did not follow through.

But there are many unanswered questions about Mr. Martin's case, including when
and how the authorities learned this identity, and when they believe he began
taking information. It is also not known if the case has any connection to the
leak of classified N.S.A. code in August attributed to a group calling itself
the Shadow Brokers, or whether he had any role in a series of leaks of N.S.A.
intercepts involving Japan, Germany and other countries that WikiLeaks has
published since last year.

"We're struggling to figure him out," the official said, speaking on the
condition of anonymity because no indictment has been publicly released.

For the N.S.A., which spent two years and hundreds of millions, if not billions
of dollars repairing the damage done by Mr. Snowden, a second insider leaking
the agency's information would be devastating. The agency's director, Adm.
Michael Rogers, who previously ran the Navy's Fleet Cyber Command, was brought
in to restore the agency's credibility, open it to more scrutiny and fix the
problems that allowed Mr. Snowden to sweep up hundreds of thousands of
documents.

It is also problematic for Booz Allen, which has built much of its business on
providing highly technical services to the N.S.A. and other intelligence
agencies.

When the company "learned of the arrest of one of its employees by the FBI,"
Booz Allen said in a statement on Wednesday, "we immediately reached out to the
authorities to offer our total cooperation in their investigation, and we fired
the employee. We continue to cooperate fully with the government on its
investigation into this serious matter."

Follow The New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.

Reporting was contributed by David E. Sanger from Cambridge, Mass., and Scott
Shane, Mark Mazzetti and Julie Hirschfeld Davis from Washington.

PHOTOS: A second theft of information by a contractor would further embarrass
the N.S.A., led by Adm. Michael Rogers, left. Edward J. Snowden, right, stole
documents in 2013 and gave them to journalists. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YURI
GRIPAS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; BRENDAN McDERMID/REUTERS) (A14)

Related Articles


     ·    A 'Sad Case' Suspect, Scared Pale as Police Swarmed His House in
          N.S.A. Case
     ·    'Shadow Brokers' Leak Raises Alarming Question: Was the N.S.A. Hacked?
     ·    Leaker's Employer Is Paid to Maintain Government Secrets
     ·    Ex-Worker at C.I.A. Says He Leaked Data on Surveillance


LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 6, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arrest Suggests Another Breach of N.S.A. Secrets

BYLINE: By JO BECKER, ADAM GOLDMAN, MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and MATT APUZZO;
Reporting was contributed by David E. Sanger from Cambridge, Mass., and Scott
Shane, Mark Mazzetti and Julie Hirschfeld Davis from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1437 words


WASHINGTON -- The F.B.I. secretly arrested a former National Security Agency
contractor in August and, according to law enforcement officials, is
investigating whether he stole and disclosed highly classified computer code
developed by the agency to hack into the networks of foreign governments.

The arrest raises the embarrassing prospect that for the second time in three
years, a contractor for the consulting company Booz Allen Hamilton managed to
steal highly damaging secret information while working for the N.S.A. In 2013,
Edward J. Snowden, who was also a Booz Allen contractor, took a vast trove of
documents from the agency that were later passed to journalists, exposing
surveillance programs in the United States and abroad.

The contractor was identified as Harold T. Martin III of Glen Burnie, Md.,
according to a criminal complaint filed in late August and unsealed Wednesday.
Mr. Martin, who at the time of his arrest was working as a contractor for the
Defense Department after leaving the N.S.A., was charged with theft of
government property and the unauthorized removal or retention of classified
documents.

Mr. Martin, 51, was arrested during an F.B.I. raid on his home on Aug. 27. A
neighbor, Murray Bennett, said in a telephone interview on Wednesday that two
dozen F.B.I. agents wearing military-style uniforms and armed with long guns
stormed the house, and later escorted Mr. Martin out in handcuffs.

According to court documents, the F.B.I. discovered thousands of pages of
documents and dozens of computers or other electronic devices at his home and in
his car, a large amount of it classified. The digital media contained ''many
terabytes of information,'' according to the documents. They also discovered
classified documents that had been posted online, including computer code,
officials said. Some of the documents were produced in 2014.

But more than a month later, the authorities cannot say with certainty whether
Mr. Martin leaked the information, passed them on to a third party or whether he
simply downloaded them.

When F.B.I. agents interviewed Mr. Martin after the raid, he initially denied
having taken the documents and digital files, according to the complaint. But he
later told the authorities that he knew he was not authorized to have the
materials. He told the agents, according to the complaint, that ''he knew what
he had done was wrong and that he should not have done it because he knew it was
unauthorized.''

The Justice Department unsealed the complaint -- which was filed in United
States District Court in Baltimore -- after The New York Times notified the
government it intended to publish a story about Mr. Martin.

In a brief statement issued Wednesday, lawyers for Mr. Martin said: ''We have
not seen any evidence. But what we know is that Hal Martin loves his family and
his country. There is no evidence that he intended to betray his country.''

If true, the allegations against Mr. Martin are a setback for the Obama
administration, which has sustained a series of disclosures of classified
information. Along with Mr. Snowden's revelations, the antisecrecy group
WikiLeaks in 2010 disclosed hundreds of thousands of documents from the State
and Defense Departments. In the aftermath of the Snowden disclosures, the
administration took steps to put measures in place to prevent the unauthorized
disclosures of classified information.

Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, defended the Obama
administration's procedures for protecting national security information,
arguing on Wednesday that since Mr. Snowden's disclosures, agencies have
tightened their security measures. He cited the creation of a task force that
sets and monitors security requirements for agencies that handle classified
information, and an overhaul of the government's background check process,
including adding more frequent updates.

The administration has also slashed the number of employees that have access to
classified information, Mr. Earnest said, reducing it by 17 percent in the past
couple of years.

''The president's got a lot of confidence that the vast majority of people who
serve this country in the national security arena, particularly our
professionals in the intelligence community, are genuine American patriots,''
Mr. Earnest said.

Another administration official said that investigators suspected that Mr.
Martin began taking the material before Mr. Snowden's actions became public,
adding that reforms put into place after Mr. Snowden's theft would not have
stopped Mr. Martin.

''This is something that has its origins certainly before Snowden came on the
scene, so many of the forms that have been in place since 2013 wouldn't be
relevant to stopping what happened,'' the official said.

The information believed to have been stolen by Mr. Martin appears to be
different in nature from Mr. Snowden's theft, which included documents that
described the depth and breadth of the N.S.A.'s surveillance.

Mr. Martin is suspected of taking the highly classified computer code developed
by the agency to break into computer systems of adversaries like Russia, China,
Iran and North Korea, some of it outdated.

Several officials said that at the moment it did not look like a traditional
espionage case, but the F.B.I. has not ruled anything out.

Mr. Martin does not fit any of the usual profiles of an ''insider threat,'' and
one administration official said that investigators thought that he was not
politically motivated -- ''not like a Snowden or someone who believes that what
we were doing was illegal and wanted to publicize that.''

Mr. Martin, a Navy veteran, has degrees in economics and information systems and
has been working for a decade on a Ph.D. in computer science. Neighbors
described him as cordial and helpful but knew little about his work.

Law enforcement officials said that the F.B.I. was investigating the possibility
that he had collected the files with no intention of passing them along. That by
itself would represent a serious security vulnerability, but it would put Mr.
Martin in the company of countless other senior Washington officials who have
been caught taking classified information home. One of the officials described
Mr. Martin as a hoarder.

Samuel R. Berger, a former national security adviser, stole classified documents
from the National Archives and hid them under a construction trailer. Alberto R.
Gonzales took home documents about the nation's warrantless wiretapping program
home with him while he was attorney general. As C.I.A. director, John M. Deutch
kept classified information on his home computer.

Law enforcement officials are also looking into whether Mr. Martin was able to
pass the information on, but are also entertaining a theory that he took it with
that intention and then did not follow through.

But there are many unanswered questions about Mr. Martin's case, including when
and how the authorities learned this identity, and when they believe he began
taking information. It is also not known if the case has any connection to the
leak of classified N.S.A. code in August attributed to a group calling itself
the Shadow Brokers, or whether he had any role in a series of leaks of N.S.A.
intercepts involving Japan, Germany and other countries that WikiLeaks has
published since last year.

''We're struggling to figure him out,'' the official said, speaking on the
condition of anonymity because no indictment has been publicly released.

For the N.S.A., which spent two years and hundreds of millions, if not billions
of dollars repairing the damage done by Mr. Snowden, a second insider leaking
the agency's information would be devastating. The agency's director, Adm.
Michael Rogers, who previously ran the Navy's Fleet Cyber Command, was brought
in to restore the agency's credibility, open it to more scrutiny and fix the
problems that allowed Mr. Snowden to sweep up hundreds of thousands of
documents.

It is also problematic for Booz Allen, which has built much of its business on
providing highly technical services to the N.S.A. and other intelligence
agencies.

When the company ''learned of the arrest of one of its employees by the FBI,''
Booz Allen said in a statement on Wednesday, ''we immediately reached out to the
authorities to offer our total cooperation in their investigation, and we fired
the employee. We continue to cooperate fully with the government on its
investigation into this serious matter.''

Follow The New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/06/us/nsa-leak-booz-allen-hamilton.html

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A second theft of information by a contractor would further
embarrass the N.S.A., led by Adm. Michael Rogers, left. Edward J. Snowden,
right, stole documents in 2013 and gave them to journalists. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
YURI GRIPAS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 BRENDAN McDERMID/REUTERS) (A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 6, 2016 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Transcript of the 2016 Debate Between the Running Mates

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Politics; Pg.

LENGTH: 17667 words


Following is a transcript of the vice-presidential debate on Tuesday, as
transcribed by the Federal News Service.

QUIJANO: Good evening. From Longwood University in Farmville, Virginia, and
welcome to the first, and only, vice presidential debate of 2016, sponsored by
the Commission on Presidential Debates.

QUIJANO: I'm Elaine Quijano, anchor at CBSN, and correspondent for CBS News.
It's an honor to moderate this debate between Senator Tim Kaine and Governor
Mike Pence. Both are longtime public servants who are also proud fathers of sons
serving in the U.S. Marines.

The campaigns have agreed to the rules of this 90-minute debate. There will be
nine different segments covering domestic and foreign policy issues. Each
segment will begin with a question to both candidates who will each have two
minutes to answer. Then I'll ask follow-up questions to facilitate a discussion
between the candidates. By coin toss, it's been determined that Senator Kaine
will be first to answer the opening question.

QUIJANO: We have an enthusiastic audience tonight. They've agreed to only
express that enthusiasm once at the end of the debate and right now as we
welcome Governor Mike Pence and Senator Tim Kaine.

(APPLAUSE)

Gentlemen, welcome. It truly is a privilege to be with both of you tonight.

QUIJANO: I'd like to start with the topic of presidential leadership.
Twenty-eight years ago tomorrow night, Lloyd Bentsen said the vice presidential
debate was not about the qualifications for the vice presidency, but about how
if tragedy should occur, the vice president has to step in without any margin
for error, without time for preparation, to take over the responsibility for the
biggest job in the world.

What about your qualities, your skills, and your temperament equip you to step
into that role at a moment's notice? Senator Kaine?

KAINE: Elaine, thank you for being here tonight, and, Governor Pence, welcome.
It is so great to be back at Longwood University in Farmville, Virginia.

This is a very special place. Sixty-five years ago, a young, courageous woman,
Barbara Johns, led a walkout of her high school, Moton High School. She made
history by protesting school segregation. She believed our nation was stronger
together. And that walkout led to the Brown v. Board of Education decision that
moved us down the path toward equality.

I am so proud to be running with another strong, history-making woman, Hillary
Clinton, to be president of the United States. I'm proud because her vision of
stronger together, building an economy that works for all, not just those at the
top, being safe in the world not only with a strong military, but also strong
alliances to battle terrorism and climate change, and also to build a community
of respect, just like Barbara Johns tried to do 65 years ago. That's why I'm so
proud to be her running mate.

Hillary told me why she asked me to be her running mate. She said the test of a
Clinton administration will not be the signing of a bill or the passage of a
bill. It'll be whether we can make somebody's life better, whether we can make a
classroom better learning environment for schoolkids or teachers, whether we can
make a safer -- it's going to be about results.

And she said to me, you've been a missionary and a civil rights lawyer. You've
been a city councilman and mayor. You've been a lieutenant governor and governor
and now a U.S. senator. I think you will help me figure out how to govern this
nation so that we always keep in mind that the success of the administration is
the difference we make in people's lives.

And that's what I bring to the ticket, that experience having served at all
levels of government. But my primary role is to be Hillary Clinton's right-hand
person and strong supporter as she puts together the most historic
administration possible. And I relish that role. I'm so proud of her.

KAINE: I'll just say this: We trust Hillary Clinton, my wife and I, and we trust
her with the most important thing in our life. We have a son deployed overseas
in the Marine Corps right now. We trust Hillary Clinton as president and
commander-in-chief, but the thought of Donald Trump as commander-in-chief scares
us to death.

QUIJANO: Governor Pence?

PENCE: Well, first off, thank you, Elaine, and thank you to -- thank you to
Norwood University for their wonderful hospitality and the Commission on
Presidential Debates. It's deeply humbling for me to be here, to be surrounded
by my -- my wonderful family.

And, Senator Kaine, it's an honor to be here with you, as well. And I just -- I
also want to say -- I want to say thanks to everyone that's looking in tonight,
who understands what an enormously important time this is in the life of our
nation.

For the last seven-and-a-half years, we've seen America's place in the world
weakened. We've seen an economy stifled by more taxes, more regulation, a war on
coal, and a failing health care reform come to be known as Obamacare, and the
American people know that we need to make a change. And so I want to thank all
of you for being -- being with us tonight.

PENCE: I also want to thank Donald Trump for making that call and inviting us to
be a part of this ticket. I have to tell you, I'm a -- I'm a small-town boy from
a place not too different from Farmville. I grew up with a cornfield in my
backyard. My grandfather had immigrated to this country when he was about my
son's age. My mom and dad built a -- everything that matters in a small town in
Southern Indiana. They built a family and -- and a good name and a business. And
they raised a family. And I dreamed some day of representing my home town in
Washington, D.C., but I -- honestly, Elaine, I never imagined -- never imagined
I'd have the opportunity to be governor of the state that I love, let alone be
sitting at a table like this in this kind of a position.

So to answer your question, I would say I -- I would hope that if -- if the
responsibility ever fell to me in this role, that I would meet it with the way
that I'm going to meet the responsibility should I be elected vice president of
the United States. And that's to bring a lifetime of experience, a lifetime
growing up in a small town, a lifetime where I've served in the Congress of the
United States, where -- where I've led a state that works in the great state of
Indiana, and whatever other responsibilities might follow from this, I -- I
would hope and, frankly, I would pray to be able to meet that moment with that
-- that lifetime of experience.

QUIJANO: Senator Kaine, on the campaign trail, you praised Secretary Clinton's
character, including her commitment to public service, yet 60 percent of voters
don't think she's trustworthy. Why do so many people distrust her? Is it because
they have questions about her e-mails and the Clinton Foundation?

KAINE: Elaine, let me tell you why I trust Hillary Clinton. Here's what people
should look at as they look at a public servant. Do they have a passion in their
life that showed up before they were in public life? And have they held onto
that passion throughout their life, regardless of whether they were in office or
not, succeeding or failing?

Hillary Clinton has that passion. From a time as a kid in a Methodist youth
group in the suburbs of Chicago, she has been focused on serving others with a
special focus on empowering families and kids. As a civil rights lawyer in the
South, with the Children's Defense Fund, first lady of Arkansas and this
country, senator, secretary of state, it's always been about putting others
first. And that's a sharp contrast with Donald Trump.

Donald Trump always puts himself first. He built a business career, in the words
of one of his own campaign staffers, ''off the backs of the little guy.'' And as
a candidate, he started his campaign with a speech where he called Mexicans
rapists and criminals, and he has pursued the discredited and really outrageous
lie that President Obama wasn't born in the United States.

It is so painful to suggest that we go back to think about these days where an
African-American could not be a citizen of the United States. And I can't
imagine how Governor Pence can defend the insult- driven selfish ''me first''
style of Donald Trump.

QUIJANO: Governor Pence, let me ask you, you have said Donald Trump is, quote,
''thoughtful, compassionate, and steady.'' Yet 67 percent of voters feel he is a
risky choice, and 65 percent feel he does not have the right kind of temperament
to be president. Why do so many Americans think Mr. Trump is simply too erratic?

PENCE: Well, let me -- let me say first and foremost that, Senator, you and
Hillary Clinton would know a lot about an insult- driven campaign. It really is
remarkable. At a time when literally, in the wake of Hillary Clinton's tenure as
secretary of state, where she was the architect of the Obama administration's
foreign policy, we see entire portions of the world, particularly the wider
Middle East, literally spinning out of control. I mean, the situation we're
watching hour by hour in Syria today is the result of the failed foreign policy
and the weak foreign policy that Hillary Clinton helped lead in this
administration and create. The newly emboldened -- the aggression of Russia,
whether it was in Ukraine or now they're heavy-handed approach...

KAINE: You guys love Russia. You both have said...

PENCE: ... their heavy-handed approach.

KAINE: You both have said -- you both have said Vladimir Putin is a better
leader than the president.

PENCE: Well...

(CROSSTALK)

QUIJANO: Well, we're going to get to Russia in just a moment. But I do want to
get back to the question at...

PENCE: But in the midst -- Elaine, thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Senator,
I'll...

KAINE: These guys have praised Vladimir Putin as a great leader. How can that...

(CROSSTALK)

QUIJANO: Yes, and we will get to that, Senator. We do have that coming up here.
But in the meantime, the questions...

PENCE: Well, Senator, I must have hit a...

(CROSSTALK)

PENCE: I must have hit a nerve here.

QUIJANO: Why the disconnect?

PENCE: Because at a time of great challenge in the life of this nation, where
we've weakened America's place in the world, stifled America's economy, the
campaign of Hillary Clinton and Tim Kaine has been an avalanche of insults.

Look, to get to your question about trustworthiness, Donald Trump has built a
business through hard times and through good times. He's brought an
extraordinary business acumen. He's employed tens of thousands of people in this
country.

KAINE: And paid few taxes and lost a billion a year.

(CROSSTALK)

QUIJANO: And why the disconnect with your running mate?

PENCE: But there's a -- there's a reason why people question the trustworthiness
of Hillary Clinton. And that's because they're paying attention. I mean, the
reality is, when she was secretary of state, Senator, come on. She had a Clinton
Foundation accepting contributions from foreign governments.

KAINE: You are Donald Trump's apprentice. Let me talk about this...

(CROSSTALK)

PENCE: Senator, I think I'm still on my time.

KAINE: Well, I think -- isn't this a discussion?

QUIJANO: This is our open discussion.

KAINE: Yeah, let's talk about the state of...

(CROSSTALK)

PENCE: Well, let me interrupt -- let me interrupt you and finish my sentence, if
I can.

KAINE: Finish your sentence.

PENCE: The Clinton Foundation accepted foreign contributions from foreign
governments and foreign donors while she was secretary of state.

KAINE: OK, now I can weigh in. Now...

PENCE: She had a private server...

KAINE: Now, I get to weigh in. Now, let me just say this...

PENCE: ... that was discovered...

(CROSSTALK)

QUIJANO: ... Senator, you have an opportunity to respond.

PENCE: ... keep that pay to play process out of the reach of the public.

KAINE: Governor Pence -- Governor Pence doesn't think the world's going so well
and he, you know, is going to say it's everybody's fault.

PENCE: Do you?

KAINE: Let me tell you this. When Hillary Clinton became secretary of state,
Governor Pence, did you know that Osama bin Laden was alive?

PENCE: Yes.

KAINE: Do you know that we had 175,000 troops deployed in the battlefield in
Iraq and Afghanistan? Do you know that Iran was racing toward a nuclear weapon
and Russia was expanding its stockpile?

Under Secretary Clinton's leadership, she was part of the national team, public
safety team that went after and revived the dormant hunt against bin Laden and
wiped him off the face of the Earth. She worked to deal with the Russians to
reduce their chemical weapons stockpile. She worked a tough negotiation with
nations around the world to eliminate the Iranian nuclear weapons program
without firing a shot.

PENCE: Eliminate the Iranian nuclear weapons program?

KAINE: Absolutely, without firing a shot. And instead of 175,000 American troops
deployed overseas, we now have 15,000.

PENCE: Right and...

KAINE: These are very, very good things.

PENCE: And Iraq has been overrun by ISIS, because Hillary Clinton failed to
renegotiate...

KAINE: Well, if you want to put more American troops in Iraq, you can propose
that.

PENCE: Hillary Clinton -- Hillary Clinton -- Hillary Clinton failed to
renegotiate a status of forces agreement...

KAINE: No, that is incorrect. That's incorrect.

PENCE: And so we removed -- we removed all of our...

QUIJANO: Gentlemen, we'll get to...

(CROSSTALK)

PENCE: ... troops from Iraq, and ISIS was able to be conjured up in that vacuum.

KAINE: But I'd like to correct...

PENCE: ... and overrun vast areas of Iraq.

KAINE: Governor, President Bush said we would leave Iraq at the end of 2011.
And, Elaine, Iraq didn't want our troops to stay, and they wouldn't give us the
protection for our troops. And guess what? If a nation where our troops are
serving does not want us to stay, we're not going to stay without their
protection.

PENCE: It was a failure of the secretary of state...

QUIJANO: We need to move on to the next topic, gentlemen.

KAINE: If Governor Pence wants to put more troops back in Iraq, that's...

QUIJANO: There are a lot of people wondering in this country about the economy.
Let's turn to the issue of the economy.

KAINE: OK.

QUIJANO: According to the nonpartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal
Budget, neither of your economic plans will reduce the growing $19 trillion
gross national debt. In fact, your plans would add even more to it.

Both of you were governors who balanced state budgets. Are you concerned that
adding more to the debt could be disastrous for the country. Governor Pence?

PENCE: I think the fact that -- that under this past administration was of which
Hillary Clinton was a part, we've almost doubled the national debt is atrocious.
I mean, I'm very proud of the fact that -- I come from a state that works. The
state of Indiana has balanced budgets. We cut taxes, we've made record
investments in education and in infrastructure, and I still finish my term with
$2 billion in the bank.

That's a little bit different than when Senator Kaine was governor here in
Virginia. He actually -- he actually tried to raise taxes by about $4 billion.
He left his state about $2 billion in the hole. In the state of Indiana, we've
cut unemployment in half; unemployment doubled when he was governor.

PENCE: But I think he's a very fitting running mate for Hillary Clinton, because
in the wake of a season where American families are struggling in this economy
under the weight of higher taxes and Obamacare and the war on coal and the
stifling avalanche of regulation coming out of this administration, Hillary
Clinton and Tim Kaine want more of the same. It really is remarkable that they
actually are advocating a trillion dollars in tax increases, which I get that.
You tried to raise taxes here in Virginia and were unsuccessful.

But a trillion dollars in tax increases, more regulation, more of the same war
on coal, and more of Obamacare that now even former President Bill Clinton calls
Obamacare a crazy plan. But Hillary Clinton and Tim Kaine want to build on
Obamacare. They want to expand it into a single-payer program. And for all the
world, Hillary Clinton just thinks Obamacare is a good start.

Look, Donald Trump and I have a plan to get this economy moving again just the
way that it worked in the 1980s, just the way it worked in the 1960s, and that
is by lowering taxes across the board for working families, small businesses and
family farms, ending the war on coal that is hurting jobs and hurting this
economy even here in Virginia, repealing Obamacare lock, stock, and barrel, and
repealing all of the executive orders that Barack Obama has signed that are
stifling economic growth in this economy.

We can get America moving again. Put on top of that the kind of trade deals
that'll put the American worker first, and you've got a prescription for real
growth. And when you get the economy growing, Elaine, that's when you can deal
with the national debt. When we get back to 3.5 percent to 4 percent growth with
Donald Trump's plan will do, then we're going to have the resources to meet our
nation's needs at home and abroad, and we're going to have the ability to bring
down the national debt.

QUIJANO: Senator Kaine?

KAINE: Elaine, on the economy, there's a fundamental choice for the American
electorate. Do you want a ''you're hired'' president in Hillary Clinton or do
you want a ''you're fired'' president in Donald Trump? I think that's not such a
hard choice.

Hillary and I have a plan that's on the table that's a ''you're hired'' plan.
Five components. First thing we do is we invest in manufacturing,
infrastructure, and research in the clean energy jobs of tomorrow. Second thing
is we invest in our workforce, from pre-K education to great teachers to
debt-free college and tuition-free college for families that make less than
$125,000 a year.

Third, we promote fairness by raising the minimum wage, so you can't work
full-time and be under the poverty level, and by paying women equal pay for
equal work.

Fourth, we promote small business growth, just as we've done in Virginia, to
make it easier to start and grow small businesses. Hillary and I each grew up in
small-business families. My dad, who ran an iron working and welding shop, is
here tonight.

And, fifth, we have a tax plan that targets tax relief to middle- class
individuals and small businesses and asks those at the very top who've benefited
as we've come out of recession to pay more.

KAINE: The Trump plan is a different plan. It's a ''you're fired'' plan. And
there's two key elements to it. First, Donald Trump said wages are too high. And
both Donald Trump and Mike Pence think we ought to eliminate the federal minimum
wage.

Mike Pence, when he was in Congress, voted against raising the minimum wage
above $5.15. And he has been a one-man bulwark against minimum wage increases in
Indiana.

The second component of the plan is massive tax breaks for the very top,
trillions of dollars of tax breaks for people just like Donald Trump. The
problem with this, Elaine, is that's exactly what we did 10 years ago and it put
the economy into the deepest recession -- the deepest recession since the 1930s.

Independent analysts say the Clinton plan would grow the economy by 10.5 million
jobs. The Trump plan would cost 3.5 million jobs. And Donald Trump -- why would
he do this? Because his tax plan basically helps him. And if he ever met his
promise and he gave his tax returns to the American public like he said he
would, we would see just how much his economic plan is really a Trump-first
plan.

QUIJANO: On that point, Governor Pence, recently the New York Times released
part of Mr. Trump's 1995 tax return and reported that he could have avoided
paying federal income taxes for years. Yesterday, Mr. Trump said he brilliantly
used the laws to pay as little tax as legally possible. Does that seem fair to
you?

PENCE: Well, first, let me say, I appreciated the ''you're hired,'' ''you're
fired'' thing, Senator. You use that a whole lot. And I think your running mate
used a lot of pre-done lines.

Look, what -- what you all just heard out there is more taxes, $2 trillion in
more spending, more deficits, more debt, more government. And if you think
that's all working, then you look at the other side of the table. I mean, the
truth of the matter is, the policies of this administration, which Hillary
Clinton and Senator Kaine want to continue, have run this economy into a ditch.
We're in the...

KAINE: Fifteen million new jobs?

PENCE: ... slowest economic recovery since the Great Depression.

KAINE: Fifteen million new jobs?

QUIJANO: Governor... (CROSSTALK)

PENCE: There are millions more people living in poverty today than the day that
Barack Obama with Hillary Clinton at his side...

KAINE: And the poverty level and the median income...

PENCE: ... stepped into the Oval Office.

KAINE: ... improved dramatically between 2014 and 2015.

PENCE: You -- honestly, Senator, you can roll out the numbers and the sunny
side, but I got to tell you, people in Scranton know different. People in Fort
Wayne, Indiana, know different. I mean, this economy is struggling. The answer
to this economy is not more taxes.

KAINE: But it's not the giveaway tax relief to the folks at the top.

PENCE: It's not more spending...

(CROSSTALK)

KAINE: I am interested to hear whether he'll defend his running mate's not
releasing taxes and not paying taxes.

PENCE: Absolutely I will.

QUIJANO: Governor, with all due respect, the question was about whether it seems
fair to you that Mr. Trump said he brilliantly used the laws to pay as little
tax as legally possible.

PENCE: Well, this is probably the difference between Donald Trump and Hillary
Clinton and Senator Kaine. And, I mean, Hillary Clinton and Senator Kaine -- God
bless you for it, career public servants, that's great -- Donald Trump is a
businessman, not a career politician. He actually built a business.

Those tax returns that were -- that came out publicly this week show that he
faced some pretty tough times 20 years ago. But like virtually every other
business, including the New York Times not too long ago, he used what's called
net operating loss. We have a tax code, Senator, that actually is designed to
encourage entrepreneurship in this country.

KAINE: But why won't he release his tax returns?

PENCE: Well, we're answering the question about -- about a business thing, is
he...

KAINE: I do want to come back to that, but...

PENCE: His tax returns -- his tax returns showed he went through a very
difficult time, but he used the tax code just the way it's supposed to be used.
And he did it brilliantly. KAINE: How do you know that? You haven't seen his tax
returns.

PENCE: He created a runway -- because he's created a business that's worth
billions of dollars today.

KAINE: How do you know that?

PENCE: And with regard to paying taxes, this whole riff about not paying taxes
and people saying he didn't pay taxes for years, Donald Trump has created tens
of thousands of jobs. And he's paid payroll taxes, sales taxes, property
taxes...

KAINE: Elaine, let me talk about something.

QUIJANO: Senator, I'm going to give you about 30 seconds to respond, and I have
question on Social Security for you.

KAINE: OK.

PENCE: The only issue on taxes -- Hillary Clinton is going to raise taxes, and
Donald Trump and I are going to cut them.

KAINE: Donald Trump started this campaign in 2014 and he said, ''If I run for
president, I will absolutely release my taxes.'' He's broken his first...

PENCE: And he will.

KAINE: He's broken his first promise. Second, he stood on the stage...

PENCE: He hasn't broken his promise. He said he's...

KAINE: He stood on the stage last week and when Hillary said, you haven't been
paying taxes, he said, ''That makes me smart.'' So it's smart not to pay for our
military? It's smart not to pay for veterans? It's smart not to pay for
teachers? And I guess all of us who do pay for those things, I guess we're
stupid. And the last thing I'll say is this...

PENCE: Senator, do you take all the deductions that you're entitled to?

KAINE: The last thing -- the last thing I want to ask Governor Pence is...

PENCE: I do.

KAINE: Governor Pence had to give Donald Trump his tax returns to show he was
qualified to be vice president. Donald Trump must give the American public his
tax returns to show that he's qualified to be president. And he's breaking his
promise.

PENCE: Elaine, I have to respond to this.

QUIJANO: You get very little time, 20 seconds.

PENCE: I'll be -- I'll be very respectful.

QUIJANO: Governor?

PENCE: Look, Donald Trump has filed over 100 pages of financial disclosure,
which is what the law requires.

KAINE: But he said he would release his tax returns.

QUIJANO: All right, Gentlemen...

PENCE: The American people can review that. And he's going -- Senator, he's
going to release his tax returns when the audit is over...

QUIJANO: ... I need to ask you about Social Security...

KAINE: Richard Nixon released tax returns when he was under audit.

PENCE: They're going to raise your taxes. We're going to cut your taxes.

QUIJANO: Gentlemen...

KAINE: If you can't meet Nixon's standard...

QUIJANO: The people at home cannot understand either one of you when you speak
over each other. I would please ask you to wait until it is that the other is
finished.

KAINE: All right. We're having fun up here.

QUIJANO: Senator Kaine, on the issue of Social Security, in 18 years, when the
Social Security Trust Funds run out of money, you'll be 76. The Committee for a
Responsible Federal Budget estimates your benefits could be cut by as much as
$7,500 per year. What would your administration do to prevent this cut?

KAINE: First, we're going to protect Social Security, which is one of the
greatest programs that the American government has ever done. It happened at a
time when you would work your whole life, your whole life, raising your kids,
working, being a Little League coach or a Sunday school teacher, and then you
would retire into poverty. And Social Security has enabled people to retire with
dignity and overwhelmingly not be in poverty.

We have to keep it solvent. And we will keep it solvent. And we'll look for
strategies like adjusting the payroll tax cap upward in order to do that.

Here's what Hillary and I will not do. And I want to make this very plain. We
will never, ever engage in a risky scheme to privatize Social Security. Donald
Trump wrote a book and he said Social Security is a Ponzi scheme and
privatization would be good for all of us.

And when Congressman Pence was in Congress, he was the chief cheerleader for the
privatization of Social Security. Even after President Bush stopped pushing for
it, Congressman Pence kept pushing for it. We're going to stand up against
efforts to privatize Social Security. And we'll look for ways to keep it solvent
going forward, focusing primarily on the payroll tax cap.

QUIJANO: Governor Pence, I'll give you an opportunity to respond.

PENCE: Well, thanks, Elaine. There they go again. OK...

KAINE: Go read -- go read the book.

PENCE: All Donald Trump -- all Donald Trump and I have said about Social
Security is we're going to meet our obligations to our seniors. That's it.

KAINE: Go read the book.

PENCE: We've said we're going to meet the obligations of Medicare. That's what
this campaign is really about, Senator. And I get, this is -- this is the old
scare tactic that they roll out...

KAINE: But -- but you have a voting record, Governor.

PENCE: And I get all of that. I just, look...

KAINE: I...

PENCE: There's a question that you asked a little bit earlier that I want to go
back to.

KAINE: I can't believe that you won't defend your own voting record.

PENCE: I have to go back to.

QUIJANO: We...

PENCE: Well, look, I -- you're running with Hillary Clinton, who wants to raise
taxes by $1 trillion, increase spending by $2 trillion, and you say you're going
to keep the promises of Social Security. Donald Trump and I are going to cut
taxes. We're going to -- we're going to -- we're going to...

KAINE: You're not going to cut taxes. You're going to raise taxes on the middle
class.

PENCE: ... reform government programs so we can meet the obligations of Social
Security and Medicare.

QUIJANO: All right. PENCE: Stay on the path that your party has us on, we're
going to be in a -- in a mountain range of debt. And we're going to face hard
choices and...

(CROSSTALK)

QUIJANO: Gentleman, I want to move on now.

KAINE: You did ask this question about debt, and the debt explosion on the Trump
plan is much, much bigger than anything on the Clinton side.

QUIJANO: All right. Let me move on now...

PENCE: Three hundred and five (ph) economists said your plan is bad for the
economy.

QUIJANO: ... to the issue of law enforcement and race relations. Law enforcement
and race relations. After the Dallas police shooting, Police Chief David Brown
said, quote, ''We're asking cops to do too much in this country. Every societal
failure we put it off on the cops to solve. Not enough mental health funding,
not enough drug addiction funding, schools fail, let's give it to the cops.''

Do we ask too much of police officers in this country? And how would you
specifically address the chief's concerns? Senator Kaine?

KAINE: Elaine, I think that's a very fair comment. I think we put a lot on
police shoulders. And this is something I got a lot of scar tissue and
experience on.

I was a city councilman and mayor in Richmond. And when I came in, we had one of
the highest homicide rates in the United States. We fought very, very hard over
the course of my time in local office with our police department, and we reduced
our homicide rate nearly in half.

And then when I was governor of Virginia, we worked hard, too. And we did
something we had really wanted to do. For the first time ever, we cracked the
top 10, 10 safest states, because we worked together.

Here's what I learned as a mayor and a governor. The way you make communities
safer and the way you make police safer is through community policing. You build
the bonds between the community and the police force, build bonds of
understanding, and then when people feel comfortable in their communities, that
gap between the police and the communities they serve narrows. And when that gap
narrows, it's safer for the communities and it's safer for the police.

That model still works across our country, but there are some other models that
don't work, an overly aggressive, more militarized model. Donald Trump recently
said we need to do more stop-and-frisk around the country. That would be a big
mistake because it polarizes the relationship between the police and the
community.

So here's what we'll do. We'll focus on community policing. We will focus on --
and Hillary Clinton has rolled out a really comprehensive mental health reform
package that she worked on with law enforcement professionals, and we will also
fight the scourge of gun violence in the United States.

I'm a gun-owner. I'm a strong Second Amendment supporter. But I've got a lot of
scar tissue, because when I was governor of Virginia, there was a horrible
shooting at Virginia Tech, and we learned that through that painful situation
that gaps in the background record check system should have been closed and it
could have prevented that crime, and so we're going to work to do things like
close background record checks. And if we do, we won't have the tragedies that
we did.

One of those killed at Virginia Tech was a guy named Liviu Librescu. He was a
70-plus-year-old Romanian Holocaust survivor. He had survived the Holocaust.
Then he survived the Soviet Union takeover of his country. But then he was a
visiting professor at Virginia Tech, and he couldn't survive the scourge of gun
violence.

We can support the Second Amendment and do things like background record checks
and make us safer, and that will make police safer, too.

QUIJANO: Governor Pence?

PENCE: You know, my uncle was a cop, a career cop, on the beat in downtown
Chicago. He was my hero when I was growing up. And we'd go up to visit my dad's
family in Chicago. My three brothers and I would marvel at my uncle when he
would come out in his uniform, sidearm at his side.

Police officers are the best of us. And the men and women, white,
African-American, Asian, Latino, Hispanic, they put their lives on the line
every single day. And let my say, at the risk of agreeing with you, community
policing is a great idea. It's worked in the Hoosier state. And we fully support
that.

Donald Trump and I are going to make sure that law enforcement have the
resources and the tools to be able to really restore law and order to the cities
and communities in this nation. It's probably -- probably why the 330,000
members of the Fraternal Order of Police endorsed Donald Trump as the next
president of the United States of America, because they see his commitment to
them. They see his commitment to law and order.

But they also -- they also hear the bad mouthing, the bad mouthing that comes
from people that seize upon tragedy in the wake of police action shootings as --
as a reason to -- to use a broad brush to accuse law enforcement of -- of
implicit bias or institutional racism. And that really has got to stop.

I mean, when an African-American police officer in Charlotte named Brentley
Vinson, an all-star football player who went to Liberty University here in the
state, came home, followed his dad into law enforcement, joined the force in
Charlotte, joined the force in Charlotte in 2014, was involved in a police
action shooting that claimed the life of Keith -- Keith Lamont Scott, it was a
tragedy. I mean, I -- we -- we mourn with those who mourn. We -- we grieve with
those who grieve. And we're saddened at the loss of life.

But Hillary Clinton actually referred to that moment as an example of implicit
bias in the police force, where -- where she used -- when she was asked in the
debate a week ago whether there was implicit bias in law enforcement, her only
answer was that there's implicit bias in everyone in the United States. I just
think...

KAINE: Can I -- can I explain...

PENCE: ... I just think what we ought to do is we ought to stop seizing on these
moments of tragedy. We ought to assure the public that we'll have a full and
complete and transparent investigation whenever there's a loss of life because
of police action. But, Senator, please, you know, enough of this seeking every
opportunity to demean law enforcement broadly by making the accusation of
implicit bias every time tragedy occurs.

KAINE: Elaine -- Elaine, people shouldn't be afraid to bring up issues of bias
in law enforcement. And if you're afraid to have...

PENCE: I'm not afraid to bring that up.

KAINE: And if -- if you're afraid to have the discussion, you'll never solve it.
And so here's -- here's an example, heartbreaking. We would agree this was a
heartbreaking example.

The guy, Philando Castile, who was killed in St. Paul, he was a worker, a valued
worker in a local school. And he was killed for no apparent reason in an
incident that will be discussed and will be investigated.

But when folks went and explored this situation, what they found is that
Philando Castile, who was a -- they called him Mr. Rogers with Dreadlocks in the
school that he worked. The kids loved him. But he had been stopped by police 40
or 50 times before that fatal incident. And if you look at sentencing in this
country, African-Americans and Latinos get sentenced for the same crimes at very
different rates.

PENCE: We need criminal justice reform.

KAINE: Well, we do.

PENCE: Indiana has passed criminal justice reform.

KAINE: But I just want to say, those who say that we should not...

PENCE: But that's not what you're talking about.

KAINE: ... we should not be able to bring up and talk about bias in the system,
we'll never solve the problem...

QUIJANO: Governor Pence...

(CROSSTALK)

QUIJANO: Governor Pence...

PENCE: Senator, when African-American police officers involved in a police
action shooting involving an African-American, why would Hillary Clinton accuse
that African-American police officer of implicit bias?

KAINE: Well, I guess I can't believe you are defending the position that there
is no bias and it's a topic we don't even...

(CROSSTALK)

QUIJANO: Governor Pence, I have a question on that point.

PENCE: I did not make that statement. I...

QUIJANO: Your fellow Republican, Governor Pence, Senator Tim Scott, who is
African-American, recently spoke on the Senate floor. He said he was stopped
seven times by law enforcement in one year.

KAINE: A U.S. senator.

QUIJANO: He said, ''I have felt the anger, the frustration, the sadness, and the
humiliation that comes with feeling like you're being targeted for nothing more
than being just yourself.'' What would you say to Senator Scott about his
experiences?

PENCE: Well, I have the deepest respect for Senator Scott, and he's a close
friend. And what I would say is that we -- we need to adopt criminal justice
reform nationally. I -- I signed criminal justice reform in the state of
Indiana, Senator, and we're very proud of it.

I worked when I was Congress on a second chance act. We have got to do a better
job recognizing and correcting the errors in the system that do reflect on
institutional bias in criminal justice. But what -- what -- what Donald Trump
and I are saying is let's not have the reflex of assuming the worst of men and
women in law enforcement. We truly do believe that law enforcement is not a
force for racism or division in our country...

KAINE: Elaine, can I...

QUIJANO: So what would you say to Senator Scott, Governor?

PENCE: Law enforcement in this country is a force for good. They are the -- they
truly are people that put their lives on the line every single day. But I would
-- I would suggest to you, what we need to do is assert a stronger leadership at
the national level to support law enforcement. You just heard Senator Kaine
reject stop-and-frisk. Well, I would suggest to you that the families that live
in our inner cities that are besieged by crime...

KAINE: Elaine, let me -- let me...

QUIJANO: Governor, the question is about Senator Scott. What would -- what would
you tell Senator Scott?

KAINE: Elaine, if I could -- if I could jump in. I've heard Senator Scott make
that eloquent plea. And look, criminal justice is about respecting the law and
being respected by the law. So there is a fundamental respect issue here.

And I just want to talk about the tone that's set from the top. Donald Trump
during his campaign has called Mexicans rapists and criminals. He's called women
slobs, pigs, dogs, disgusting. I don't like saying that in front of my wife and
my mother. He attacked an Indiana-born federal judge and said he was unqualified
to hear a federal lawsuit because his parents were Mexican. He went after John
McCain, a POW, and said he wasn't hero because he'd been captured. He said
African-Americans are living in Hell. And he perpetrated this outrageous and
bigoted lie that President Obama is not a U.S. citizen.

If you want to have a society where people are respected and respect laws, you
can't have somebody at the top who demeans every group that he talks about. And
I just -- again, I cannot believe that Governor Pence will defend the
insult-driven campaign that Donald Trump has run.

QUIJANO: All right. I want to turn to our next segment now, immigration. Your
running mates have both said that undocumented immigrants who have committed
violent crimes should be deported. What would you tell the millions of
undocumented immigrants who have not committed violent crimes? Governor Pence?

PENCE: Donald Trump's laid out a plan to end illegal immigration once and for
all in this country. We've been talking it to death for 20 years. Hillary
Clinton and Tim Kaine want to continue the policies of open borders, amnesty,
catch and release, sanctuary cities, all the things that are driving -- that are
driving wages down in this country, Senator, and also too often with criminal
aliens in the country, it's bringing heartbreak.

But I -- Donald Trump has a plan that he laid out in Arizona, that will deal
systemically with illegal immigration, beginning with border security, internal
enforcement. It's probably why for the first time in the history of Immigration
and Customs Enforcement their union actually endorsed Donald Trump as the next
president of the United States, because they know they need help to enforce the
laws of this country.

And Donald Trump has laid out a priority to remove criminal aliens, remove
people that have overstayed their visas. And -- and once we have accomplished
all of that, which will -- which will strengthen our economy, strengthen the
rule of law in the country and make our communities safer once the criminal
aliens are out, then we'll deal with those that remain.

But I have to tell you, I just -- I was listening to the avalanche of insults
coming out of Senator Kaine a minute ago. KAINE: These were Donald's -- hold on
a second, Governor.

(CROSSTALK)

PENCE: It's my time, Senator.

QUIJANO: It is, in fact, the governor's time.

KAINE: I apologize. It's your two minutes. I apologize.

PENCE: Thanks. I forgive you. He says ours is an insult-driven campaign. Did you
all just hear that? Ours is an insult-driven campaign?

I mean, to be honest with you, if Donald Trump had said all of the things that
you've said he said in the way you said he said them, he still wouldn't have a
fraction of the insults that Hillary Clinton leveled when she said that half of
our supporters were a basket of deplorables. It's -- she said they were
irredeemable, they were not American.

I mean, it's extraordinary. And then she labeled one after another ''ism'' on
millions of Americans who believe that we can have a stronger America at home
and abroad, who believe we can get this economy moving again, who believe that
we can end illegal immigration once and for all. So, Senator, this -- this
insult-driven campaign, I mean...

QUIJANO: Governor...

PENCE: That's small potatoes compared to Hillary Clinton...

QUIJANO: Senator Kaine?

PENCE: .... calling half of Donald Trump's supporters a basket of deplorables.

KAINE: Hillary Clinton said something on the campaign trail, and the very next
day, she said, you know what, I shouldn't have said that.

PENCE: She said she shouldn't have said half.

QUIJANO: Governor, this is Senator Kaine's two minutes, please.

KAINE: Yeah, that's right, so now we're even.

PENCE: Yeah.

(LAUGHTER)

KAINE: Look for Donald trump apologizing to John McCain for saying he wasn't a
hero...

PENCE: Oh...

KAINE: ... to Donald Trump apologizing for calling women slobs, pigs, dogs,
disgusting.

PENCE: She apologized for saying ''half.''

QUIJANO: Governor. It is his two minutes, please.

KAINE: Did Donald Trump apologize for taking after somebody in a Twitter war and
making fun of her weight? Did he apologize for saying African-Americans are
living in Hell? Did he apologize for saying President Obama was not even a
citizen of the United States? You will look in vain to see Donald Trump ever
taking responsibility for anybody and apologizing.

Immigration. There's two plans on the table. Hillary and I believe in
comprehensive immigration reform. Donald Trump believes in deportation nation.
You've got to pick your choice. Hillary and I want a bipartisan reform that will
put keeping families together as the top goal, second, that will help focus
enforcement efforts on those who are violent, third, that will do more border
control, and, fourth, that will provide a path to citizenship for those who work
hard, pay taxes, play by the rules, and take criminal background record checks.

That's our proposal. Donald Trump proposes to deport 16 million people, 11
million who are here without documents. And both Donald Trump and Mike Pence
want to get rid of birthright citizenship. So if you're born here, but your
parents don't have documents, they want to eliminate that. That's another 4.5
million people.

These guys -- and Donald Trump have said it -- deportation force. They want to
go house to house, school to school, business to business, and kick out 16
million people. And I cannot believe...

PENCE: That's nonsense. That's nonsense.

KAINE: I cannot believe that Governor Pence would sit here and defend his
running mate's claim that we should create a deportation force to -- so that
they'll all be gone.

PENCE: Senator, we have a deportation force. It's called Immigrations and
Customs Enforcement. And the union for Immigrations and Customs Enforcement for
the first time in their history endorsed Donald Trump to be the next president
of the United States of America.

KAINE: So you like the 16 million deportations?

PENCE: Senator, that's -- that's nonsense. Look, what you just heard is they
have a plan for open borders, amnesty. That's...

(CROSSTALK)

KAINE: Our plan is like Ronald Reagan's plan from 1986.

PENCE: They call it comprehensive immigration reform -- they call it
comprehensive immigration reform on Capitol Hill. We all know the routine. It's
amnesty. And you heard one of the last things he mentioned was border security.

PENCE: That's how Washington always plays it.

KAINE: No, I...

PENCE: They always say we're going to do this, we're going to do that, we'll
eventually get the border...

(CROSSTALK)

KAINE: ... border security three years ago, and Governor Pence was against it.

QUIJANO: Governor, Mr. Trump has said...

PENCE: Ronald Reagan said a nation without borders is not a nation. Donald Trump
is committed to restoring the borders of this nation and securing our nation,
enforcing our laws.

QUIJANO: So, Governor, how would these millions of undocumented immigrants
leave? Would they be forcibly removed?

PENCE: Well, I think Donald Trump laid out a series of priorities that doesn't
ends with border security. It begins with border security. And after we secure
the border, not only build a wall, but beneath the ground and in the air, we do
internal enforcement.

But he said the focus has to be on criminal aliens. We just -- we just had a
conversation about law enforcement. We just had a conversation about the -- the
violence that's besetting our cities. The reality is that there's heartbreak and
tragedy that has struck American families because people that came into this
country illegally are now involved in criminal enterprise and activity. And we
don't have the resources or the will to deport them systemically.

Donald Trump has said we're going to move those people out, people who've
overstayed their visas. We're going to enforce the law of this country. We're
going to strengthen Immigrations and Customs Enforcements with more resources
and more personnel to be able to do that. And then Donald Trump has made it
clear, once we've done all of those things, that we're going to reform the
immigration system that we have...

KAINE: I just have to correct Governor Pence....

PENCE: ... where people can come into this country.

KAINE: I have to...

PENCE: That's the order that you should do it. Border security, removing
criminal aliens, upholding with law, and then -- but then, Senator, I'll work
you when you go back to the Senate, I promise you, we'll work you to reform the
immigration system.

KAINE: I look forward to working together in whatever capacities we serve in.
But I just want to make it very, very clear that he's trying to fuzz up what
Donald Trump has said. When Donald Trump spoke in Phoenix, he looked the
audience in the eye and he said, no, we're building a wall, and we're deporting
everybody. He said, quote, ''They will all be gone.'' ''They will all be gone.''
And this is one of these ones where you can just go to the tape on it and see
what Donald Trump has said. And to add...

PENCE: He's talking about criminal aliens.

KAINE: And to add to it, and to add to it, and to add to it, we are a nation of
immigrants. Mike Pence and I both are descended from immigrant families. Some
things, you know, maybe weren't said so great about the Irish when they came,
but we've done well by absorbing immigrants, and it's made our nation stronger.

When Donald Trump says Mexicans are rapists and criminals, Mexican immigrants,
when Donald Trump says about your judge, a Hoosier judge, he said that Judge
Curiel was unqualified to hear a case because his parents were Mexican, I can't
imagine how you could defend that.

QUIJANO: Gentleman, I'd like to shift now to the threat of terrorism. Do you
think the world today is a safer or more dangerous place than it was eight years
ago? Has the terrorist threat increased or decreased? Senator Kaine?

KAINE: The terrorist threat has decreased in some ways, because bin Laden is
dead. The terrorist threat has decreased in some ways because an Iranian nuclear
weapons program has been stopped. The terrorist threat to United States troops
has been decreased in some ways because there's not 175,000 in a dangerous part
of the world. There's only 15,000.

But there are other parts of the world that are challenging. Let me tell you
this: To beat terrorism, there's only one candidate who can do it, and it's
Hillary Clinton. Remember, Hillary Clinton was the senator from New York on
9/11. She was there at the World Trade Center when they were still searching for
victims and survivors. That's seared onto her, the need to beat terrorism.

And she's got a plan to do it. She was part of the national security team that
wiped out bin Laden. Here's her plan to defeat ISIL. First, we've got to keep
taking out their leaders on the battlefield. She was part of the team that got
bin Laden, and she'll lead the team that will get Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the head
of ISIS.

Second, we've got to disrupt financing networks, third, disrupt their ability to
recruit on the Internet, in their safe havens. But, fourth, we also have to work
with allies to share and surge intelligence. That's the Hillary Clinton plan;
she's got the experience to do it.

Donald Trump. Donald Trump can't start a Twitter war with Miss Universe without
shooting himself in the foot. Donald Trump doesn't have a plan. He said, ''I
have a secret plan,'' and then he said, ''Um, I know more than all the generals
about ISIL.'' And then he said, ''I'm going to call the generals to help me
figure out a plan.'' And finally he said, ''I'm going to fire all the
generals.'' He doesn't have a plan.

But he does have dangerous ideas. Here's four. He trash talks the military. The
military is a disaster, John McCain's no hero, the generals need all to be
fired, and I know more than them. He wants to tear up alliances. NATO is
obsolete, and we'll only work together with Israel if they pay ''big league.''

Third, he loves dictators. He's got kind of a personal Mount Rushmore, Vladimir
Putin, Kim Jong-un, Moammar Gadhafi...

PENCE: Oh, please. Come on.

KAINE: ... and Saddam Hussein. And last and most dangerously, Donald Trump
believes -- Donald Trump believes that the world will be safer if more nations
have nuclear weapons. He's said Saudi Arabia should get them, Japan should get
them, Korea should get them. And when he was confronted with this, and told,
wait a minute, terrorists could get those, proliferation could lead to nuclear
war, here's what Donald Trump said, and I quote: ''Go ahead, folks, enjoy
yourselves.''

I'd love to hear Governor Pence tell me what's so enjoyable or comical about
nuclear war.

QUIJANO: Governor Pence?

PENCE: Did you work on that one a long time? Because that had a lot of really
creative lines in it.

KAINE: Well, I'm going to see if you can defend any of it.

PENCE: Well, look, I can defend -- I -- I -- I can -- I can make very clear to
the American people, after traveling millions of miles as our secretary of
state, after being the architect of the foreign policy of this administration,
America is less safe today than it was the day that Barack Obama became
president of the United States. It's absolutely inarguable.

We've weakened America's place in the world. It's been a combination of factors,
but mostly it's been a lack of leadership. I mean, I will give you -- and I was
in Washington, D.C., on 9/11. I saw the clouds of smoke rise from the Pentagon.

KAINE: I was in Virginia where the Pentagon's...

(CROSSTALK)

PENCE: I know you were. We all lived through that day as a nation. It was
heartbreaking. And I want to give this president credit for bringing Osama bin
Laden to justice.

But the truth is, Osama bin Laden led Al Qaida. Our primary threat today is
ISIS. And because Hillary Clinton failed to renegotiate a status of forces
agreement that would have allowed some American combat troops to remain in Iraq
and secure the hard fought gains the American soldier had won by 2009, ISIS was
able to be literally conjured up out of the desert, and it's overrun vast areas
that the American soldier had won in Operation Iraqi Freedom.

My heart breaks for the likes of Lance Cpl. Scott Zubowski. He fell in Fallujah
in 2005. He fought hard through some of the most difficult days in Operation
Iraqi Freedom, and he paid the ultimate sacrifice to defend our freedom and
secure that nation. And that nation was secured in 2009.

But because Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama failed to provide a status of
forces agreement and leave sufficient troops in there, we are back at war. The
president just ordered more troops on the ground. We are back at war in Iraq.
And Scott Zubowski, whose mom would always come to Memorial Day events in
Newcastle, Indiana, to see me, and I'd give her a hug and tell her we're never
going to forget her son and we never will, Scott Zubowski and the sacrifices the
American soldier made were squandered in Iraq because this administration
created a vacuum in which ISIS was able to grow.

And a reference to the Iranian deal, the Iranian deal that Hillary Clinton
initiated, $150 billion to the radical mullahs in Iran.

KAINE: Stopping a nuclear weapons program without firing a shot?

PENCE: You didn't stop the nuclear weapons program.

KAINE: Yes, we did.

PENCE: You essentially...

KAINE: Even the Israeli military says it stopped.

PENCE: ... guaranteed that Iran will someday become a nuclear power, because
there's no limitations once the period of time of the treaty comes off.

QUIJANO: Governor Pence, Mr. Trump has proposed extreme vetting of immigrants
from parts of the world that export terrorism. But that does not address many of
the recent terrorist attacks in the United States, such as the Orlando nightclub
massacre and the recent bombings in New York and New Jersey. Those were
homegrown, committed by U.S. citizens and legal residents. What specific tools
would you use to prevent those kinds of attacks?

PENCE: Well, I think it's -- I think it's a great question, Elaine, but it
really does begin with us reforming our immigration system and putting the
interests, particularly the safety and security of the American people, first.

I mean, Donald Trump has called for extreme vetting for people coming into this
country so that we don't bring people into the United States who are hostile to
our Bill of Rights freedoms, who are hostile to the American way life.

But also, Donald Trump and I are committed to suspending the Syrian refugee
program and programs and immigration from areas of the world that have been
compromised by terrorism. Hillary Clinton and Tim Kaine want to increase the
Syrian refugee program by 500...

(CROSSTALK)

KAINE: Elaine, I want to...

(CROSSTALK)

QUIJANO: Governor, the question was about homegrown.

PENCE: Yeah, and so -- but first, you know, let's make sure we're putting the
safety and security of the American people first instead of Hillary Clinton
expanding the Syrian refugee program...

KAINE: Or instead of you violating the Constitution by blocking people based on
their national origin rather than whether they're dangerous.

PENCE: That's not -- that's absolutely false.

KAINE: That's what the Seventh Circuit decided just -- here's the difference,
Elaine.

PENCE: The Seventh Circuit...

KAINE: We have different views on -- on refugee issues and on immigration.
Hillary and I want to do enforcement based on, are people dangerous? These guys
say all Mexicans are bad.

PENCE: That's absolutely false.

KAINE: And with respect to refugees, we want to keep people out if they're
dangerous. Donald Trump said keep them out if they're Muslim. Mike Pence...

PENCE: Absolutely...

KAINE: ... put a program in place to keep them out if they're from Syria. And
yesterday an appellate court with three Republican judges struck down the Pence
plan...

PENCE: Right. Right.

KAINE: ... and said it was discriminatory...

PENCE: And those judges -- those judges said...

KAINE: We should focus upon danger, not upon discrimination.

QUIJANO: Governor?

PENCE: Elaine, to your point, those judges said it was because there wasn't any
evidence yet that -- that ISIS had infiltrated the United States. Well, Germany
just arrested three Syrian refugees that were connected to ISIS.

(CROSSTALK)

KAINE: But they told you there's a right way and a wrong way to do it.

PENCE: But, look, if you're going to be critical of me on that, that's fair
game. I will tell you, after two Syrian refugees were involved in the attack in
Paris that is called Paris' 9/11, as governor of the state of Indiana, I have no
higher priority than the safety and security of the people of my state.

KAINE: But, Governor Pence...

PENCE: So you bet I suspended that program.

KAINE: But, Governor Pence, I just...

PENCE: And I stand by that decision. And if I'm vice president of the United
States or Donald Trump is president, we're going to put the safety and security
of the American people first.

KAINE: Sure. Can we just be clear -- Hillary and I will do immigration
enforcement and we'll vet refugees based on whether they're dangerous or not. We
won't do it based on discriminating against you from the country you come from
or the religion that you practice.

PENCE: But the problem with that...

KAINE: That is completely antithetical to the Jeffersonian values of...

(CROSSTALK)

PENCE: Elaine, the director of the FBI, our homeland security, said we can't
know for certain who these people are coming from Syria.

KAINE: Yes, we can, and when we don't let them know, we don't let them in.

PENCE: So -- the FBI...

KAINE: When we don't know who they are, we don't let them in.

PENCE: The FBI and homeland security said we can't know for certain. You've got
to err on the side of the safety and security of the American people, Senator. I
understand the...

KAINE: By trashing all Syrians or trashing all Muslims?

PENCE: ... the U.N. wants us to expand the Syrian refugee program...

QUIJANO: Senator Kaine, let me ask you this. Secretary Clinton...

PENCE: We're going to put the safety and security of the American people first.

QUIJANO: ... has talked about an intelligence surge.

KAINE: Yes.

QUIJANO: What exactly would an intelligence surge look like? And how would that
help identify terrorists with no operational connection to a foreign terrorist
organization?

KAINE: Intelligence surge is two-thirds, Elaine. It's two things. It's, first,
dramatically expanding our intelligence capacities by hiring great
professionals, but also we've got some of the best intel and cyber employees in
the world right here in the United States working for many of our private sector
companies.

So it involves increasing our own workforce, but striking great partnerships
with some of our cyber and intel experts in the private sector so that we can,
consistent with constitutional principles, gather more intelligence.

But the second piece of this is really, really important. It also means creating
stronger alliances, because you gather intelligence and then you share your
intelligence back and forth with allies. And that's how you find out who may be
trying to recruit, who may be trying to come to one country or the next.
Alliances are critical.

That's why Donald Trump's claim that he wants to -- that NATO is obsolete and
that we need to get rid of NATO is so dangerous.

PENCE: That's not his plan. KAINE: Well, he said NATO is obsolete. And, look, if
you put aside -- push aside your alliances, who you're going to share
intelligence with? Hillary Clinton is the secretary of state who knows how to
build alliances. She built the sanctions regime around the word that stopped the
Iranian nuclear weapons program. And that's what an intelligence surge means.
Better skill and capacity, but also better alliances.

QUIJANO: All right. I'd like to turn now to the tragedy in Syria. Two hundred
fifty thousand...

PENCE: Can I speak about the cybersecurity surge at all?

QUIJANO: You can -- you can have 30 seconds, Governor, quickly, please.

PENCE: First, Donald Trump just spoke about this issue this week. We have got to
bring together the best resources of this country to understand that cyber
warfare is the new warfare of the asymmetrical enemies that we face in this
country. And I look forward if I'm privileged to be in this role of working with
you in the Senate to make sure that we resource that effort.

KAINE: We will work together in whatever roles we inhabit.

PENCE: We have an intelligence, sir (ph). But I will also tell you that it's
important in this moment to remember that Hillary Clinton had a private server
in her home that had classified information on it...

QUIJANO: And I don't -- 30 seconds is on up.

PENCE: ... about drone strikes, e-mails from the president of the United States
of America were on there.

QUIJANO: Right.

PENCE: Her private server was subject to being hacked by foreign...

(CROSSTALK)

QUIJANO: I'd like to ask you about Syria, Governor.

PENCE: We could put cybersecurity first if we just make sure the next secretary
of state doesn't have a private server.

(CROSSTALK)

KAINE: And all investigation concluded that not one reasonable prosecutor would
take any additional step. You don't get to decide the rights and wrongs of this.
We have a justice system that does that. And a Republican FBI director did an
investigation and concluded that...

(CROSSTALK) QUIJANO: All right, we are moving on now. Two hundred fifty thousand
people...

PENCE: If your son or my son handled classified information the way Hillary
Clinton did...

QUIJANO: ... one hundred thousand of them children -- Governor...

PENCE: ... they'd be court martialed.

KAINE: That is absolutely false and you know that.

PENCE: Absolutely true.

KAINE: And you know that, Governor.

QUIJANO: Governor...

PENCE: It's absolutely true.

QUIJANO: Gentlemen, please.

KAINE: Because the FBI did an investigation.

QUIJANO: Gentlemen.

KAINE: And they concluded that there was no reasonable prosecutor who would take
it further. Sorry.

QUIJANO: Senator Kaine, Governor Pence, please.

KAINE: Syria.

QUIJANO: I want to turn now to Syria. Two hundred fifty thousand people, 100,000
of them children, are under siege in Aleppo, Syria. Bunker buster bombs, cluster
munitions, and incendiary weapons are being dropped on them by Russian and
Syrian militaries. Does the U.S. have a responsibility to protect civilians and
prevent mass casualties on this scale, Governor Pence?

PENCE: The United States of America needs to begin to exercise strong leadership
to protect the vulnerable citizens and over 100,000 children in Aleppo. Hillary
Clinton's top priority when she became secretary of state was the Russian reset,
the Russians reset. After the Russian reset, the Russians invaded Ukraine and
took over Crimea.

And the small and bullying leader of Russia is now dictating terms to the United
States to the point where all the United States of America -- the greatest
nation on Earth -- just withdraws from talks about a cease-fire while Vladimir
Putin puts a missile defense system in Syria while he marshals the forces and
begins -- look, we have got to begin to lean into this with strong,
broad-shouldered American leadership.

It begins by rebuilding our military. And the Russians and the Chinese have been
making enormous investments in the military. We have the smallest Navy since
1916. We have the lowest number of troops since the end of the Second World War.
We've got to work with Congress, and Donald Trump will, to rebuild our military
and project American strength in the world.

But about Aleppo and about Syria, I truly do believe that what America ought to
do right now is immediately establish safe zones, so that families and
vulnerable families with children can move out of those areas, work with our
Arab partners, real time, right now, to make that happen.

And secondly, I just have to tell you that the provocations by Russia need to be
met with American strength. And if Russia chooses to be involved and continue, I
should say, to be involved in this barbaric attack on civilians in Aleppo, the
United States of America should be prepared to use military force to strike
military targets of the Assad regime to prevent them from this humanitarian
crisis that is taking place in Aleppo.

There's a broad range of other things that we ought to do, as well. We ought to
deploy a missile defense shield to the Czech Republic and Poland which Hillary
Clinton and Barack Obama pulled back on out of not wanting to offend the
Russians back in 2009.

QUIJANO: Governor, your two minutes are up.

PENCE: We've just got to have American strength on the world stage. When Donald
Trump becomes president of the United States, the Russians and other countries
in the world will know they're dealing with a strong American president.
QUIJANO: Senator Kaine?

KAINE: Hillary and I also agree that the establishment of humanitarian zones in
northern Syria with the provision of international human aid, consistent with
the U.N. Security Council resolution that was passed in February 2014, would be
a very, very good idea.

And Hillary also has the ability to stand up to Russia in a way that this ticket
does not. Donald Trump, again and again, has praised Vladimir Putin. And it's
clear that he has business dealings with Russian oligarchs who are very
connected to Putin.

The Trump campaign management team had to be fired a month or so ago because of
those shadowy connections with pro-Putin forces. Governor Pence made the odd
claim, he said inarguably Vladimir Putin is a better leader than President
Obama. Vladimir Putin has run his economy into the ground. He persecutes LGBT
folks and journalists. If you don't know the difference between dictatorship and
leadership, then you got to go back to a fifth-grade civics class.

I'll tell you what offends me...

PENCE: Well, that offended me.

KAINE: Governor Pence just said -- Governor Pence just said that Donald Trump
will rebuild the military. No, he won't. Donald Trump is avoiding paying taxes.
The New York Times story -- and we need to get this -- but the New York Times
suggested that he probably didn't pay taxes for about 18 years starting in 1995.
Those years included the years of 9/11.

So get this. On 9/11, Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump's hometown was attacked
by the worst terrorist attack in the history of the United States. Young men and
women -- young men and women signed up to serve in the military to fight
terrorism. Hillary Clinton went to Washington to get funds to rebuild her city
and protect first responders, but Donald Trump was fighting a very different
fight. It was a fight to avoid paying taxes so that he wouldn't support the
fight against terror.

QUIJANO: The question was about Aleppo, Senator.

KAINE: He wouldn't support troops. He wouldn't -- he wouldn't support -- this is
important, Elaine. When a guy running for president will not support the troops,
not support veterans, not support teachers, that's really important.

QUIJANO: Right.

KAINE: And I said about Aleppo, we do agree the notion is we have to create a
humanitarian zone in northern Syria. It's very important.

QUIJANO: Governor Pence, you had mentioned no-fly zone. Where would you propose
setting up a safe zone specifically? How would you keep it safe?

PENCE: Well, first and foremost, Donald Trump supports our troops. Donald Trump
supports our veterans.

KAINE: He won't pay taxes.

PENCE: Donald Trump has paid all the taxes that he's -- do you not take
deductions? How does that work?

QUIJANO: Gentlemen, this is about Syria. I'd like to...

(CROSSTALK)

PENCE: Honestly, Senator. Honestly, Senator.

KAINE: It is about our troops. It is about our troops.

PENCE: I understand why you want to change -- I understand why you want to
change the subject.

KAINE: How can you support the troops if you won't pay taxes?

PENCE: I understand why you want to change the subject. And let me be very clear
on this Russian thing. The larger question here...

KAINE: Do you think Donald Trump is smart to not pay taxes?

QUIJANO: Gentlemen, we're going to have time to get to Russia here.

PENCE: What we're dealing with is the -- you know, there's an old proverb that
says the Russian bear never dies, it just hibernates. And the truth of the
matter is, the weak and feckless foreign policy of Hillary Clinton and Barack
Obama has awakened an aggression in Russia that first appeared a few years ago
with their move in Georgia, now their move into Crimea, now their move into the
wider Middle East.

And all the while, all we do is fold our arms and say we're not having talks
anymore. To answer your question, we just need American strength. We need to --
we need to marshal the resources of our allies in the region, and in the
immediate, we need to act and act now to get people out of harm's way.

QUIJANO: And exactly how would those safe zones work? How would they remain
safe?

PENCE: The -- the safe zones would have to be -- as the senator said, there's
already a framework for this that's been recognized by the international
community. The United States of America needs to be prepared to work with our
allies in the region to create a route for safe passage and then to protect
people in those areas, including with a no-fly zone.

But, look, this is very tough stuff. I served on the Foreign Affairs Committee
for a decade. I traveled in and out of that region for 10 years. I saw what the
American soldier won in Operation Iraqi Freedom. And to see the weak and
feckless leadership that Hillary Clinton was the architect of and the foreign
policy of the Obama administration...

KAINE: Well, let me -- let me come back...

PENCE: ... is deeply troubling to me. That will all change the day Donald Trump
becomes president of the United States.

KAINE: ... and talk about -- let me talk about the things that Governor Pence
doesn't want to acknowledge, Elaine. He doesn't want to acknowledge that we
stopped the Iranian nuclear weapons program. He doesn't want to acknowledge...

PENCE: We didn't.

KAINE: ... that Hillary was part of a team that got bin Laden. He doesn't want
to acknowledge...

PENCE: I just did. KAINE: ... that it's a good thing, not a bad thing, that it's
a good thing -- not a bad thing -- that we're down from 175,000 troops deployed
overseas to 15,000.

But let me tell you what will really make the Middle East dangerous. Donald
Trump's idea that more nations should get nuclear weapons, Saudi Arabia, Japan,
South Korea. Ronald Reagan said something really interesting about nuclear
proliferation back in the 1980s. He said the problem with nuclear proliferation
is that some fool or maniac could trigger a catastrophic event. And I think
that's who Governor Pence's running mate is, exactly who Governor Reagan warned
us about.

PENCE: And come on. Senator. Senator, that was even beneath you and Hillary
Clinton. And that -- that's pretty low.

KAINE: But do you -- do you think -- do you think we should have -- more nuclear
weapons in the world will make us safer?

PENCE: Senator, the...

KAINE: That's what Donald Trump thinks.

PENCE: Ronald Reagan also said nuclear war should never be fought because it can
never be won. And the United States of America needs to make investments in
modernizing our nuclear force for both deterrence...

KAINE: But can you defend Donald Trump's claim that more nations should get
nuclear weapons?

PENCE: ... and assurance to our allies. But let me go back to this Iran thing. I
mean, he keeps saying that they prevented -- that Hillary Clinton started the
deal with the Iranians prevented Iran from getting a nuclear weapon.

(CROSSTALK)

KAINE: That's what the Israeli joint chiefs of staff is saying right now.

PENCE: Well, that's not what -- that's not what Israel thinks.

KAINE: Gadi Eizenkot, you can go check it.

PENCE: You wouldn't necessarily know that.

KAINE: Go to the tape.

PENCE: I know you boycotted Prime Minister Netanyahu's speech when he came
before the Congress.

KAINE: No, I visited him in his office. I visited him in his office.

PENCE: You boycotted the speech. The point is, what this Iran -- so-called Iran
deal did was essentially guarantee -- I mean, when I was in Congress, I fought
hard on a bipartisan basis with Republican and Democrat members to move forward
the toughest sanctions, it -- literally in the history of the United States,
against Iran.

KAINE: And then Hillary used them to get a deal.

PENCE: We were bringing them to heel, but the goal was always that we would only
lift the sanctions if Iran permanently renounced their nuclear ambitions.

KAINE: Elaine, let me just mention one thing.

(CROSSTALK)

PENCE: They have not -- Elaine, let me finish a sentence. They have not
renounced their nuclear ambitions. And when the deal's period runs out, there's
no limitation on them obtaining weapons. That...

(CROSSTALK)

QUIJANO: And very quickly, Senator.

KAINE: Elaine...

PENCE: ... and the fact that they got $1.7 billion in a ransom payment...

QUIJANO: We need to talk about Russia. Very quickly, though, Senator, please.

PENCE: ... is astonishing to the American people.

KAINE: Six times tonight, I have said to Governor Pence I can't imagine how you
can defend your running mate's position on one issue after the next. And in all
six cases, he's refused to defend his running mate.

PENCE: Well, let's -- no, no, don't put words in my mouth.

QUIJANO: All right.

PENCE: He's going...

(CROSSTALK)

KAINE: And yet he is asking everybody to vote for somebody that he cannot
defend. And I just think that should be underlined.

PENCE: No, I'm -- look...

(CROSSTALK)

QUIJANO: All right, gentlemen, let's talk about Russia. This is a topic that has
come up.

PENCE: I'm very, very happy to defend Donald Trump. If he wants to take these
one at a time, I'll take them one at a time.

QUIJANO: I will give you an opportunity to do that.

KAINE: More nations should get nuclear weapons. Try to defend that.

PENCE: Don't put words in my mouth. Well, he never said that, Senator.

KAINE: He absolutely said it. Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Japan.

PENCE: Most of the stuffy you've said, he's never said.

QUIJANO: Gentlemen, Russia. Russian President Vladimir Putin invaded Ukraine,
annexed Crimea, and has provided crucial military support to the Assad regime.
What steps, if any, would your administration take to counter these actions?
Senator Kaine?

KAINE: You've got to be tough on Russia. So let's start with not praising
Vladimir Putin as a great leader. Donald Trump and Mike Pence have said he's a
great leader. And Donald Trump has business...

PENCE: No, we haven't.

KAINE: ... has business dealings -- has business dealings with Russia that he
refuses to disclose. Hillary Clinton has gone toe-to- toe with Russia. She went
toe-to-toe with Russia as secretary of state to do the New START Agreement to
reduce Russia's nuclear stockpile. She's had the experience doing it.

She went toe-to-toe with Russia and lodged protests when they went into Georgia.
And we've done the same thing about Ukraine, but more than launching protests,
we've put punishing economic sanctions on Russia that we need to continue.

Donald Trump, on the other hand, didn't know that Russia had invaded the Crimea.

PENCE: Oh, that's nonsense.

KAINE: He was on a TV show a couple months back, and he said, ''I'll guarantee
you this, Russia's not going into the Ukraine.'' And he had to be reminded that
they had gone into the Crimea two years before.

PENCE: He knew that.

KAINE: Hillary Clinton has gone toe-to-toe with Russia to work out a deal on New
START. She got them engaged on a meaningful way to cap Iran's nuclear weapons
program. And yet she stood up to them on issues such as Syria and their invasion
of Georgia. You've got to have the ability to do that, and Hillary does.

On the other hand, in Donald Trump, you have somebody who praises Vladimir Putin
all the time. America should really wonder about a President Trump, who had a
campaign manager with ties to Putin, pro- Putin elements in the Ukraine, who had
to be fired for that reason. They should wonder -- when Donald Trump is sitting
down with Vladimir Putin, is it going to be America's bottom line or is it going
to be Donald Trump's bottom line that he's going to be worried about with all of
his business dealings?

Now, this could be solved if Donald Trump would be willing to release his tax
returns, as he told the American public that he would do. And I know he's
laughing at this, but every president...

PENCE: But what's it got to do with Russia?

KAINE: Every president since Richard Nixon has done it, and Donald Trump has
said I'm doing business with Russia. The only way the American public will see
whether he has a conflict of interest...

PENCE: No, he hasn't said that.

KAINE: He has, actually.

QUIJANO: Senator, your time is up. Governor?

PENCE: Well, thanks. I'm just trying to keep up with the insult-driven campaign
on the other side of the table.

KAINE: You know, I'm just saying facts about your running mate.

PENCE: Yeah.

KAINE: And I know you can't defend.

QUIJANO: Senator, please. This is the governor's two minutes.

PENCE: I'm happy to defend him, Senator. Don't put words in my mouth that I'm
not defending him.

KAINE: You're not.

PENCE: I'm happy to defend him. Most of what you said is completely false, and
the American people know that.

KAINE: I'll run through the list of things where you won't defend...

PENCE: This isn't the old days where you can just say stuff and people believe
it.

QUIJANO: Senator, please. This is Governor Pence's two minutes.

PENCE: Look, this is the alternative universe of Washington, D.C., versus
reality. Hillary Clinton said her number-one priority was a reset with Russia.
That reset resulted in the invasion of Ukraine, after they'd infiltrated with
what are called little green men, Russian soldiers that were dressing up like
Ukrainian dissidents, and then they moved all the way into Crimea, took over the
Crimean Peninsula. Donald Trump knew that happened. He basically was saying it's
not going to happen again. The truth of the matter is that what you have in the
rise of aggressive Russia, which has had -- increased its influence in Iran,
that's now -- now because of this deal is on a pathway in the future to obtain a
nuclear -- the leading state sponsor of terror in the world in Iran now has a
closer working relationship with Russia because of Hillary Clinton and Barack
Obama's foreign policy and $150 billion and sanctions all being lifted.

And then, of course, Syria, I mean, it really is extraordinary that -- Syria is
imploding. You just asked a very thoughtful question about the disaster in
Aleppo. ISIS is headquartered in Raqqa. It is -- ISIS from Raqqa has overrun
vast areas that at great sacrifice the American soldier won in Operation Iraqi
Freedom, and yet Senator Kaine still sits here, loyal soldier -- I get all that
-- in saying that the foreign policy of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama somehow
made the world more secure. I mean, it really is astonishing that on the day...

KAINE: We even wiped out the leader of Al Qaida.

PENCE: ... on the day that Iran released four American hostages...

KAINE: We stopped Iran from getting nuclear weapons.

QUIJANO: Governor...

PENCE: ... we delivered $400 million in cash as a ransom payment for Americans
held by the radical mullahs in Tehran.

(CROSSTALK)

QUIJANO: Governor, yesterday, Mr. Trump said...

KAINE: And we stopped a nuclear weapons program without a shot.

QUIJANO: ... quote, ''Putin has no respect for Hillary Clinton and no respect
for Obama.'' Why do you think he'll respect a Trump- Pence administration?

PENCE: Strength. Plain and simple.

KAINE: Business dealings.

PENCE: Donald Trump -- that's nonsense. Donald Trump is a strong leader...

KAINE: Donald Trump's son says that the Trump organization...

PENCE: ... who is going to lead with American strength.

QUIJANO: Please, Senator, I'll give you a chance to respond.

PENCE: We're going to rebuild our military. And let me -- let me -- this whole
Putin thing. Look, America is stronger than Russia. Our economy is 16 times
larger than the Russian economy. America's political system is superior to the
crony, corrupt capitalist system in Russia in every way.

When Donald Trump and I observe that, as I've said in Syria, in Iran, in
Ukraine, that the small and bullying leader of Russia has been stronger on the
world stage than this administration, that's stating painful facts. That's not
an endorsement of Vladimir Putin. That's an indictment of the weak and feckless
leadership...

QUIJANO: Senator Kaine?

PENCE: ... of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama.

KAINE: Well, this is one where we can just kind of go to the tape on it. But
Governor Pence said, inarguably, Vladimir Putin is a better leader than
President Obama.

PENCE: That is absolutely inaccurate.

KAINE: And -- and -- and I just think a guy who praises...

PENCE: He said he's stronger -- he's been stronger on the world stage.

KAINE: No, he said leader. And if -- and I'll just say this, Governor.

PENCE: You just said better.

KAINE: If you mistake leadership for dictatorship, and you can't tell the
difference, a country that's running its economy into the ground...

PENCE: Yeah, here we go. This is the grade school thing again?

KAINE: ... persecuting journalists...

PENCE: Right, this is grade school.

KAINE: ... if you can't tell the difference, you shouldn't be
commander-in-chief.

PENCE: Yeah. KAINE: And with Donald Trump -- Donald Trump's sons say that they
have all these business dealings with Russia. Those could be disclosed with tax
returns, but they refuse to do them. Americans need to worry about whether
Donald Trump will be watching out for America's bottom line or his own bottom
line.

QUIJANO: Senator Kaine, what went wrong with the Russia reset?

KAINE: Vladimir Putin. Vladimir Putin is a dictator.

QUIJANO: And what would do you differently?

KAINE: Vladimir Putin is a dictator. He's not a leader. Anybody who thinks
otherwise doesn't know Russian history and they don't know Vladimir Putin.
Hillary Clinton knows exactly who this guy is. John McCain said, I look in his
eyes and I see KGB. And Hillary kind of has that same feeling.

PENCE: Right.

KAINE: So how do deal with him? You've got to -- we do have to deal with Russia
in a lot of different ways. There are areas where we can cooperate. So it was
Hillary Clinton who worked with Russia on the New START Treaty to reduce their
nuclear weapons stockpile. It was Hillary Clinton that worked with Russia to get
them engaged in a community of nations to stop the Iranian nuclear weapons
without firing a shot.

She's not going around praising Vladimir Putin as a great guy. But she knows how
to sit down at a table and negotiate tough deals. This is a very challenging
part of the world, and we ought to have a commander-in-chief who is prepared and
done it, rather than somebody who goes around praising Vladimir Putin as a great
leader.

QUIJANO: All right, I'd like to ask now about North Korea, Iran and the threat
of nuclear weapons. North Korea recently conducted its fifth and most powerful
nuclear test.

PENCE: Right.

QUIJANO: What specific steps would you take to prevent North Korea from
developing a nuclear-armed missile capable of reaching the United States?
Governor Pence?

PENCE: Well, first, we need to -- we need to make a commitment to rebuild our
military, including modernizing our nuclear forces. And we also need -- we also
need an effective American diplomacy that will marshal the resources of nations
in the Asian Pacific Rim to put pressure on North Korea, on Kim Jong-un, to
abandon his nuclear ambitions. It has to remain the policy of the United States
of America the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, plain and simple.

And when Donald Trump is president of the United States, we're -- we're not
going to have the -- the kind of posture in the world that has Russia invading
Crimea and Ukraine, that has the Chinese building new islands in the South China
Sea, that has literally the world, including North Korea, flouting American
power. We're going to -- we're going to go back to the days of peace through
strength.

But I have to tell you that -- that all this talk about tax returns -- and I get
it, you know, you want to keep bringing that up. It must have -- must have...

KAINE: Until he...

(CROSSTALK)

PENCE: ... done well in some focus group. But here -- Hillary Clinton and her
husband set up a private foundation called the Clinton Foundation. While she was
secretary of state, the Clinton Foundation accepted tens of millions of dollars
from foreign governments and foreign donors.

Now, you all need to know out there, this is basic stuff. Foreign donors, and
certainly foreign governments, cannot participate in the American political
process. They cannot make financial contributions. But the Clintons figured out
a way to create a foundation where foreign governments and foreign donors could
donate millions of dollars. And then we found, thanks to the good work of the
Associated Press, that more than half her private meetings when she was
secretary of state were given to major donors of the Clinton Foundation. When
you talk about all these -- all these baseless rumors about Russia and the rest,
Hillary Clinton -- you asked the trustworthy question at the very beginning --
the reason...

QUIJANO: Governor, your two minutes are up.

PENCE: ... the reason the American people don't trust Hillary Clinton is because
they are looking at the pay to play politics that she operated with the Clinton
Foundation through a private server...

QUIJANO: Governor, please.

PENCE: ... while she's secretary of state.

QUIJANO: Your two minutes are up, Governor.

PENCE: And they're saying enough is enough.

QUIJANO: Senator Kaine?

KAINE: I'm going to talk about the foundation, and then I'll talk about North
Korea. So, on the foundation. I am glad to talk about the foundation. The
Clinton Foundation is one of the highest- rated charities in the world. It
provides AIDS drugs to about 11.5 million people. It helps Americans deal with
opioid overdoses. It gets higher rankings for its charity than the American Red
Cross does. The Clinton foundation does an awful lot of good work.

Hillary Clinton as secretary of state took no action to benefit the foundation.
The State Department did an investigation, and they concluded that everything
Hillary Clinton did as secretary of state was completely in the interest of the
United States. So the foundation does good work. And Hillary Clinton as
secretary of state acted in the interests of the United States.

But let's compare this now with the Trump organization and the Trump Foundation.
The Trump organization is an octopus-like organization with tentacles all over
the world whose conflict of interests could only be known if Donald Trump would
release his tax returns. He's refused to do it.

His sons have said that the organization has a lot of business dealings in
Russia. And remember, the Trump organization is not a non-profit. It's putting
money into Donald Trump's pockets and into the pockets of his children, whereas
the Clinton Foundation is a non- profit and no Clinton family member draws any
salary.

PENCE: The Trump Foundation is non-profit.

KAINE: In addition, Donald Trump has a foundation. The foundation was just fined
for illegally contributing foundation dollars to a political campaign of a
Florida attorney general. They made an illegal contribution, and then they tried
to hide it by disguising it to somebody else. And the person they donated to was
somebody whose office was charged with investigating Trump University.

This is the difference between a foundation that does good work and a secretary
of state who acted in accordance with American interest and somebody who is
conflicted and doing work around the world and won't share with the American
public what he's doing and what those conflicts are.

QUIJANO: Governor, I will give you 30 seconds to respond, because I know you
want to, but, again, I would remind you both this was about North Korea.

(LAUGHTER)

PENCE: Well, Thank you. Thank you. The Trump Foundation is a private family
foundation. They give virtually every cent in the Trump Foundation to charitable
causes.

KAINE: Political contributions?

PENCE: Less than ten cents on the dollar in the Clinton Foundation has gone to
charitable causes.

KAINE: A $20,000 portrait of Donald Trump? PENCE: Less than 10 cents on the
dollar of the Clinton Foundation has gone to charitable causes.

KAINE: Ninety percent.

PENCE: It has been a platform for the Clintons to travel the world, to have
staff. But honestly, Senator, we would know a lot more about it if Hillary
Clinton would just turn over the 33,000 e-mails...

QUIJANO: All right, let's turn back to North Korea...

PENCE: ... that she refused to turn over in her private server...

QUIJANO: Senator Kaine...

PENCE: ... and we'd have a much better picture of what the Clinton Foundation
was about.

QUIJANO: Senator Kaine, if you had intelligence that North Korea was about to
launch a missile, a nuclear-armed missile capable of reaching the United States,
would you take preemptive action?

KAINE: If we -- look, a president should take action to defend the United States
against imminent threat. You have to. A president has to do that. Now exactly
what action, you would have to determine what your intelligence was, how certain
you were of that intelligence, but you would have to take action.

You asked the question about how do we deal with a North Korea. I'm on the
Foreign Relations Committee. We just did an extensive sanctions package against
North Korea. And interestingly enough, Elaine, the U.N. followed and did this --
virtually the same package. Often China will use their veto in the Security
Council to veto a package like that. They're starting to get worried about North
Korea, too. So they actually supported the sanctions package, even though many
of the sanctions are against Chinese firms, Chinese financial institutions.

So we're working together with China, and we need to. China's another one of
those relationships where it's competitive, it's also challenging, and in times
like North Korea, we have to be able to cooperate. Hillary understands that very
well. She went once famously to China and stood up at a human rights meeting and
looked them in the eye and said, ''Women's rights are human rights.'' They
didn't want her to say that, but she did.

But she's also worked on a lot of diplomatic and important diplomatic deals with
China. And that's what it's going to take.

The thing I would worry a little bit about is that Donald Trump owes about $650
million to banks, including the Bank of China. I'm not sure he could stand up so
tough to the people who have loaned him money.

QUIJANO: All right. I'd like to turn to our next segment now. And in this, I'd
like to focus on social issues. You have both been open about the role that
faith has played in your lives. Can you discuss in detail a time when you
struggled to balance your personal faith and a public policy position? Senator
Kaine?

KAINE: Yeah, that's an easy one for me, Elaine. It's an easy one. I'm really
fortunate. I grew up in a wonderful household with great Irish Catholic parents.
My mom and dad are sitting right here. I was educated by Jesuits at Rockhurst
High School in Kansas City. My 40th reunion is in 10 days.

And I worked with Jesuit missionaries in Honduras, now nearly 35 years ago, and
they were the heroes of my life. I try to practice my religion in a very devout
way and follow the teachings of my church in my own personal life. But I don't
believe in this nation, a First Amendment nation, where we don't raise any
religion over the other, and we allow people to worship as they please, that the
doctrines of any one religion should be mandated for everyone.

For me, the hardest struggle in my faith life was the Catholic Church is against
the death penalty and so am I. But I was governor of a state, and the state law
said that there was a death penalty for crimes if the jury determined them to be
heinous. And so I had to grapple with that.

When I was running for governor, I was attacked pretty strongly because of my
position on the death penalty. But I looked the voters of Virginia in the eye
and said, look, this is my religion. I'm not going to change my religious
practice to get one vote, but I know how to take an oath and uphold the law. And
if you elect me, I will uphold the law.

And I was elected, and I did. It was very, very difficult to allow executions to
go forward, but in circumstances where I didn't feel like there was a case for
clemency, I told Virginia voters I would uphold the law, and I did.

That was a real struggle. But I think it is really, really important that those
of us who have deep faith lives don't feel that we could just substitute our own
views for everybody else in society, regardless of their views.

QUIJANO: Governor Pence?

PENCE: Well, it's a wonderful question. And my Christian faith is at the very
heart of who I am. I was also raised in a wonderful family of faith. It was a
church on Sunday morning and grace before dinner.

PENCE: But my Christian faith became real for me when I made a personal decision
for Christ when I was a freshman in college. And I've tried to live that out
however imperfectly every day of my life since. And with my wife at my side,
we've followed a calling into public service, where we've -- we've tried to --
we've tried to keep faith with the values that we cherish.

And with regard to when I struggle, I appreciate, and -- and -- and -- I have a
great deal of respect for Senator Kaine's sincere faith. I truly do.

KAINE: That's shared.

PENCE: But for me, I would tell you that for me the sanctity of life proceeds
out of the belief that -- that ancient principle that -- where God says before
you were formed in the womb, I knew you, and so for my first time in public
life, I sought to stand with great compassion for the sanctity of life.

The state of Indiana has also sought to make sure that we expand alternatives in
health care counseling for women, non-abortion alternatives. I'm also very
pleased at the fact we're well on our way in Indiana to becoming the most
pro-adoption state in America. I think if you're going to be pro-life, you
should -- you should be pro- adoption.

But what I can't understand is with Hillary Clinton and now Senator Kaine at her
side is to support a practice like partial-birth abortion. I mean, to hold to
the view -- and I know Senator Kaine, you hold pro-life views personally -- but
the very idea that a child that is almost born into the world could still have
their life taken from them is just anathema to me.

And I cannot -- I can't conscience about -- about a party that supports that. Or
that -- I know you've historically opposed taxpayer funding of abortion. But
Hillary Clinton wants to -- wants to repeal the longstanding provision in the
law where we said we wouldn't use taxpayer dollars to fund abortion.

So for me, my faith informs my life. I try and spend a little time on my knees
every day. But it all for me begins with cherishing the dignity, the worth, the
value of every human life.

KAINE: Elaine, this is a fundamental question, a fundamental question. Hillary
and I are both people out of religious backgrounds, from Methodist church
experience, which was really formative for her as a public servant.

But we really feel like you should live fully and with enthusiasm the commands
of your faith. But it is not the role of the public servant to mandate that for
everybody else.

So let's talk about abortion and choice. Let's talk about them. We support Roe
v. Wade. We support the constitutional right of American women to consult their
own conscience, their own supportive partner, their own minister, but then make
their own decision about pregnancy. That's something we trust American women to
do that.

And we don't think that women should be punished, as Donald Trump said they
should, for making the decision to have an abortion.

Governor Pence wants to repeal Roe v. Wade. He said he wants to put it on the
ash heap of history. And we have some young people in the audience who weren't
even born when Roe was decided. This is pretty important. Before Roe v. Wade,
states could pass criminal laws to do just that, to punish women if they made
the choice to terminate a pregnancy.

I think you should live your moral values. But the last thing, the very last
thing that government should do is have laws that would punish women who make
reproductive choices. And that is the fundamental difference between a
Clinton-Kaine ticket and a Trump- Pence ticket that wants to punish women who
make that choice.

PENCE: No, it's really not. Donald Trump and I would never support legislation
that punished women who made the heartbreaking choice to end a pregnancy.

KAINE: Then why did Donald Trump say that?

PENCE: We just never would.

KAINE: Why did he say that?

PENCE: Well, look, it's -- look, he's not a polished politician like you and
Hillary Clinton. And so...

KAINE: Well, I would admit that's not a polished...

(CROSSTALK)

PENCE: You know, things don't always come out exactly the way he means them.

KAINE: Well, can I say...

PENCE: But I'm telling you what the policy of our administration would be.

KAINE: Great line from the -- great line from the gospel of Matthew. From the
fullness of the heart, the mouth speaks.

PENCE: Yeah. KAINE: When Donald Trump says women should be punished or Mexicans
are rapists and criminals...

PENCE: I'm telling you...

KAINE: ... or John McCain is not a hero, he is showing you who he is.

PENCE: Senator, you've whipped out that Mexican thing again. He -- look...

KAINE: Can you defend it?

PENCE: There are criminal aliens in this country, Tim, who have come into this
country illegally who are perpetrating violence and taking American lives.

KAINE: You want to -- you want to use a big tar brush against Mexicans on that?

PENCE: He also said and many of them are good people. You keep leaving that out
of your quote. And if you want me to go there, I'll go there.

But here's -- there is a choice, and it is a choice on life. I couldn't be more
proud to be standing with Donald Trump, who's standing for the right to life.
It's a principle that -- Senator Kaine -- and I'm very gentle about this,
because I really do respect you -- it's a principle that you embrace.

And I have appreciated the fact that you've supported the Hyde amendment, which
bans the use of taxpayer funding for abortion, in the past, but that's not
Hillary Clinton's view. People need to understand, we can come together as a
nation. We can create a culture of life. More and more young people today are
embracing life because we know we are -- we're better for it. We can -- like
Mother Teresa said at that famous national prayer breakfast...

KAINE: This is important --

PENCE: ... bring the -- let's welcome the children into our world. There are so
many families around the country who can't have children. We could improve
adoption...

KAINE: But, Governor...

PENCE: ... so that families that can't have children can adopt more readily
those children from crisis pregnancies.

KAINE: Governor, why don't you trust women to make this choice for themselves?
We can encourage people to support life. Of course we can. But why don't you
trust women? Why doesn't Donald Trump trust women to make this choice for
themselves?

That's what we ought to be doing in public life. Living our lives of faith or
motivation with enthusiasm and excitement, convincing other, dialoguing with
each other about important moral issues of the day...

PENCE: Because there are...

KAINE: ... but on fundamental issues of morality, we should let women make their
own decisions.

PENCE: Because there is -- a society can be judged by how it deals with its most
vulnerable, the aged, the infirm, the disabled, and the unborn. I believe it
with all my heart. And I couldn't be more proud to be standing with a pro-life
candidate in Donald Trump.

QUIJANO: I do have one final question for you both tonight. It has been a
divisive campaign. Senator Kaine, if your ticket wins, what specifically are you
going to do to unify the country and reassure the people who voted against you?

KAINE: That's a really important one. That may be the $64,000 question, because
it has been a divisive campaign. And again, Hillary is running a campaign about
stronger together, and Donald Trump -- and this is -- this is not directed at
this man, except to the extent that he can't defend Donald Trump -- Donald Trump
has run a campaign that's been about one insult after the next.

But we do have to bring the country together. So here's what we'll do. Hillary
Clinton was first lady, then senator for eight years and secretary of state. And
I served in the Senate. And I'm really amazed, Elaine, as I talk to Republican
senators, how well they regard and respect Hillary Clinton.

She was on the Armed Services Committee. She was on other committees. She worked
across the aisle when she was first lady to get the CHIP program passed so that
8 million low-income kids have health insurance in this country, including
150,000 in Indiana.

She worked across the aisle after 9/11 to get health benefits for the first
responders who bravely went into the towers and into the Pentagon. She worked to
get benefits for -- TRICARE benefits for National Guard members, including
Hoosiers and Virginians in the National Guard.

She has a track record of working across the aisle to make things happen. And,
you know, Elaine, I have the same track record. I was a governor of Virginia
with two Republican houses. And in the Senate, I have good working relationships
across the aisle.

Because I think it's fine to be a Democrat or Republican or independent, but
after Election Day, the goal is work together. And Hillary Clinton has a track
record of accomplishment across the aisle that will enable her to do just that
when we work with the new Congress in January.

QUIJANO: Governor, how will you unify the country if you win?

PENCE: Well, thank you, Elaine, and thanks for a great discussion...

KAINE: Absolutely.

PENCE: ... tonight. Thank you, Senator.

This is a very challenging time in the life of our nation. Weakened America's
place in the world after the leadership of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama on
the world stage has been followed by an economy that is truly struggling,
stifled by an avalanche of more taxes, more regulation, Obamacare, the war on
coal, and the kind of trade deals that have put American workers in the back
seat. I think the best way that we can bring people together is through change
in Washington, D.C.

You know, I served in Washington, D.C., for 12 years in the Congress of the
United States. And I served with many Republicans and Democrats, men and women
of goodwill. The potential is there to really change the direction of this
country, but it's going to take leadership to do it.

The American people want to see our nation standing tall on the world stage
again. They want to see us supporting our military, rebuilding our military,
commanding the respect of the world, and they want to see the American economy
off to the races again. They want to see an American comeback.

And Donald Trump's entire career has been about building. It's been about --
it's going through hardship just like a businessperson does and finding a way
through smarts and ingenuity and resilience to fight forward and -- when Donald
Trump becomes president of the United States, we're going to have a stronger
America.

When you hear him say he wants to make America great again, when we do that, I
truly do believe the American people are going to be standing taller. They're
going to see that real change can happen after decades of just talking about it.
And when that happens, the American people are going to stand tall, stand
together, and we'll have the kind of unity that's been missing for way too long.

QUIJANO: All right, gentlemen, thank you so much.

This concludes the vice presidential debate. My thanks to the candidates, the
commission, and to you for watching. Please tune in this Sunday for the second
presidential debate at Washington University in St. Louis and the final debate
on October 19th at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas.

From Farmville, Virginia, I'm Elaine Quijano of CBS News. Good night.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/06/us/politics/vice-president-transcript.html

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        October 7, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

U.S. Says Russia Directed Hacks to Influence Elections

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER and CHARLIE SAVAGE

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1438 words



HIGHLIGHT: The government formally accused the Kremlin of stealing and
disclosing emails from the Democratic National Committee and other sources.


WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration on Friday formally accused the Russian
government of stealing and disclosing emails from the Democratic National
Committee and a range of other institutions and prominent individuals,
immediately raising the issue of whether President Obama would seek sanctions or
other retaliation.

In a statement from the director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr.,
and the Department of Homeland Security, the government said the leaked emails
that have appeared on a variety of websites "are intended to interfere with the
U.S. election process."

The emails were posted on the well-known WikiLeaks site and two newer sites,
DCLeaks.com and Guccifer 2.0, identified as being associated with Russian
intelligence.

"We believe, based on the scope and sensitivity of these efforts, that only
Russia's senior-most officials could have authorized these activities," the
statement said.

It did not name President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, but that appeared to be
the intention.

The statement from Mr. Clapper and the Department of Homeland Security, which is
primarily responsible for defending the country against sophisticated
cyberattacks, said the intelligence agencies were less certain who was
responsible for "scanning and probing" online election rolls in states around
the country. It said that those "in most cases originated from servers operated
by a Russian company," but stopped short of alleging the Russian government was
responsible for those probes.

The announcement came only hours after Secretary of State John Kerry called for
the Russian and Syrian governments to face a formal war-crimes investigation
over attacks on civilians in Aleppo and other parts of Syria. Taken together,
the developments mark a sharp escalation of Washington's many confrontations
with Moscow this year.

For weeks, aides to Mr. Obama have been debating whether to openly attribute the
cyberattacks to Russia, and as recently as Wednesday the director of the
National Security Agency, Adm. Michael Rogers, refused to publicly accuse
Moscow.

But with little more than a month to go before the presidential election, one
senior administration official said that Mr. Obama was "under pressure to act
now," in part because a declaration closer to Election Day would appear to be
political. Two days ahead of the second presidential debate, the announcement
also puts the Republican nominee, Donald J. Trump, more on the defensive over
his assertion last month that Mr. Putin is a better leader than Mr. Obama.

In the first debate, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Mr. Trump's
Democratic rival, blamed Russia for the cyberattacks on the Democratic National
Committee, but Mr. Trump said there was no evidence that Russia was responsible;
he suggested it could have been the Chinese or "somebody sitting on their bed
that weighs 400 pounds."

Soon after the administration accused the Russians of hacking into the
committee, WikiLeaks published hacked emails from John D. Podesta, the Clinton
campaign chairman.

In a Twitter message Friday evening, Mr. Podesta said that "I'm not happy about
being hacked by the Russians in their attempt to throw the election to Donald
Trump.''

WikiLeaks has released troves of hacked Democratic emails, but has not revealed
their source.

A major question is how Mr. Obama might respond without setting off an
escalating cyberspace conflict with Russia between now and Nov. 8. One
possibility is that the announcement itself -- an effort to "name and shame" --
will deter further action.

But Mr. Obama's aides have assembled a range of possible responses, from using
economic sanctions to covert action against Russian targets, potentially
including the computers used in the hack.

The official accusation against Russia comes after anonymous American
intelligence officials told The New York Times in July that they had "high
confidence" that the Russian government was behind the hack of the D.N.C., which
led to the resignation of Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the Florida
Democrat, as committee chairwoman, amid evidence that the committee was favoring
Mrs. Clinton over her competitor for the party nomination, Senator Bernie
Sanders of Vermont.

The months of subsequent silence frustrated some in Congress, and several weeks
ago the top Democrats on the House and Senate intelligence committees, Adam
Schiff and Dianne Feinstein, both of California, said Russia and its leaders
were responsible, citing classified briefings.

Mr. Schiff, who had urged the Obama administration to name Russia and better
prepare American voters for the possibility of interference between now and the
election, on Friday praised the decision "to call out Russia on its malevolent
interference in our political affairs."

"I hope this will establish a deterrent to further meddling," he said. "I don't
think the Russians have decided yet how much they plan to continue their
interference, so I think this attribution is very timely. We're also encouraging
the administration to work with our European partners, who have been the subject
of even worse meddling, to coordinate a response to this."

Mr. Schiff said he was afraid Russian hackers might attempt to delete or
manipulate voter rolls, causing long lines at the polls and delays in counting
votes because people would be forced to cast provisional ballots. (Voting
machines themselves are not linked to the internet, so it is effectively
impossible to hack them in a systematic way and change the outcome, specialists
say.)

But as "profound" as that concern is, Mr. Schiff said, he and others see as "the
most grave risk" something else: Russia could take emails it has already stolen,
manipulate them to create a false impression that a candidate has done something
outrageous or illegal, and cause them to be published online shortly before the
election.

That, he said, "could have an election-altering effect."

Federal officials are trying to help states plug holes in their internet
defenses for election management systems. One thing they will not do before the
election is pronounce such systems "critical infrastructure," as the secretary
of Homeland Security, Jeh Johnson, proposed in August.

Mr. Johnson's notion provoked a backlash from conservatives. Republicans like
Brian P. Kemp, the secretary of state in Georgia, and Jon A. Husted, his
counterpart in Ohio, accused the Obama administration of overreaching, saying it
was trying to carry out a federal takeover.

Administration officials said that the idea of declaring elections systems
critical infrastructure is dead for now, lest it discourage states from working
with the federal government.

"Our focus right now, in the remaining days before Nov. 8, is to encourage
states to come forward and request our assistance," Mr. Johnson said in a recent
interview.

The department has offered states two kinds of help, both for free: a remote
cyber "hygiene" scan of their servers by department officials who look for known
vulnerabilities and can recommend patches, and a more intensive on-site analysis
by a team of computer security specialists.

The department's emphasis on voluntary measures has met with mixed success: So
far, 28 states have accepted that offer, the department said, but it declined to
name them. Officials with election agencies in the large swing states of Ohio,
North Carolina, and Pennsylvania said they were participating. (Pennsylvania is
particularly important because its electronic voting machines lack a paper audit
trail for recounts.)

Florida, another large swing state, is not participating in this program, but
officials in the office of its secretary of state said they had already been
working with federal partners.

Still, while the number of participants has been slowly creeping up, the window
is closing. A Homeland Security official said it takes about a week to complete
the necessary paperwork to permit the department to begin the work, and that the
more intensive on-site effort takes about two weeks.

That suggests that soon after the middle of October, it will be too late to
provide any help to late takers.

The fact that 22 states are not as yet participating does not necessarily mean
all of them are vulnerable in ways that participants are not. Kay Stimson, a
spokeswoman for the National Association of Secretaries of State, noted that
some states had already been taking cybersecurity measures that are likely
equivalent to what the department is offering.

PHOTO: The United States' hacking accusation against Russia raised the issue of
President Obama's possible responses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL DRAGO/THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A12)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 8, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Accuses Russia of Directing Hacks to Influence the Election

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and CHARLIE SAVAGE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1427 words


WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration on Friday formally accused the Russian
government of stealing and disclosing emails from the Democratic National
Committee and a range of other institutions and prominent individuals,
immediately raising the issue of whether President Obama would seek sanctions or
other retaliation.

In a statement from the director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr.,
and the Department of Homeland Security, the government said the leaked emails
that have appeared on a variety of websites ''are intended to interfere with the
U.S. election process.''

The emails were posted on the well-known WikiLeaks site and two newer sites,
DCLeaks.com and Guccifer 2.0, identified as being associated with Russian
intelligence.

''We believe, based on the scope and sensitivity of these efforts, that only
Russia's senior-most officials could have authorized these activities,'' the
statement said.

It did not name President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, but that appeared to be
the intention.

The statement from Mr. Clapper and the Department of Homeland Security, which is
primarily responsible for defending the country against sophisticated
cyberattacks, said the intelligence agencies were less certain who was
responsible for ''scanning and probing'' online election rolls in states around
the country. It said that those ''in most cases originated from servers operated
by a Russian company,'' but stopped short of alleging the Russian government was
responsible for those probes.

The announcement came only hours after Secretary of State John Kerry called for
the Russian and Syrian governments to face a formal war-crimes investigation
over attacks on civilians in Aleppo and other parts of Syria. Taken together,
the developments mark a sharp escalation of Washington's many confrontations
with Moscow this year.

For weeks, aides to Mr. Obama have been debating whether to openly attribute the
cyberattacks to Russia, and as recently as Wednesday the director of the
National Security Agency, Adm. Michael Rogers, refused to publicly accuse
Moscow.

But with little more than a month to go before the presidential election, one
senior administration official said that Mr. Obama was ''under pressure to act
now,'' in part because a declaration closer to Election Day would appear to be
political. Two days ahead of the second presidential debate, the announcement
also puts the Republican nominee, Donald J. Trump, more on the defensive over
his assertion last month that Mr. Putin is a better leader than Mr. Obama.

In the first debate, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Mr. Trump's
Democratic rival, blamed Russia for the cyberattacks on the Democratic National
Committee, but Mr. Trump said there was no evidence that Russia was responsible;
he suggested it could have been the Chinese or ''somebody sitting on their bed
that weighs 400 pounds.''

Soon after the administration accused the Russians of hacking into the
committee, WikiLeaks published hacked emails from John D. Podesta, the Clinton
campaign chairman.

In a Twitter message Friday evening, Mr. Podesta said that ''I'm not happy about
being hacked by the Russians in their attempt to throw the election to Donald
Trump.''

WikiLeaks has released troves of hacked Democratic emails, but has not revealed
their source.

A major question is how Mr. Obama might respond without setting off an
escalating cyberspace conflict with Russia between now and Nov. 8. One
possibility is that the announcement itself -- an effort to ''name and shame''
-- will deter further action.

But Mr. Obama's aides have assembled a range of possible responses, from using
economic sanctions to covert action against Russian targets, potentially
including the computers used in the hack.

The official accusation against Russia comes after anonymous American
intelligence officials told The New York Times in July that they had ''high
confidence'' that the Russian government was behind the hack of the D.N.C.,
which led to the resignation of Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the
Florida Democrat, as committee chairwoman, amid evidence that the committee was
favoring Mrs. Clinton over her competitor for the party nomination, Senator
Bernie Sanders of Vermont.

The months of subsequent silence frustrated some in Congress, and several weeks
ago the top Democrats on the House and Senate intelligence committees, Adam
Schiff and Dianne Feinstein, both of California, said Russia and its leaders
were responsible, citing classified briefings.

Mr. Schiff, who had urged the Obama administration to name Russia and better
prepare American voters for the possibility of interference between now and the
election, on Friday praised the decision ''to call out Russia on its malevolent
interference in our political affairs.''

''I hope this will establish a deterrent to further meddling,'' he said. ''I
don't think the Russians have decided yet how much they plan to continue their
interference, so I think this attribution is very timely. We're also encouraging
the administration to work with our European partners, who have been the subject
of even worse meddling, to coordinate a response to this.''

Mr. Schiff said he was afraid Russian hackers might attempt to delete or
manipulate voter rolls, causing long lines at the polls and delays in counting
votes because people would be forced to cast provisional ballots. (Voting
machines themselves are not linked to the internet, so it is effectively
impossible to hack them in a systematic way and change the outcome, specialists
say.)

But as ''profound'' as that concern is, Mr. Schiff said, he and others see as
''the most grave risk'' something else: Russia could take emails it has already
stolen, manipulate them to create a false impression that a candidate has done
something outrageous or illegal, and cause them to be published online shortly
before the election.

That, he said, ''could have an election-altering effect.''

Federal officials are trying to help states plug holes in their internet
defenses for election management systems. One thing they will not do before the
election is pronounce such systems ''critical infrastructure,'' as the secretary
of Homeland Security, Jeh Johnson, proposed in August.

Mr. Johnson's notion provoked a backlash from conservatives. Republicans like
Brian P. Kemp, the secretary of state in Georgia, and Jon A. Husted, his
counterpart in Ohio, accused the Obama administration of overreaching, saying it
was trying to carry out a federal takeover.

Administration officials said that the idea of declaring elections systems
critical infrastructure is dead for now, lest it discourage states from working
with the federal government.

''Our focus right now, in the remaining days before Nov. 8, is to encourage
states to come forward and request our assistance,'' Mr. Johnson said in a
recent interview.

The department has offered states two kinds of help, both for free: a remote
cyber ''hygiene'' scan of their servers by department officials who look for
known vulnerabilities and can recommend patches, and a more intensive on-site
analysis by a team of computer security specialists.

The department's emphasis on voluntary measures has met with mixed success: So
far, 28 states have accepted that offer, the department said, but it declined to
name them. Officials with election agencies in the large swing states of Ohio,
North Carolina, and Pennsylvania said they were participating. (Pennsylvania is
particularly important because its electronic voting machines lack a paper audit
trail for recounts.)

Florida, another large swing state, is not participating in this program, but
officials in the office of its secretary of state said they had already been
working with federal partners.

Still, while the number of participants has been slowly creeping up, the window
is closing. A Homeland Security official said it takes about a week to complete
the necessary paperwork to permit the department to begin the work, and that the
more intensive on-site effort takes about two weeks.

That suggests that soon after the middle of October, it will be too late to
provide any help to late takers.

The fact that 22 states are not as yet participating does not necessarily mean
all of them are vulnerable in ways that participants are not. Kay Stimson, a
spokeswoman for the National Association of Secretaries of State, noted that
some states had already been taking cybersecurity measures that are likely
equivalent to what the department is offering.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/08/us/politics/us-formally-accuses-russia-of-stea
ling-dnc-emails.html

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The United States' hacking accusation against Russia raised the
issue of President Obama's possible responses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL DRAGO/THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 13, 2016 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Australia Says Foreign Spies Hacked Into Its Weather Bureau Last Year

BYLINE: By KATIE KENNY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 205 words


HONG KONG -- Australia said on Wednesday that a foreign intelligence service had
hacked into the country's meteorology bureau last year, copying ''an unknown
quantity of documents'' from its computer system.

A report, issued by the Australian Cyber Security Center, did not accuse any
particular country of carrying out the intrusion. The hacking was reported last
year by the Australian news media, which suggested that China was behind the
breach, though its Foreign Ministry later denied that.

Australian investigators found evidence of malware popular with
''state-sponsored cyber adversaries,'' according to the report, which called the
security controls at the Bureau of Meteorology ''insufficient.''

The bureau has one of Australia's most powerful supercomputers and provides
important information to other government agencies. The bureau said on Wednesday
that it continued to provide reliable information on the weather, climate,
oceans and water, adding that its systems were fully operational.

''We continue to work with the Australian Cyber Security Center and other
partner agencies to protect, secure and improve our I.C.T. systems,'' it said in
a statement, referring to information and communications technology.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/13/world/australia/hacking-weather-bureau.html

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      October 15, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

Biden Hints at U.S. Response to Russia for Cyberattacks

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 977 words



HIGHLIGHT: "We're sending a message," the vice president said, when asked about
presumed Russian hacking of Democratic officials and the leaking of stolen
emails.


WASHINGTON -- Since the Obama administration formally accused Russia about a
week ago of trying to interfere in the election, there has been intense
speculation about whether President Obama has ordered the National Security
Agency to conduct a retaliatory cyberstrike.

The strongest hint so far has come from Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who
either revealed American plans for a strike or engaged in one of the better bits
of psychological warfare in recent times.

Taping an interview for NBC's "Meet the Press," Mr. Biden was asked whether the
United States was preparing to send a message to the Russian president, Vladimir
V. Putin. Days before, the American intelligence agencies and the Department of
Homeland Security declared that the Russian leadership was responsible for
attacks on the Democratic National Committee and the leaking of stolen emails.

"We're sending a message," Mr. Biden told Chuck Todd, the show's host. "We have
the capacity to do it."

"He'll know it," Mr. Biden added. "And it will be at the time of our choosing.
And under the circumstances that have the greatest impact."

Later, after Mr. Biden said he was not concerned that Russia could
"fundamentally alter the election," Mr. Todd asked whether the American public
would know if the message to Mr. Putin had been sent.

"Hope not," Mr. Biden responded.

His warning seems to suggest that Mr. Obama is prepared to order -- or has
already ordered -- some kind of covert action after the stolen emails were
published online. That would require what is known in the intelligence agencies
as a finding -- a presidential determination authorizing covert action.

Such a finding would allow the United States to make use of its newly developed
arsenal of cyberweapons, which are under the control of the military's Cyber
Command, the N.S.A. and, in some circumstances, the C.I.A.

Mr. Biden's statement does not exclude the possibility of a response outside the
realm of cyberspace. But most of the other options under discussion in the White
House involve actions that would be public, such as economic sanctions under a
2015 presidential order on responding to cyberattacks. Such sanctions have never
been invoked, but are well suited to cases like the presumed effort to influence
the election.

Some experts, however, say they may be insufficient. James G. Stavridis, the
former supreme allied commander of NATO, wrote in Foreign Policy last week that
the first step could be making America's evidence against Russia public.

"Revealing the names of the officials who authorized the cyberattacks against
the United States would put Moscow in an extremely uncomfortable position,"
wrote Mr. Stavridis, a former admiral who is now dean of the Fletcher School of
Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. "Ideally, the United States could reveal
emails or conversations between Russian officials that demonstrated their intent
to undermine the U.S. electoral process."

But that would run counter to Mr. Biden's "hope not" statement. Mr. Stavridis
and others have advocated other steps, including knocking holes in the Kremlin's
wall of censorship so that opponents of Putin could begin to conspire with one
another.

"As a response to the Russian attacks on the U.S. democratic system, this would
be both proportional and distinctive," Mr. Stavridis wrote. It might also be
deniable -- a key to any covert action approved by the president.

Many others have advocated using cybertechniques to expose Mr. Putin's links to
Russia's oligarchs and reveal his financial holdings overseas, which are
believed to be vast. But such steps would risk escalation, and advisers have
warned Mr. Obama that the United States is more vulnerable than most nations.

Mr. Putin initially denied any Russian involvement in the attacks. But in an
interview several days ago, he said the important thing was not how emails from
Hillary Clinton's campaign had been hacked, but what they said. Sergey V.
Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, went further. "We did not deny this," he
said of the hacking. But he added that the United States had offered no proof.

A crucial question being debated in the White House is whether warnings like Mr.
Biden's will be enough to make Russia, or others, pull back in their hacking.
The calculus behind the decisionto formally accuseRussia was that the mere
publication of the conclusion could temper the activity.

If so, it may not have worked. WikiLeaks in the past few days has published
thousands of emails stolen from the Gmail account of John D. Podesta, the
chairman of the Clinton campaign. While Mr. Podesta has blamed Russia for the
attack, intelligence agencies say they have not formally reached that
conclusion.

There are only two known cases in which Mr. Obama has authorized an offensive
cyberaction. One was the operation against Iran's nuclear program, code-named
Olympic Games. That operation was not detected by the Iranians for years, until
an accidental release of the computer code made it obvious that its centrifuges
were exploding because of a cyberattack.

The other case has been action against the Islamic State, mostly to interfere
with its communications or alter data in its systems. Those attacks were
publicly announced by Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter and others, though no
details were offered.

The announcement seemed intended in part to cause Islamic State insurgents to
question whether their internal communications were genuine.

PHOTO: President Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. at a reception at
the White House on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL DRAGO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Obama Considers 'Proportional' Response to Russian Hacking in U.S.
          Election
     ·    John Podesta Says Russian Spies Hacked His Emails to Sway Election
     ·    What Options Does the U.S. Have After Accusing Russia of Hacks?
     ·    What Is Russia Up To, and Is It Time to Draw the Line?


LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 16, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Biden Hints at U.S. Response to Russia for Cyberattacks Related to Election

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 917 words


WASHINGTON -- Since the Obama administration formally accused Russia about a
week ago of trying to interfere in the election, there has been intense
speculation about whether President Obama has ordered the National Security
Agency to conduct a retaliatory cyberstrike.

The strongest hint so far has come from Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who
either revealed American plans for a strike or engaged in one of the better bits
of psychological warfare in recent times.

Taping an interview for NBC's ''Meet the Press,'' Mr. Biden was asked whether
the United States was preparing to send a message to the Russian president,
Vladimir V. Putin. Days before, the American intelligence agencies and the
Department of Homeland Security declared that the Russian leadership was
responsible for attacks on the Democratic National Committee and the leaking of
stolen emails.

''We're sending a message,'' Mr. Biden told Chuck Todd, the show's host. ''We
have the capacity to do it.''

''He'll know it,'' Mr. Biden added. ''And it will be at the time of our
choosing. And under the circumstances that have the greatest impact.''

Later, after Mr. Biden said he was not concerned that Russia could
''fundamentally alter the election,'' Mr. Todd asked whether the American public
would know if the message to Mr. Putin had been sent.

''Hope not,'' Mr. Biden responded.

His warning seems to suggest that Mr. Obama is prepared to order -- or has
already ordered -- some kind of covert action after the stolen emails were
published online. That would require what is known in the intelligence agencies
as a finding -- a presidential determination authorizing covert action.

Such a finding would allow the United States to make use of its newly developed
arsenal of cyberweapons, which are under the control of the military's Cyber
Command, the N.S.A. and, in some circumstances, the C.I.A.

Mr. Biden's statement does not exclude the possibility of a response outside the
realm of cyberspace. But most of the other options under discussion in the White
House involve actions that would be public, such as economic sanctions under a
2015 presidential order on responding to cyberattacks. Such sanctions have never
been invoked, but are well suited to cases like the presumed effort to influence
the election.

Some experts, however, say they may be insufficient. James G. Stavridis, the
former supreme allied commander of NATO, wrote in Foreign Policy last week that
the first step could be making America's evidence against Russia public.

''Revealing the names of the officials who authorized the cyberattacks against
the United States would put Moscow in an extremely uncomfortable position,''
wrote Mr. Stavridis, a former admiral who is now dean of the Fletcher School of
Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. ''Ideally, the United States could reveal
emails or conversations between Russian officials that demonstrated their intent
to undermine the U.S. electoral process.''

But that would run counter to Mr. Biden's ''hope not'' statement. Mr. Stavridis
and others have advocated other steps, including knocking holes in the Kremlin's
wall of censorship so that opponents of Putin could begin to conspire with one
another.

''As a response to the Russian attacks on the U.S. democratic system, this would
be both proportional and distinctive,'' Mr. Stavridis wrote. It might also be
deniable -- a key to any covert action approved by the president.

Many others have advocated using cybertechniques to expose Mr. Putin's links to
Russia's oligarchs and reveal his financial holdings overseas, which are
believed to be vast. But such steps would risk escalation, and advisers have
warned Mr. Obama that the United States is more vulnerable than most nations.

Mr. Putin initially denied any Russian involvement in the attacks. But in an
interview several days ago, he said the important thing was not how emails from
Hillary Clinton's campaign had been hacked, but what they said. Sergey V.
Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, went further. ''We did not deny this,'' he
said of the hacking. But he added that the United States had offered no proof.

A crucial question being debated in the White House is whether warnings like Mr.
Biden's will be enough to make Russia, or others, pull back in their hacking.
The calculus behind the decision to formally accuse Russia was that the mere
publication of the conclusion could temper the activity.

If so, it may not have worked. WikiLeaks in the past few days has published
thousands of emails stolen from the Gmail account of John D. Podesta, the
chairman of the Clinton campaign. While Mr. Podesta has blamed Russia for the
attack, intelligence agencies say they have not formally reached that
conclusion.

There are only two known cases in which Mr. Obama has authorized an offensive
cyberaction. One was the operation against Iran's nuclear program, code-named
Olympic Games. That operation was not detected by the Iranians for years, until
an accidental release of the computer code made it obvious that its centrifuges
were exploding because of a cyberattack.

The other case has been action against the Islamic State, mostly to interfere
with its communications or alter data in its systems. Those attacks were
publicly announced by Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter and others, though no
details were offered.

The announcement seemed intended in part to cause Islamic State insurgents to
question whether their internal communications were genuine.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/16/us/politics/biden-hints-at-us-response-to-cybe
rattacks-blamed-on-russia.html

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. at a
reception at the White House on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL DRAGO/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 17, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stepping Up Security for an Internet-of-Things World

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1174 words


The vision of the so-called internet of things -- giving all sorts of physical
things a digital makeover -- has been years ahead of reality. But that gap is
closing fast.

Today, the range of things being computerized and connected to networks is
stunning, from watches, appliances and clothing to cars, jet engines and factory
equipment. Even roadways and farm fields are being upgraded with digital
sensors. In the last two years, the number of internet-of-things devices in the
world has surged nearly 70 percent to 6.4 billion, according to Gartner, a
research firm. By 2020, the firm forecasts, the internet-of-things population
will reach 20.8 billion.

The optimistic outlook is that the internet of things will be an enabling
technology that will help make the people and physical systems of the world --
health care, food production, transportation, energy consumption -- smarter and
more efficient.

The pessimistic outlook? Hackers will have something else to hack. And consumers
accustomed to adding security tools to their computers and phones should expect
to adopt similar precautions with internet-connected home appliances.

''If we want to put networked technologies into more and more things, we also
have to find a way to make them safer,'' said Michael Walker, a program manager
and computer security expert at the Pentagon's advanced research arm. ''It's a
challenge for civilization.''

To help address that challenge, Mr. Walker and the Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency, or Darpa, created a contest with millions of dollars in prize
money, called the Cyber Grand Challenge. To win, contestants would have to
create automated digital defense systems that could identify and fix software
vulnerabilities on their own -- essentially smart software robots as sentinels
for digital security.

A reminder of the need for stepped-up security came a few weeks after the
Darpa-sponsored competition, which was held in August. Researchers for Level 3
Communications, a telecommunications company, said they had detected several
strains of malware that launched attacks on websites from compromised
internet-of-things devices.

The Level 3 researchers, working with Flashpoint, an internet risk-management
firm, found that as many as one million devices, mainly security cameras and
video recorders, had been harnessed for so-called botnet attacks. They called it
''a drastic shift'' toward using internet-of-things devices as hosts for attacks
instead of traditional hosts, such as hijacked data center computers and
computer routers in homes.

And last week, researchers at Akamai Technologies, a web content delivery
company, reported another security breach. They detected hackers commandeering
as many as two million devices, including Wi-Fi hot spots and satellite
antennas, to test whether stolen user names and passwords could be deployed to
gain access to websites.

The Cyber Grand Challenge was announced in 2013, and qualifying rounds began in
2014. At the outset, more than 100 teams were in the contest. Through a series
of elimination rounds, the competitors were winnowed to seven teams that
participated in the finals in August in Las Vegas. The three winning teams
collected a total of $3.75 million in prize money.

With the computer security contest, Darpa took a page from a playbook that
worked in the past. The agency staged a similar contest that served to
jump-start the development of self-driving cars in 2005. It took the winning
team's autonomous vehicle nearly seven hours to complete the 132-mile course, a
dawdling pace of less than 20 miles per hour.

Still, the 2005 contest proved that autonomous vehicles were possible, brushing
aside longstanding doubts and spurring investment and research that led to the
commercialization of self-driving car technology.

''We're at that same moment with autonomous cyberdefense,'' Mr. Walker said.

The contest, according the leaders of the three winning teams, was a technical
milestone, but it also shed light on how machine automation and human expertise
might be most efficiently combined in computer security.

In the security industry, the scientists say, there is a lot of talk of
''self-healing systems.'' But the current state of automation, they add,
typically applies to one element of security, such as finding software
vulnerabilities, monitoring networks or deploying software patches. And
automated malware detection, for instance, is often based on large databases of
known varieties of malicious code.

For the Darpa test, the attack code was new, created for the event. In the
capture-the-flag style contest, the teams played both offense and defense. For
the humans, it was hands-off during the competition. The software was on its own
to find and exploit flaws in opponents' software, scan networks for incoming
assaults and write code to tighten its defenses.

The winners succeeded in integrating different software techniques, in ways not
done before, into automated ''cybersecurity systems.'' The contest was conducted
in a walled-off computing environment rather than the open internet.

The scientists agree that further development work needs to be done for the
technology to be used broadly on commercial networks and the open internet.

''But this was a demonstration that automated cyberdefense is mature enough, and
it's coming,'' said David Melski, captain of the second-place team whose members
came from the University of Virginia and a spinoff start-up from Cornell
University, GrammaTech, where Mr. Melski heads research.

The first-place team, which won $2 million, was a group from ForAllSecure, a
spinoff from Carnegie Mellon University. Hours after the Darpa contest, its
cyberreasoning software, called Mayhem, went up against the best human teams at
Defcon, an annual hacking competition.

In that three-day contest, Mayhem held its own for two days and proved itself to
be extremely strong on defense. But by the third day, the human experts had come
up with more innovative exploits than Mayhem, said David Brumley, a professor at
Carnegie Mellon and chief executive of ForAllSecure.

Still, the automated system displayed its power, especially in keeping up with
the scale of security challenges in the internet-of-things era. ''The number of
things automated systems can look at is so vast that it changes the game,'' Mr.
Brumley said.

Yan Shoshitaishvili, a Ph.D. candidate who led the third-place team, a group
from the University of California, Santa Barbara, is focusing his research on
designing ''centaur'' systems that effectively combine machine firepower with
human expertise.

Humans are still better than computers at understanding context -- and security
is so often defined by context. For example, you do want to broadcast your GPS
location data to friends in a social app like Glympse; you do not want a program
sending out location data if you're in a battlefield tank.

''In the real world,'' Mr. Shoshitaishvili said, ''humans can assist these
automated systems. That's the path ahead.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/17/technology/security-internet.html

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The finals of the Cyber Grand Challenge, in which contestants
had to create automated digital defense systems that could identify and fix
software vulnerabilities on their own, was held in August in Las Vegas.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRANDON MAGNUS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs

                            October 17, 2016 Monday

Stepping Up Security for an Internet-of-Things World

BYLINE: STEVE LOHR

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1182 words



HIGHLIGHT: As appliances, cars and factory machines are computerized and
connected to networks, we may become more efficient but hackers will have more
to hack.


The vision of the so-called internet of things - giving all sorts of physical
things a digital makeover - has been years ahead of reality. But that gap is
closing fast.

Today, the range of things being computerized and connected to networks is
stunning, from watches, appliances and clothing to cars, jet engines and factory
equipment. Even roadways and farm fields are being upgraded with digital
sensors. In the last two years, the number of internet-of-things devices in the
world has surged nearly 70 percent to 6.4 billion, according to Gartner, a
research firm. By 2020, the firm forecasts, the internet-of-things population
will reach 20.8 billion.

The optimistic outlook is that the internet of things will be an enabling
technology that will help make the people and physical systems of the world -
health care, food production, transportation, energy consumption - smarter and
more efficient.

The pessimistic outlook? Hackers will have something else to hack. And consumers
accustomed to adding security tools to their computers and phones should expect
to adopt similar precautions with internet-connected home appliances.

"If we want to put networked technologies into more and more things, we also
have to find a way to make them safer," said Michael Walker, a program manager
and computer security expert at the Pentagon's advanced research arm. "It's a
challenge for civilization."

To help address that challenge, Mr. Walker and the Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency, or Darpa, created a contest with millions of dollars in prize
money, called the Cyber Grand Challenge. To win, contestants would have to
create automated digital defense systems that could identify and fix software
vulnerabilities on their own - essentially smart software robots as sentinels
for digital security.

A reminder of the need for stepped-up security came a few weeks after the
Darpa-sponsored competition, which was held in August. Researchers for Level 3
Communications, a telecommunications company, said they had detected several
strains of malwarethat launched attacks on websites from compromised
internet-of-things devices.

The Level 3 researchers, working with Flashpoint, an internet risk-management
firm, found that as many as one million devices, mainly security cameras and
video recorders, had been harnessed for so-called botnet attacks. They called it
"a drastic shift" toward using internet-of-things devices as hosts for attacks
instead of traditional hosts, such as hijacked data center computers and
computer routers in homes.

And last week, researchers at Akamai Technologies, a web content delivery
company, reported another security breach. They detected hackers commandeering
as many as two million devices, including Wi-Fi hot spots and satellite
antennas, to test whether stolen user names and passwords could be deployed to
gain access to websites.

The Cyber Grand Challenge was announced in 2013, and qualifying rounds began in
2014. At the outset, more than 100 teams were in the contest. Through a series
of elimination rounds, the competitors were winnowed to seven teams that
participated in the finals in August in Las Vegas. The three winning teams
collected a total of $3.75 million in prize money.

With the computer security contest, Darpa took a page from a playbook that
worked in the past. The agency staged a similar contest that served to
jump-start the development of self-driving cars in 2005. It took the winning
team's autonomous vehicle nearly seven hours to complete the 132-mile course, a
dawdling pace of less than 20 miles per hour.

Still, the 2005 contest proved that autonomous vehicles were possible, brushing
aside longstanding doubts and spurring investment and research that led to the
commercialization of self-driving car technology.

"We're at that same moment with autonomous cyberdefense," Mr. Walker said.

The contest, according the leaders of the three winning teams, was a technical
milestone, but it also shed light on how machine automation and human expertise
might be most efficiently combined in computer security.

In the security industry, the scientists say, there is a lot of talk of
"self-healing systems." But the current state of automation, they add, typically
applies to one element of security, such as finding software vulnerabilities,
monitoring networks or deploying software patches. And automated malware
detection, for instance, is often based on large databases of known varieties of
malicious code.

For the Darpa test, the attack code was new, created for the event. In the
capture-the-flag style contest, the teams played both offense and defense. For
the humans, it was hands-off during the competition. The software was on its own
to find and exploit flaws in opponents' software, scan networks for incoming
assaults and write code to tighten its defenses.

The winners succeeded in integrating different software techniques, in ways not
done before, into automated "cybersecurity systems." The contest was conducted
in a walled-off computing environment rather than the open internet.

The scientists agree that further development work needs to be done for the
technology to be used broadly on commercial networks and the open internet.

"But this was a demonstration that automated cyberdefense is mature enough, and
it's coming," said David Melski, captain of the second-place team whose members
came from the University of Virginia and a spinoff start-up from Cornell
University, GrammaTech, where Mr. Melski heads research.

The first-place team, which won $2 million, was a group from ForAllSecure, a
spinoff from Carnegie Mellon University. Hours after the Darpa contest, its
cyberreasoning software, called Mayhem, went up against the best human teams at
Defcon, an annual hacking competition.

In that three-day contest, Mayhem held its own for two days and proved itself to
be extremely strong on defense. But by the third day, the human experts had come
up with more innovative exploits than Mayhem, said David Brumley, a professor at
Carnegie Mellon and chief executive of ForAllSecure.

Still, the automated system displayed its power, especially in keeping up with
the scale of security challenges in the internet-of-things era. "The number of
things automated systems can look at is so vast that it changes the game," Mr.
Brumley said.

Yan Shoshitaishvili, a Ph.D. candidate who led the third-place team, a group
from the University of California, Santa Barbara, is focusing his research on
designing "centaur" systems that effectively combine machine firepower with
human expertise.

Humans are still better than computers at understanding context - and security
is so often defined by context. For example, you do want to broadcast your GPS
location data to friends in a social app like Glympse; you do not want a program
sending out location data if you're in a battlefield tank.

"In the real world," Mr. Shoshitaishvili said, "humans can assist these
automated systems. That's the path ahead."


     ·    Latest to Quit Google's Self-Driving Car Unit: Top Roboticist
     ·    Google, Lagging Amazon, Races Across the Threshold Into the Home


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       October 18, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

5 Tips for Saving on Holiday Air Travel;
Update

BYLINE: JUSTIN SABLICH

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 742 words



HIGHLIGHT: When it comes to Thanksgiving and winter holiday travel, book early
(the day you fly matters, too).


When it comes to holiday travel, it is generally true that the earlier you book,
the better -- though there are several factors at play.

"One of the problems is that everybody looks for a rule of thumb, and it is
different depending on the market you are traveling," said Patrick Surry, the
chief data scientist at Hopper, a website and app that advises travelers when to
book flights.

But timing really can be everything when it comes to locking up the best holiday
airfares. Here are five guidelines to follow if you want more money to spend on
presents this winter.

You Can Wait, but Not Too Long

A survey by the travel search company Skyscanner found that 39 percent of
holiday travelers say they prefer to book four to six weeks ahead of departure,
with the rest choosing to book months, if not one full year, in advance.

If you're in that group that has procrastinating in its blood, you still have
some time before things really get out of hand.

"The prices start off pretty high, because people tend to have limited
flexibility when it comes to Thanksgiving," Mr. Surry said. "But they stay flat
up until probably three weeks out, when they start to ramp up, and in the last
10 days they really spike."

Last year, the lowest ticket prices for Thanksgiving week were available about
60 to 70 days ahead of departure, or late September, according todata analyzed
by Hopper.

If you book between now and the end of October, you'll likely spend around $325
for an average domestic flight, according to Hopper. Waiting until November will
cost about $58 more a ticket, according to analysis by CheapAir.com. Hopper puts
it at about $1.50 per day during the first weeks of November; $6 per day 10 days
out from Thanksgiving.

Sticking with the holiday theme, Mr. Surry said Halloween is a good marker for
when you should have your Thanksgiving travel plans sorted out.

Thanksgiving week is also a good guidepost for when to have your Christmas
travel plans settled, though Hopper said booking in early October will give you
the best rates. Skyscanner predicts that, based on its 2015 data, booking
Thanksgiving week could offer savings of 6.41 percent compared with rates
available after.

The Day of the Week Matters

Most people would love not to travel on the Wednesday before Thanksgiving just
to avoid the crowds, but it's also one of the most expensive days to fly, along
with the Saturday before and the Sunday after, Mr. Surry said.

According to CheapAir.com, the Friday after Thanksgiving is not just good for
retailers. Along with the following Tuesday, it's the cheapest return day.
Hopper said flying on any day that week but Wednesday will be about 20 percent
cheaper.

More Flexibility, More Savings

If you're just looking to get away, the more options you consider, the better
rate you may find.

"I think people have a lot more flexibility when it comes to when they're going
to travel and where they're going to travel," Mr. Surry said of Christmastime
travel. "You know you're all not necessarily going home for that holiday."

According to Hopper, Christmas Eve, Christmas Day and New Year's Eve are the
cheapest days to fly for the winter holidays. Departing on Tuesday, Dec. 20, and
returning Thursday, Jan. 5, is the next best bet. Flexibility will also put
Cyber Monday into play. Hopper said great deals were spotted last year in the
week following Thanksgiving, "if you're willing to travel at sort of strange
times," Mr. Surry added.

Don't Expect Last-Minute Deals

Unless you're really spontaneous, and don't really want to see your family,
there's no good reason to gamble on last-minute bargains.

"Particularly around the holidays, there's such an increase in demand that
you're much less likely to find a bargain, unless you have complete flexibility
on where you're going to go," Mr. Surry said.

Expedia.com analysis of 2015 data from September through November confirmed that
airfare for Thanksgiving week was at its peak within six days of departure (an
average of $390).

Set Up Email and Mobile Alerts

Because the cost of your airfare also depends on where you're going, you might
want to safeguard yourself from a fluctuating marketplace. Google Flights,
Hopper, Skyscanner and others can notify you via email or with smartphone
notifications when a fare changes and may be at its lowest.

Follow Justin Sablich on Twitter: @JustinSablich

PHOTO: Travelers should have Thanksgiving plans sorted out by Halloween.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SETH WENIG/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs

                            October 18, 2016 Tuesday

5 Tips for Saving on Holiday Air Travel

BYLINE: JUSTIN SABLICH

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 731 words



HIGHLIGHT: When it comes to Thanksgiving and winter holiday travel, book early
(the day you fly matters, too).


When it comes to holiday travel, it is generally true that the earlier you book,
the better - though there are several factors at play.

"One of the problems is that everybody looks for a rule of thumb, and it is
different depending on the market you are traveling," said Patrick Surry, the
chief data scientist at Hopper, a website and app that advises travelers when to
book flights.

But timing really can be everything when it comes to locking up the best holiday
airfares. Here are five guidelines to follow if you want more money to spend on
presents this winter.

You Can Wait, but Not Too Long

A survey by the travel search company Skyscanner found that 39 percent of
holiday travelers say they prefer to book four to six weeks ahead of departure,
with the rest choosing to book months, if not one full year, in advance.

If you're in that group that has procrastinating in its blood, you still have
some time before things really get out of hand.

"The prices start off pretty high, because people tend to have limited
flexibility when it comes to Thanksgiving," Mr. Surry said. "But they stay flat
up until probably three weeks out, when they start to ramp up, and in the last
10 days they really spike."

Last year, the lowest ticket prices for Thanksgiving week were available about
60 to 70 days ahead of departure, or late September, according todata analyzed
by Hopper.

If you book between now and the end of October, you'll likely spend around $325
for an average domestic flight, according to Hopper. Waiting until November will
cost about $58 more a ticket, according to analysis by CheapAir.com. Hopper puts
it at about $1.50 per day during the first weeks of November; $6 per day 10 days
out from Thanksgiving.

Sticking with the holiday theme, Mr. Surry said Halloween is a good marker for
when you should have your Thanksgiving travel plans sorted out.

Thanksgiving week is also a good guidepost for when to have your Christmas
travel plans settled, though Hopper said booking in early October will give you
the best rates. Skyscanner predicts that, based on its 2015 data, booking
Thanksgiving week could offer savings of 6.41 percent compared with rates
available after.

The Day of the Week Matters

Most people would love not to travel on the Wednesday before Thanksgiving just
to avoid the crowds, but it's also one of the most expensive days to fly, along
with the Saturday before and the Sunday after, Mr. Surry said.

According to CheapAir.com, the Friday after Thanksgiving is not just good for
retailers. Along with the following Tuesday, it's the cheapest return day.
Hopper said flying on any day that week but Wednesday will be about 20 percent
cheaper.

More Flexibility, More Savings

If you're just looking to get away, the more options you consider, the better
rate you may find.

"I think people have a lot more flexibility when it comes to when they're going
to travel and where they're going to travel," Mr. Surry said of Christmastime
travel. "You know you're all not necessarily going home for that holiday."

According to Hopper, Christmas Eve, Christmas Day and New Year's Eve are the
cheapest days to fly for the winter holidays. Departing on Tuesday, Dec. 20, and
returning Thursday, Jan. 5, is the next best bet. Flexibility will also put
Cyber Monday into play. Hopper said great deals were spotted last year in the
week following Thanksgiving, "if you're willing to travel at sort of strange
times," Mr. Surry added.

Don't Expect Last-Minute Deals

Unless you're really spontaneous, and don't really want to see your family,
there's no good reason to gamble on last-minute bargains.

"Particularly around the holidays, there's such an increase in demand that
you're much less likely to find a bargain, unless you have complete flexibility
on where you're going to go," Mr. Surry said.

Expedia.com analysis of 2015 data from September through November confirmed that
airfare for Thanksgiving week was at its peak within six days of departure (an
average of $390).

Set Up Email and Mobile Alerts

Because the cost of your airfare also depends on where you're going, you might
want to safeguard yourself from a fluctuating marketplace. Google Flights,
Hopper, Skyscanner and others can notify you via email or with smartphone
notifications when a fare changes and may be at its lowest.

Travelers should have Thanksgiving plans sorted out by Halloween. SETH
WENIG/ASSOCIATED PRESS

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 20, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Czechs Arrest Man Wanted by the F.B.I. for Hacking

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN and HANA de GOEIJ; Reporting was contributed by Matt
Apuzzo, Adam Goldman and Eric Lichtblau from Washington; Neil MacFarquhar and
Ivan Nechepurenko from Moscow; and Nicole Perlroth from San Francisco.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 761 words


PRAGUE -- A man identified as a Russian hacker suspected of pursuing targets in
the United States has been arrested in the Czech Republic, the police announced
Tuesday evening.

The suspect was captured in a raid at a hotel in central Prague on Oct. 5, about
12 hours after the authorities heard that he was in the country, where he drove
around in a luxury car with his girlfriend, according to the police. The man did
not resist arrest, but he had medical problems and was briefly hospitalized, the
police said in a statement.

David Schön, a police spokesman, said on Wednesday that the arrest of the man,
whose name has not been released, was not announced immediately ''for tactical
reasons.''

The police statement said that ''the man was a Russian citizen suspected of
hacking attacks on targets in the United States,'' and that the raid was
conducted in collaboration with the F.B.I. after Interpol issued an arrest
warrant for him.

The social media company LinkedIn said it believed it had been a victim in the
case. The company, which acts as a virtual job network, said it had been
actively involved in the F.B.I.'s case since it was hacked in 2012.

The F.B.I. said in a statement that the arrest was an example of the
collaboration needed ''to successfully defeat cyber adversaries,'' but declined
to provide any further details.

The arrest occurred two days before the Obama administration formally accused
the Russian government of stealing and disclosing emails from the Democratic
National Committee and other institutions and prominent individuals.

But law enforcement officials in Washington, speaking on condition of anonymity
because they were not authorized to comment while the investigation was
underway, said Wednesday that the suspect did not appear to be related to the
hacking of the Democrats' emails or to organizations like DCLeaks or WikiLeaks.

A judge in Prague has ordered the man to remain in custody, and a court will
examine whether to extradite him to the United States.

The Russian Embassy in Prague called for the man to be released.

''We insist that the detained Russian citizen should be transferred to Russia,''
the state-run Russian news agency Tass quoted Aleksei Kolmakov, the embassy's
spokesman, as saying.

Mr. Kolmakov said that the embassy had been notified about the detention, but
that the Kremlin's spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, had told the news website RBK
that it did not have details about the man's identity.

Jakub Janda, who studies the Russian government and is a deputy director of the
European Values Think-Tank in Prague, said that the arrest served as
confirmation that ''the Czech Republic is so far considered a safe base for
Russian intelligence and influence activities focused on Western targets.''

He added, ''Prague is unofficially considered to be a springboard for some
Kremlin activities inside Europe, also using huge Russian diplomatic presence of
approximately 140 staff.''

Mr. Janda also said that the arrest showed that ''Western governments are waking
up and finally considering hostile Russian intelligence and disinformation
operations to be an open and urgent threat, even at the level of the U.S.
administration.''

He added, ''Open arrests of hostile individuals such as this one can serve as a
deterrent element.''

The United States director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., said
in a statement on Oct. 7 that high-level Russian officials were trying to
interfere with American elections.

''The recent disclosures of alleged hacked emails on sites like DCLeaks.com and
WikiLeaks and by the Guccifer 2.0 online persona are consistent with the methods
and motivations of Russian-directed efforts,'' Mr. Clapper said. ''These thefts
and disclosures are intended to interfere with the U.S. election process.''

The antisecrecy organizations DCLeaks and WikiLeaks have been involved with the
disclosures of illegally obtained emails from the hacked accounts of prominent
figures including Colin L. Powell, the former secretary of state, and John D.
Podesta, the chairman of Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign. Guccifer 2.0
is the assumed name of a Romanian ''lone hacker'' responsible for copying
thousands of emails and other files from the Democratic committee, but experts
are not certain if the hacker is a person or a front created by Russian
intelligence officials.

It appears that the man arrested in Prague is not related to the hackers Mr.
Clapper described.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/20/world/europe/prague-russian-hacker.html

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 20, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hacking Tools Among Data Stolen From U.S.

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE, MATT APUZZO and JO BECKER; Adam Goldman contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1608 words


WASHINGTON -- Investigators pursuing what they believe to be the largest case of
mishandling classified documents in United States history have found that the
huge trove of stolen documents in the possession of a National Security Agency
contractor included top-secret N.S.A. hacking tools that two months ago were
offered for sale on the internet.

They have been hunting for electronic clues that could link those cybertools --
computer code posted online for auction by an anonymous group calling itself the
Shadow Brokers -- to the home computers of the contractor, Harold T. Martin III,
who was arrested in late August on charges of theft of government property and
mishandling of classified information.

But so far, the investigators have been frustrated in their attempt to prove
that Mr. Martin deliberately leaked or sold the hacking tools to the Shadow
Brokers or, alternatively, that someone hacked into his computer or otherwise
took them without his knowledge. While they have found some forensic clues that
he might be the source, the evidence is not conclusive, according to a dozen
officials who have been involved in or have been briefed on the investigation.

All spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss
it publicly.

Mr. Martin, an enigmatic loner who according to acquaintances frequently
expressed his excitement about his role in the growing realm of cyberwarfare,
has insisted that he got in the habit of taking material home so he could
improve his skills and be better at his job, according to these officials. He
has explained how he took the classified material but denied having knowingly
passed it to anyone else.

''As a contractor, he gets to see a slice of the overall picture,'' said one
person familiar with the exchanges, summarizing Mr. Martin's explanation. ''He
wanted to see the overall picture so that he could be more effective.''

The material the F.B.I. found in his possession added up to ''many terabytes''
of information, according to court papers, which would make it by far the
largest unauthorized leak of classified material from the classified sector.
That volume dwarfs the hundreds of thousands of N.S.A. documents taken by Edward
J. Snowden in 2013 and exceeds even the more voluminous Panama Papers, leaked
records of offshore companies obtained by a German newspaper in 2015, which
totaled 2.6 terabytes. One terabyte of data is equal to the contents of about
one million books.

F.B.I. agents on the case, advised by N.S.A. technical experts, do not believe
Mr. Martin is fully cooperating, the officials say. He has spoken mainly through
his lawyers, James Wyda and Deborah Boardman of the federal public defender's
office in Baltimore. They declined to comment before a detention hearing set for
Friday in federal court.

In interviews, officials described how the Martin case has deeply shaken the
secret world of intelligence, from the N.S.A.'s sprawling campus at Fort Meade,
Md., to the White House. They expressed astonishment that Mr. Martin managed to
take home such a vast collection of classified material over at least 16 years,
undetected by security officers at his workplaces, including the N.S.A., the
Office of the Director of National Intelligence and Pentagon offices. And they
are deeply concerned that some of the mountain of material may, by whatever
route, have reached hackers or hostile intelligence services.

Investigators discovered the hacking tools, consisting of computer code and
instructions on how to use it, in the thousands of pages and dozens of computers
and data storage devices that the F.B.I. seized during an Aug. 27 raid on Mr.
Martin's modest house in suburban Glen Burnie, Md. More secret material was
found in a shed in his yard and in his car, officials said.

The search came after the Shadow Brokers leak set off a panicked hunt at the
N.S.A. Mr. Martin attracted the F.B.I.'s attention by posting something on the
internet that was brought to the attention of the N.S.A. Whatever it was --
officials are not saying exactly what -- it finally set off an alarm.

The release of the N.S.A.'s hacking tools, even though they dated to 2013, is
extraordinarily damaging, said Dave Aitel, a former agency employee who now runs
Immunity Inc., an information security company.

''The damage from this release is huge, both to our ability to protect ourselves
on the internet and our ability to provide intelligence to policy makers and the
military,'' Mr. Aitel said.

The N.S.A.'s hacking into other countries' networks can be for defensive
purposes: By identifying rivals' own hacking methods, the agency can recognize
and defend against them, he said. And other countries, with some of the N.S.A.'s
tools now in hand, can study past hacks and identify the attacker as the N.S.A.,
learn how to block similar intrusions, or even decide to retaliate, Mr. Aitel
said.

Mr. Martin, 51, a Navy veteran who was completing a Ph.D. in information systems
at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, has worked for several of the
contracting companies that help staff the nation's security establishment. After
stints at the Computer Sciences Corporation and Tenacity Solutions, where he was
assigned to the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, he joined Booz
Allen Hamilton in 2009. He worked on that firm's N.S.A. contract until 2015,
when he was moved to a different Pentagon contract in the area of offensive
cyberwarfare.

He has long held a high-level clearance and for a time worked with the N.S.A.'s
premier hacking unit, called Tailored Access Operations, which breaks into the
computer networks of foreign countries and which developed the hacking tools
later obtained by the Shadow Brokers. According to one person briefed on the
investigation, Mr. Martin was able to obtain some of the hacking tools by
accessing a digital library of such material at the N.S.A.

@cyberwar @guardian @VICE @mashable @wired @kaspersky @symantec Equation Group -
Cyber Weapon Auction #EQGRP_Auction https://t.co/MWOsLcBnWU -- theshadowbrokers
(@shadowbrokerss) August 13, 2016

One possibility investigators are considering is that Mr. Martin did not
knowingly share the Shadow Brokers material but that it was physically stolen
from him -- conceivable given the descriptions of the chaos of his house, shed
and car -- or more likely, grabbed by hackers. But the forensic examination of
Mr. Martin's computers has so far turned up no evidence that he was hacked,
officials say.

At the core of the investigation, if Mr. Martin deliberately shared the secret
N.S.A. tools, is the mystery of his motive. People who know him call him deeply
patriotic and say they do not believe he would have given classified information
to another country. They also say he has never been interested in politics,
making unlikely a politically motivated leak like that of Mr. Snowden, who
thought the N.S.A. was violating Americans' privacy.

The F.B.I. is considering whether he might have sold the hacking tools or other
materials for money. His annual salary in recent years has exceeded $100,000 and
he owns his house without a mortgage. But he has long bought expensive suits and
Rolex watches, according to an old acquaintance, and a person familiar with his
finances says he has struggled with debt. Court records show one past lien, an
$8,997 state tax bill imposed in 2000 and not paid off until 2014.

Some people who know Mr. Martin favor a psychological motive for taking the
documents home -- one that echoes what he is himself telling investigators: a
drive to distinguish himself and prove that his computer knowledge was equal to
that of the N.S.A.'s top operators.

''He always thought of himself like a James Bond-type person, wanting to save
the world from computer evil,'' said a person who knows him well but would not
speak about him on the record for fear of being pulled into the criminal case.

Last year, commenting online on an article on the future of computer warfare,
Mr. Martin struck a martial and patriotic tone.

''The battles ahead will require a special breed of warrior,'' he wrote. ''It's
really a calling, and something the individual has to want to do as a
profession, due to the sacrifices required to be top flight in this new,
electronic, version of the great game.''

Mr. Martin's tone of confidence reflected his comfort in the world of computer
experts. Mr. Aitel, who runs a popular email list on computer security called
Daily Dave, said Mr. Martin regularly emailed the list and him privately,
usually expressing his enthusiasm for a technical achievement: ''Outstanding!
You rock!'' he wrote about one exploit, Mr. Aitel said.

But Mr. Martin's online self-assurance, people who know him say, masked a timid,
introverted personality. Though he could be warm and generous, he had few
friends, was socially awkward and often seemed lost in his work and doctoral
studies, these people said.

For years, Mr. Martin struggled with obesity, and then had gastric bypass
surgery and lost a lot of weight, according to acquaintances who did not want to
be named because they also did not want to drawn into the investigation. But
within a decade, he had gained most of it back, they said.

Not long before his arrest, Mr. Martin exchanged emails with Mr. Aitel about
attending Mr. Aitel's annual security conference, called Infiltrate, scheduled
for April in Miami.

''He sounded completely normal,'' Mr. Aitel said. ''Making plans for the
future.''

Follow The New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/20/us/harold-martin-nsa.html

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harold T. Martin III and his wife, Deborah Shaw. He is said to
have had expensive items and much debt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEBORAH SHAW) (A19)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 23, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

5 Ways to Save on Holiday Air Travel

BYLINE: By JUSTIN SABLICH

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; UPDATE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 725 words


When it comes to holiday travel, it is generally true that the earlier you book,
the better -- though there are several factors at play.

''One of the problems is that everybody looks for a rule of thumb, and it is
different depending on the market you are traveling,'' said Patrick Surry, the
chief data scientist at Hopper, a website and app that advises travelers when to
book flights.

But timing really can be everything when it comes to locking up the best holiday
airfares. Here are five guidelines to follow if you want more money to spend on
presents this winter.

You Can Wait, but Not Too Long

A survey by the travel search company Skyscanner found that 39 percent of
holiday travelers say they prefer to book four to six weeks ahead of departure,
with the rest choosing to book months, if not one full year, in advance.

If you're in that group that has procrastinating in its blood, you still have
some time before things really get out of hand.

''The prices start off pretty high, because people tend to have limited
flexibility when it comes to Thanksgiving,'' Mr. Surry said. ''But they stay
flat up until probably three weeks out, when they start to ramp up, and in the
last 10 days they really spike.''

Last year, the lowest ticket prices for Thanksgiving week were available about
60 to 70 days ahead of departure, or late September, according to data analyzed
by Hopper.

If you book between now and the end of October, you'll likely spend around $325
for an average domestic flight, according to Hopper. Waiting until November will
cost about $58 more a ticket, according to analysis by CheapAir.com. Hopper puts
it at about $1.50 per day during the first weeks of November; $6 per day 10 days
out from Thanksgiving.

Sticking with the holiday theme, Mr. Surry said Halloween is a good marker for
when you should have your Thanksgiving travel plans sorted out.

Thanksgiving week is also a good guidepost for when to have your Christmas
travel plans settled, though Hopper said booking in early October will give you
the best rates. Skyscanner predicts that, based on its 2015 data, booking
Thanksgiving week could offer savings of 6.41 percent compared with rates
available after.

The Day of the Week Matters

Most people would love not to travel on the Wednesday before Thanksgiving just
to avoid the crowds, but it's also one of the most expensive days to fly, along
with the Saturday before and the Sunday after, Mr. Surry said.

According to CheapAir.com, the Friday after Thanksgiving is not just good for
retailers. Along with the following Tuesday, it's the cheapest return day.
Hopper said flying on any day that week but Wednesday will be about 20 percent
cheaper.

More Flexibility, More Savings

If you're just looking to get away, the more options you consider, the better
rate you may find.

''I think people have a lot more flexibility when it comes to when they're going
to travel and where they're going to travel,'' Mr. Surry said of Christmastime
travel. ''You know you're all not necessarily going home for that holiday.''

According to Hopper, Christmas Eve, Christmas Day and New Year's Eve are the
cheapest days to fly for the winter holidays. Departing on Tuesday, Dec. 20, and
returning Thursday, Jan. 5, is the next best bet. Flexibility will also put
Cyber Monday into play. Hopper said great deals were spotted last year in the
week following Thanksgiving, ''if you're willing to travel at sort of strange
times,'' Mr. Surry added.

Don't Expect Last-Minute Deals

Unless you're really spontaneous, and don't really want to see your family,
there's no good reason to gamble on last-minute bargains.

''Particularly around the holidays, there's such an increase in demand that
you're much less likely to find a bargain, unless you have complete flexibility
on where you're going to go,'' Mr. Surry said.

Expedia.com analysis of 2015 data from September through November confirmed that
airfare for Thanksgiving week was at its peak within six days of departure (an
average of $390).

Set Up Email and Mobile Alerts

Because the cost of your airfare also depends on where you're going, you might
want to safeguard yourself from a fluctuating marketplace. Google Flights,
Hopper, Skyscanner and others can notify you via email or with smartphone
notifications when a fare changes and may be at its lowest.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/23/travel/5-tips-for-saving-on-holiday-air-travel
.html

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Travelers should have Thanksgiving plans sorted out by
Halloween. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SETH WENIG/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 23, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Margaret Siller, Richard England

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 266 words


Margaret Marie Siller and Richard Nathaniel England were married Oct. 22 at
Dahlgren Chapel on the campus of Georgetown University in Washington. The Rev.
Alexei Michalenko, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.

Until last month, Mrs. England, 31, was a law clerk for Judge Victor Marrero of
the Southern District of New York, with chambers in Manhattan. Next month, the
bride will begin working as a litigation associate in the Washington office of
the Los Angeles law firm Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan. She graduated magna
cum laude from Georgetown and received a master's in education from the
University of Hawaii at Manoa. She also received a law degree cum laude from
Northwestern.

She is the daughter of Mary G. Siller and George F. Siller Jr. of Richmond, Va.
Her father retired as a projects analysis manager at Global Real Estate and
Facilities, a division of ExxonMobil in Houston. Her mother retired as a
registered nurse at Texas Children's Pediatrics, also in Houston.

Mr. England, 30, is an Army signals intelligence analyst at Booz Allen Hamilton
in Fort Meade, Md. In August, he was honorably discharged as a petty officer
first class from the Navy. He was last stationed at United States Cyber Command
at Fort Meade.

He is the son of Patricia England Brown and the stepson of David P. Brown of
Hurricane, Utah. His mother, who worked in Helena, Mont., retired as a lawyer
with the Montana Board of Medical Examiners. His stepfather retired as a judge
on the Murray Municipal Justice Court in Utah, with chambers in Midvale, Utah.

The couple met online in 2008.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/24/fashion/weddings/margaret-siller-richard-engla
nd.html

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG GIBSON)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 1, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Why Does Education Translate to Less Support for Donald Trump?;
Reader Forum

BYLINE: TONI MONKOVIC

SECTION: UPSHOT

LENGTH: 2165 words



HIGHLIGHT: Some readers say it has to do with intelligence and knowledge gained,
while others point to a whole host of factors that could be at play.


It's probably the biggest demographic story of this election: Hillary Clinton
has made big gains with well-educated whites, particularly women. And Donald J.
Trump has continued recent Republican gains in winning over less educated
whites, particularly men. As Nate Cohn wrote in an article last month, education
has replaced the culture wars as the defining electoral divide.

But what exactly do we mean by "educated"? Some Upshot readers, responding to
the article, suggested it was about intelligence -- that college-educated people
can see through Mr. Trump because they're smart.

You must mean high I.Q. v. low I.Q. when you say 'college educated' v. working
class. The truth is, we are talking about smart people against not-so-smart
people. -- Mike Barker of Arizona

I wouldn't say that Hillary is "struggling" with less educated voters. I think
the issue is that the world is more complex than it has ever been, and these
voters don't understand our legal system, our electoral system, journalism,
trade issues, the deficit, taxation, the Fed, NATO, the U.N., cyber espionage,
immigration, counterterrorism, nuclear policy, diplomacy, the Geneva Conventions
or the Constitution. -- Jch of NY

The I.Q. connection is purely speculative; no rigorous studies have been
published to support it. Other readers warned against the temptation to
stereotype, pointing to various explanations and showing how difficult it is to
come to definitive conclusions about the education correlation.

It's About What You Learn

These days, the highly educated tend to be liberal. A Pew Research center study
showed this growing connection among those with graduate degrees. Some readers
said it had to do with what you learn at college: You become "educated."

When I started university, I was taken aback by how much I didn't know. It was
exhilarating. Postsecondary education develops intangibles like the ability to
think critically, and I think this explains why non-college-educated audiences
are so vulnerable to exploitation by a Pied Piper like Trump. -- Aaron, Phoenix

Another reader highlighted the advantages of encountering different points of
view on campus.

Higher ed is where a lot of people from conservative families find out that
there are other ways to look at the world than through narrow religious and
political ideologies; where they learn to question authority and distinguish
between fact and opinion; where they discover that there are many people
different from them in myriad ways who also matter. -- Katherine Bailey, Florida

No, It's About Credentials and Social Class

What if you mostly goof off at college -- beer pong at the fraternity instead of
bearing down at the library -- but manage to get a degree? You may not be
"educated" but you still have an edge in the job market: The degree can be a
ticket to a good job and the good life. If you don't have that credential, you
may feel left out and frustrated -- and more willing to shake things up with Mr.
Trump.

This election is divided along class lines. Why do we have such difficulty
saying so?

The invocation of education as the prime delineating factor among the electorate
is just another way to avoid saying the C-word. We're not really talking about
education, after all. We're not talking about how well-read these people are,
about their skills at differential calculus, or whether they can say snarky
things at cocktail parties about the shoddy curation of the Tribeca Film
Festival. No, we're talking about the resentment that poorer people feel toward
the accredited classes." -- Squidge Bailey, Brooklyn

It's worth mentioning that income is not nearly as predictive of presidential
preference in this election as education. Trump supporters are not as poor as a
lot of people think. And at the highest levels of income, the rich are set to
reverse a decades-long pattern and support a Democratic presidential candidate.

Or, You're Learning the Wrong Things

Several readers blamed left-wing bias on campus, particularly among professors
-- or as one reader, L'Osservatore, put it, "the unquestioned control of
collectivists and socialists on 95 percent of college campuses."

When you have "safe zones" where ideas cannot be discussed and explored, you
have indoctrination. Liberals have done all they can to dictate learning in
America for over 40 years. -- MRS Little Rock, Ark.

Why do the college-educated tend to vote Democrat? Simple. A young person
entering any American college will take humanities courses in philosophy,
literature, history, the social sciences, all taught by strongly left-leaning
Democrats. It is impossible that they should emerge from this experience
ideologically untouched.

All this I well know as a recently retired conservative academic of 40-plus
years -- the only Republican in a department of 22 professors." -- Rob, N.C.

Studies have shown that professors have in fact become more liberal, with
faculty members in New England standing out as far more liberal than the rest. A
group of professors, frustrated by this trend, has compiled a Heterodox Academy
ranking of colleges based on ideological diversity.

But other readers, pointing to examples like the rejection by many Republicans
of the science on climate change, said there was an "anti-intellectual" strain
in the modern G.O.P. (Political science aficionados will think back to the book
"Anti-Intellectualism in American Life" by Richard Hofstadter.)

Jane of Santa Rosa said, "This is why Donald Trump -- and the G.O.P. by
extension -- 'love the poorly educated.' "

In 2012, the Republican presidential candidate Rick Santorum called President
Obama "a snob" for urging students to pursue college.

[Video: Santorum: Obama "A Snob" For Wanting Everyone To Go To College Watch on
YouTube.]

A reader, John of Los Angeles, said of conservative complaints of one-sidedness:
"Alternatively: Facts have a liberal bias."

Maybe It's About Location

The clustering of like-minded people -- the so-calledBig Sort -- has been
underway for quite a while, but the effect on political preferences seems to be
accelerating in this election.

Region plays a role. In 2012, President Obama won a fairly high percentage of
the white working class in Wisconsin and Minnesota, states with a tradition of
labor rights and Progressive values. He didn't do nearly as well with
working-class whites in Southern states.

Educated white voters are more likely to live in big cities or near them, areas
that have had better job growth and that tend to lean liberal. The mostly
liberal Northeast has the highest percentage of college graduates -- you're more
likely to be expected to go to college -- and the populous Northeast
megalopolis, for example, draws college graduates searching for jobs.

College graduates from rural towns who move to a metropolitan area for work may
have their views influenced by their new environment and social circles. It's
also possible that their views and interests may prompt them to move, whether in
search of cultural opportunities or like-minded people. The result is social
polarization by place.

Wisconsin is a good state to look at to see the class divisions. Trump is more
popular in the counties where people are less educated and more rural and small
town. In Trump country, Wisconsin, there's resentment of the quality of schools
in and around Madison and Milwaukee, yet they don't want to look at how their
aggressive attack on teachers and public education has convinced teachers to
flock to areas where they are respected and paid well. -- Jcarpenter, Midwest

Living in a blue city in a solidly red state, I think there is a rural/urban
dynamic that many are overlooking. It's less about educated vs. uneducated. A
whole way of life, instead of fading quietly away, is going out with a bang. No
one is putting their start-up next to the grain elevator in a town with one
stoplight. -- Jamie, Sioux Falls, S.D.

I think educated people support Democrats because they have better employment
opportunities over a lifetime, not because they read philosophy in college. If
you live in the I-95 corridor, the communities show growth and opportunities for
education. If you live in small towns in the industrial heartland, your
employment opportunities are limited. -- Mary Mac, New Jersey

Or, About Rational Policy Preferences

A reader, William Hayes of Houston, said, "Trump promises jobs by rolling back
globalization, which appeals to the undereducated, not because they're stupid,
but because they believe decreasing globalization will help them get good jobs."

The "educational" divide is a red herring. We are going to have to think long
and hard about the best way to address wealth inequity in a post-manufacturing
economy. -- BLM, Niagara Falls

Working-class whites have more to lose from Clinton's preference for more free
trade pacts and continued de facto open borders. It's really simple as that. --
Chloe, New England

What About Education and Tolerance?

A reminder here that the education correlation is among whites only. Nonwhites
may have other priorities in assessing Mr. Trump. A reader, Space Needle from
Seattle, wondered if Trump supporters were "simply angry about their perceived
loss of power in a society growing increasingly diverse." An article in The
Times today explores "white anxiety that has fueled political tumult" not just
in the United States, but throughout the Western world.

Perhaps the demographic factor is not so much one's college experience, but
rather the level of exposure a person has to persons of different social, sexual
and cultural backgrounds, education levels, wealth and ethnicity, i.e.
diversity. -- David, California

I can't say what drives the divide in your areas, but in mine (South Alabama),
it is almost always race. The only exception is religion. -- Willard Douglas,
Alabama

Suburban and moderate white voters may be uncomfortable with more explicit
appeals to racial, ethnic and religious resentment -- and those who have the
college credential would have less reason for scapegoating. Some studies have
shown that educationcan increasetolerance, but there's also evidence suggesting
the effect can be overstated when it comes to race.

How Age and Education Connect

One overlooked factor is Mr. Trump's success with older voters. He has polled
much better among those over 65 than among millennials, perhaps because of his
appeal to return America to perceived glory days.

Ed Kilgore of New York magazine said calling people "white working class"
because they don't have a diploma can be misleading: "It is important to
understand that a majority of today's seniors came of age at a time when a
college education really was not necessary for most jobs -- in many cases even
management-track jobs."

Educational attainment has been rising for decades. In the late 1960s, only
about 10 percent of Americans had bachelor's degrees. Today, that number is
almost 33 percent, and for whites, it is around 36 percent. People with degrees
tend to be more reliable voters.

The trends are clear. Each year, educational attainment of the public is
increasing, and that does not bode well for Republicans. -- Tom, Midwest

A Plea for Understanding

Two readers had advice for Democrats:

As a white male without a college degree, I think maybe you shouldn't make such
sweeping generalizations about an entire group of people. This is why we
liberals have a hard time making inroads with this group. -- Brett Hudgins of
Seattle

Perhaps uneducated whites would be more open to the policies of the Democratic
Party if they were approached with greater respect from the Left. Is anyone
surprised that uneducated whites are unreceptive to individuals who castigate
them as being inherently racist and incompetent? Would any reasonable person
expect Latinos to view Trump favorably after he stereotyped them all as being
rapists and criminals? -- Addy, U.S.

Have we missed any reasons that white Americans with college degrees are less
likely to support Mr. Trump? Let us know in the comments.

Update: A reader, DrJ. of Pa., adds a comment about the possible impact of
religion. Mr. Trump is the overwhelming favorite of evangelical Christians:

"I think it's relevant that conservatives are by and large more religious,
certainly more fundamentally religious, than liberals. But religious SCHOLARS
are not so religious.

"In religion, the open mind and love of scholarship leads one away from the path
of the true believer. The desire to cling to tradition (and, I would say,
superstition) leads these conservatives to be less likely to pursue education
and scholarship."

Update: It turns out that Mr. Trump himself has said that people are simply born
smart (or not). He said he's a "gene believer."

[Video: Donald Trump: Eugenics? Watch on YouTube.]

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us onFacebook andTwitter. Sign up for ournewsletter.

Related Articles


     ·    The New Blue and Red: An Educational Split Is Replacing the Culture
          War
     ·    What This 2012 Map Tells Us About America, and the Election


LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 3, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

Five Possible Hacks to Worry About Before Election Day

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1691 words



HIGHLIGHT: Rigged election? Not likely. But much can go wrong, from hacking the
voter rolls to slowing the internet on Nov. 8. And the N.S.A. has its eyes on
Russia.


WASHINGTON -- President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia dismisses the idea that he
has the power to interfere with Tuesday's election. "Does anyone seriously think
that Russia can affect the choice of the American people?" he asked during a
foreign policy conference last week in the resort city of Sochi. "What, is
America a banana republic? America's a great power. Correct me if I'm wrong."

America's top intelligence officials say he is highly unlikely to be able to
alter the results. But they expect Russian hackers, or others, to try to disrupt
the process -- perhaps to help Donald J. Trump, but more likely to simply
undercut what Mr. Putin views as America's holier-than-thou attitudes about its
democratic procedures.

The Obama administration has concluded that much of the email hacking that has
roiled the campaign was almost certainly approved by the Russian leadership.
More recent activity -- including the probing of registration rolls in several
states -- might be the work of independent Russian hackers, it says. While no
one knows what to expect before the polls close, a tight race is more
susceptible to mischief.

So government agencies and commercial enterprises, including some hired by state
election boards facing a determined cyberthreat for the first time, are on high
alert. But they are not exactly sure what to look for. Russian hackers? Other
attackers? Malware that harnesses devices to strike election infrastructure?
More email revelations?

Dmitri Alperovitch of CrowdStrike, the cybersecurity firm that found the
intrusions into the Democratic National Committee's computer servers, said at a
Harvard discussion that while the odds that the results could be manipulated
were "minuscule," he thought hackers' ultimate goal was "to discredit the
results of the election." That is the sort of activity that Russia has long
carried out in Ukraine and other former Soviet states.

Federal and state officials are focusing on five possible ways to hack the
election. Here is a look at their biggest concerns:

A flood of disclosures

(Possible, but hard to make an impact)

In an election that has already been shaken by a series of disclosures -- from
messages hacked by the Russians that ended up in the hands of WikiLeaks to a
cache of emails on the computer of former Representative Anthony D. Weiner that
might be related to the Hillary Clinton email inquiry -- it is not hard to
imagine a last-minute set of revelations. The question is whether they would
make much difference.

So far, the steady drip of documents from WikiLeaks and other sites posting
stolen emails and even the National Security Agency's tools for breaking into
foreign computer networks has not changed the contours of the election. Emails
that seemed to show efforts in the Democratic National Committee to tip the
scales in favor of Mrs. Clinton in the primaries led to the resignation of
Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz as the committee's chairwoman, but they
had little long-lasting effect. A disclosure from the hacking of the email
account of John D. Podesta, the Clinton campaign chairman, bolstered the notion
that Bill Clinton had been enriched by some of the same people who contributed
to the Clinton Global Initiative. But that was not exactly a surprise.

Still, no one knows what else hackers might have stolen, or may be saving for
the last frenetic days of the campaign.

_____

Interfering with voter registration rolls

(Lots to worry about)

In the spring, the F.B.I. warned Arizona, and then Illinois, that someone was
"probing" their central voter registration databases, the ever-changing lists of
people who are legally registered to vote and where they live. Once, those rolls
were kept in big books and dragged to polling places, but today they are held in
databases, often connected to websites that make it easier to register online or
when getting a driver's license.

The vulnerabilities in big central systems are hard to find, as the federal
government learned with the Chinese theft of nearly 22 million security
clearance records from the Office of Personnel Management. Chinese hackers were
inside the systems for more than a year before the government noticed.

Voter databases are not treated as "critical infrastructure" by the federal
government, the way that the Washington Monument or the power grid is. That is
largely because few had the foresight to consider that a foreign attacker could
tinker just enough to cause chaos on Election Day. "We've thought in terms of
structures," Adm. Michael S. Rogers, the director of the National Security
Agency, said recently. "Data is taking on a much larger value in and of itself."
But he noted that "it's the states' responsibility."

Yet many states have underinvested in their systems, and that is why there is so
much concern. Few states even sample their systems to see if the data is
correct, so they might not be able to detect a problem. Starting this summer,
the Department of Homeland Security has raced to perform tests in states that
asked for help -- all but a few have -- but the process was rushed, and the
government will not say what it found.

The fear is that intruders could make minor changes in addresses or other
identifying information, leading to long lines and accusations of "rigging" the
polls. Voters could cast provisional ballots, but it could take months to sort
out.

_____

Manipulating the count reported to news organizations

(A significant risk, but detectable)

Consider this possibility: It is Tuesday evening, and the networks and other
news organizations are clamoring for "unofficial" results so they can call the
races in swing states. The precincts report returns to regional centers, and
that data flows to The Associated Press, the clearinghouse for unverified
returns. If hackers could flip such "data in motion," they could alter the first
call, even if it is an unofficial one. If the numbers then swing back in the
official tally, cries of foul play -- that the numbers got manipulated before
the final calculation -- would surely follow.

Sound far-fetched? It happened recently in Ukraine, in an attack organized by
Russia, experts believe. As Ben Buchanan and Michael Sulmeyer note in a Harvard
Cyber Security Project report, investigations revealed that "offenders were
trying by means of previously installed software to fake election results." The
effort was discovered 40 minutes before the results were scheduled for
announcement. The Harvard report notes that "curiously, pro-Russian TV
nonetheless reported the fake results exactly."

_____

An internet disruption that makes it hard to get to the polls

(The new big fear)

When internet connections across the East Coast slowed to a crawl on Oct. 21,
after a sophisticated attack on a company that serves as a "switchboard" of the
web, it illustrated a new fear for Election Day: an attack that comes just as
voters are looking at their phones to find their polling place, or trying, for
instance, to figure out if the bus will get them there.

That hack was a new twist on an old, crude technique: a "distributed denial of
service" attack that overwhelms websites or the internet's traffic systems with
a barrage of data. In the Oct. 21 attack, which is not believed to have been
conducted by a foreign power, internet-connected devices like security cameras
were infiltrated and programmed en masse to attack Dyn DNS, a firm that helps
connect web searches to the right internet sites.

Such an attack could be directed, for example, at computer systems used by a
campaign's "get out the vote" efforts. "People think of denial-of-service
attacks as very broad," said Andy Ellis, the chief security officer at Akamai, a
firm that helps companies maintain web connectivity. "But they can be very
targeted, very specific, and hard to defend against."

The Department of Homeland Security is setting up a war room for Tuesday to look
for trouble, connected to the F.B.I. and the Justice Department. But they look
primarily at the federal government system. And the National Security Agency,
presumably, is turning on the "implants" it has placed in foreign systems to
detect any attacks. Those implants are all highly classified, so the N.S.A. is
silent about what it can see -- or what it could do if it saw the prelude to an
attack.

_____

Tinkering with voting machines

(Unlikely, but possible)

At every opportunity, federal and state officials are reminding everyone that
voting differs from state to state, or even county to county. That makes it hard
to hack.

"The voting machines themselves are offline, and we think the system is so
diversified it is secure," said Suzanne E. Spaulding, the under secretary of
Homeland Security who oversees cybersecurity efforts.

Outside election experts fear, however, that this nothing-to-see-here confidence
fails to take into account known vulnerabilities. While most voting machines are
not connected to the internet while voting is underway, they are often connected
before Election Day, to update their ballots and software.

Some machines, like the DS200, an optical scanning model used in many districts,
comes with an optional wireless ability. The good news: They can report results
automatically. The bad news: Any wireless connection is a vulnerability.

There are other worries. Five states do not have paper backups to create an
audit trail if the electronic ballots are questioned. Pennsylvania, a swing
state, has paper backups in only some communities. Members of the military who
are based overseas are often permitted to email their ballots, and Alaskans can
use what the state calls "secure online delivery."

"The D.N.C. hack and the release of the emails are a wake-up call," said
Susannah Goodman, the director of voting integrity for Common Cause. "Emailing
is not something you would do with your Social Security number," she added. "So
why would you do it with your ballot?"

Follow The New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.

Related Articles


     ·    U.S. Says Russia Directed Hacks to Influence Elections
     ·    John Podesta Says Russian Spies Hacked His Emails to Sway Election


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 4, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

5 Possible Ways to Hack the Election, and How Much to Worry About Them

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1707 words


WASHINGTON -- President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia dismisses the idea that he
has the power to interfere with Tuesday's election. ''Does anyone seriously
think that Russia can affect the choice of the American people?'' he asked
during a foreign policy conference last week in the resort city of Sochi.
''What, is America a banana republic? America's a great power. Correct me if I'm
wrong.''

America's top intelligence officials say he is highly unlikely to be able to
alter the results. But they expect Russian hackers, or others, to try to disrupt
the process -- perhaps to help Donald J. Trump, but more likely to simply
undercut what Mr. Putin views as America's holier-than-thou attitudes about its
democratic procedures.

The Obama administration has concluded that much of the email hacking that has
roiled the campaign was almost certainly approved by the Russian leadership.
More recent activity -- including the probing of registration rolls in several
states -- might be the work of independent Russian hackers, it says. While no
one knows what to expect before the polls close, a tight race is more
susceptible to mischief.

So government agencies and commercial enterprises, including some hired by state
election boards facing a determined cyberthreat for the first time, are on high
alert. But they are not exactly sure what to look for. Russian hackers? Other
attackers? Malware that harnesses devices to strike election infrastructure?
More email revelations?

Dmitri Alperovitch of CrowdStrike, the cybersecurity firm that found the
intrusions into the Democratic National Committee's computer servers, said at a
Harvard discussion that while the odds that the results could be manipulated
were ''minuscule,'' he thought hackers' ultimate goal was ''to discredit the
results of the election.'' That is the sort of activity that Russia has long
carried out in Ukraine and other former Soviet states.

Federal and state officials are focusing on five possible ways to hack the
election. Here is a look at their biggest concerns:

A flood of disclosures

(Possible, but hard to make an impact)

In an election that has already been shaken by a series of disclosures -- from
messages hacked by the Russians that ended up in the hands of WikiLeaks to a
cache of emails on the computer of former Representative Anthony D. Weiner that
might be related to the Hillary Clinton email inquiry -- it is not hard to
imagine a last-minute set of revelations. The question is whether they would
make much difference.

So far, the steady drip of documents from WikiLeaks and other sites posting
stolen emails and even the National Security Agency's tools for breaking into
foreign computer networks has not changed the contours of the election. Emails
that seemed to show efforts in the Democratic National Committee to tip the
scales in favor of Mrs. Clinton in the primaries led to the resignation of
Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz as the committee's chairwoman, but they
had little long-lasting effect. A disclosure from the hacking of the email
account of John D. Podesta, the Clinton campaign chairman, bolstered the notion
that Bill Clinton had been enriched by some of the same people who contributed
to the Clinton Global Initiative. But that was not exactly a surprise.

Still, no one knows what else hackers might have stolen, or may be saving for
the last frenetic days of the campaign.

_____

Interfering with voter registration rolls

(Lots to worry about)

In the spring, the F.B.I. warned Arizona, and then Illinois, that someone was
''probing'' their central voter registration databases, the ever-changing lists
of people who are legally registered to vote and where they live. Once, those
rolls were kept in big books and dragged to polling places, but today they are
held in databases, often connected to websites that make it easier to register
online or when getting a driver's license.

The vulnerabilities in big central systems are hard to find, as the federal
government learned with the Chinese theft of nearly 22 million security
clearance records from the Office of Personnel Management. Chinese hackers were
inside the systems for more than a year before the government noticed.

Voter databases are not treated as ''critical infrastructure'' by the federal
government, the way that the Washington Monument or the power grid is. That is
largely because few had the foresight to consider that a foreign attacker could
tinker just enough to cause chaos on Election Day. ''We've thought in terms of
structures,'' Adm. Michael S. Rogers, the director of the National Security
Agency, said recently. ''Data is taking on a much larger value in and of
itself.'' But he noted that ''it's the states' responsibility.''

Yet many states have underinvested in their systems, and that is why there is so
much concern. Few states even sample their systems to see if the data is
correct, so they might not be able to detect a problem. Starting this summer,
the Department of Homeland Security has raced to perform tests in states that
asked for help -- all but a few have -- but the process was rushed, and the
government will not say what it found.

The fear is that intruders could make minor changes in addresses or other
identifying information, leading to long lines and accusations of ''rigging''
the polls. Voters could cast provisional ballots, but it could take months to
sort out.

_____

Manipulating the count reported to news organizations

(A significant risk, but detectable)

Consider this possibility: It is Tuesday evening, and the networks and other
news organizations are clamoring for ''unofficial'' results so they can call the
races in swing states. The precincts report returns to regional centers, and
that data flows to The Associated Press, the clearinghouse for unverified
returns. If hackers could flip such ''data in motion,'' they could alter the
first call, even if it is an unofficial one. If the numbers then swing back in
the official tally, cries of foul play -- that the numbers got manipulated
before the final calculation -- would surely follow.

Sound far-fetched? It happened recently in Ukraine, in an attack organized by
Russia, experts believe. As Ben Buchanan and Michael Sulmeyer note in a Harvard
Cyber Security Project report, investigations revealed that ''offenders were
trying by means of previously installed software to fake election results.'' The
effort was discovered 40 minutes before the results were scheduled for
announcement. The Harvard report notes that ''curiously, pro-Russian TV
nonetheless reported the fake results exactly.''

_____

An internet disruption that makes it hard to get to the polls

(The new big fear)

When internet connections across the East Coast slowed to a crawl on Oct. 21,
after a sophisticated attack on a company that serves as a ''switchboard'' of
the web, it illustrated a new fear for Election Day: an attack that comes just
as voters are looking at their phones to find their polling place, or trying,
for instance, to figure out if the bus will get them there.

That hack was a new twist on an old, crude technique: a ''distributed denial of
service'' attack that overwhelms websites or the internet's traffic systems with
a barrage of data. In the Oct. 21 attack, which is not believed to have been
conducted by a foreign power, internet-connected devices like security cameras
were infiltrated and programmed en masse to attack Dyn DNS, a firm that helps
connect web searches to the right internet sites.

Such an attack could be directed, for example, at computer systems used by a
campaign's ''get out the vote'' efforts. ''People think of denial-of-service
attacks as very broad,'' said Andy Ellis, the chief security officer at Akamai,
a firm that helps companies maintain web connectivity. ''But they can be very
targeted, very specific, and hard to defend against.''

The Department of Homeland Security is setting up a war room for Tuesday to look
for trouble, connected to the F.B.I. and the Justice Department. But they look
primarily at the federal government system. And the National Security Agency,
presumably, is turning on the ''implants'' it has placed in foreign systems to
detect any attacks. Those implants are all highly classified, so the N.S.A. is
silent about what it can see -- or what it could do if it saw the prelude to an
attack.

_____

Tinkering with voting machines

(Unlikely, but possible)

At every opportunity, federal and state officials are reminding everyone that
voting differs from state to state, or even county to county. That makes it hard
to hack.

''The voting machines themselves are offline, and we think the system is so
diversified it is secure,'' said Suzanne E. Spaulding, the under secretary of
Homeland Security who oversees cybersecurity efforts.

Outside election experts fear, however, that this nothing-to-see-here confidence
fails to take into account known vulnerabilities. While most voting machines are
not connected to the internet while voting is underway, they are often connected
before Election Day, to update their ballots and software.

Some machines, like the DS200, an optical scanning model used in many districts,
comes with an optional wireless ability. The good news: They can report results
automatically. The bad news: Any wireless connection is a vulnerability.

There are other worries. Five states do not have paper backups to create an
audit trail if the electronic ballots are questioned. Pennsylvania, a swing
state, has paper backups in only some communities. Members of the military who
are based overseas are often permitted to email their ballots, and Alaskans can
use what the state calls ''secure online delivery.''

''The D.N.C. hack and the release of the emails are a wake-up call,'' said
Susannah Goodman, the director of voting integrity for Common Cause. ''Emailing
is not something you would do with your Social Security number,'' she added.
''So why would you do it with your ballot?''

Follow The New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/04/us/politics/five-possible-hacks-to-worry-about
-before-election-day.html

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 6, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

Under the Din of the Presidential Race Lies a Once and Future Threat:
Cyberwarfare

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1519 words



HIGHLIGHT: A defining marker of the 2016 presidential race is that it is the
first time a foreign power used cyberweapons to influence an election in the
United States.


MANCHESTER, N.H. -- The 2016 presidential race will be remembered for many ugly
moments, but the most lasting historical marker may be one that neither voters
nor American intelligence agencies saw coming: It is the first time that a
foreign power has unleashed cyberweapons to disrupt, or perhaps influence, a
United States election.

And there is a foreboding sense that, in elections to come, there is no turning
back.

The steady drumbeat of allegations of Russian troublemaking -- leaks from stolen
emails and probes of election-system defenses -- has continued through the
campaign's last days. These intrusions, current and former administration
officials agree, will embolden other American adversaries, which have been given
a vivid demonstration that, when used with some subtlety, their growing digital
arsenals can be particularly damaging in the frenzy of a democratic election.

"Most of the biggest stories of this election cycle have had a cybercomponent to
them -- or the use of information warfare techniques that the Russians, in
particular, honed over decades," said David Rothkopf, the chief executive and
editor of Foreign Policy, who has written two histories of the National Security
Council. "From stolen emails, to WikiLeaks, to the hacking of the N.S.A.'s
tools, and even the debate about how much of this the Russians are responsible
for, it's dominated in a way that we haven't seen in any prior election."

The magnitude of this shift has gone largely unrecognized in the cacophony of a
campaign dominated by charges of groping and pay-for-play access. Yet the
lessons have ranged from the intensely personal to the geostrategic.

Email, a main conduit of communication for two decades, now appears so
vulnerable that the nation seems to be wondering whether its bursting inboxes
can ever be safe. Election systems, the underpinning of democracy, seem to be at
such risk that it is unimaginable that the United States will go into another
national election without treating them as "critical infrastructure."

But President Obama has been oddly quiet on these issues. He delivered a private
warning to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia during their final face-to-face
encounter two months ago, aides say. Still, Mr. Obama has barely spoken publicly
about the implications of foreign meddling in the election. His instincts, those
who have worked with him on cyberissues say, are to deal with the problem by
developing new norms of international behavior or authorizing covert action
rather than direct confrontation.

After a series of debates in the Situation Room, Mr. Obama and his aides
concluded that any public retaliation should be postponed until after the
election -- to avoid the appearance that politics influenced his decision and to
avoid provoking Russian counterstrikes while voting is underway. It remains
unclear whether Mr. Obama will act after Tuesday, as his aides hint, or leave
the decision about a "proportional response" to his successor.

Cybersleuths, historians and strategists will debate for years whether Russia's
actions reflected a grand campaign of interference or mere opportunism on the
part of Mr. Putin. While the administration has warned for years about the
possibility of catastrophic attacks, what has happened in the past six months
has been far more subtle.

Russia has used the techniques -- what they call "hybrid war," mixing new
technologies with old-fashioned propaganda, misinformation and disruption -- for
years in former Soviet states and elsewhere in Europe. The only surprise was
that Mr. Putin, as he intensified confrontations with Washington as part of a
nationalist campaign to solidify his own power amid a deteriorating economy, was
willing to take them to American shores.

The most common theory is that while the Russian leader would prefer the
election of Donald J. Trump -- in part because Mr. Trump has suggested that NATO
is irrelevant and that the United States should pull its troops back to American
shores -- his primary motive is to undercut what he views as a smug American
sense of superiority about its democratic processes.

Madeleine K. Albright, a former secretary of state who is vigorously supporting
Hillary Clinton, wrote recently that Mr. Putin's goal was "to create doubt about
the validity of the U.S. election results, and to make us seem hypocritical when
we question the conduct of elections in other countries."

If so, this is a very different use of power than what the Obama administration
has long prepared the nation for.

Four years ago, Leon E. Panetta, the defense secretary at the time, warned of an
impending "cyber Pearl Harbor" in which enemies could "contaminate the water
supply in major cities or shut down the power grid across large parts of the
country," perhaps in conjunction with a conventional attack.

That is still a risk, of course -- one that the Pentagon and its United States
Cyber Command spend billions of dollars trying to deter. Yet America's main
adversaries know those steps would constitute an act of war, most likely
prompting an overwhelming military response.

What has come instead -- doling out stolen emails, testing the defenses of the
voting system -- clearly caught the administration off guard.

"The unprecedented use of cyberintrusions to influence this election should
galvanize our country to act," said John P. Carlin, who left the Justice
Department two weeks ago as assistant attorney general for national security, a
post in which he helped oversee legal responses to major Chinese and Iranian
attacks on American banks and other institutions. "Whoever is elected, how to
regulate, defend and deter in cyberspace must be at the top of the national
security agenda."

Yet he noted that "in a campaign where cyberintrusions and threats dominated the
news more than any other in American history, there has been surprisingly little
discussion on how our country should confront the problem going forward."

The severity of the challenge has been particularly evident even in the final
days of the campaign.

The Department of Homeland Security invited reporters on Friday to tour its war
room, a vast monitoring center that is buried deep in a nondescript building in
Virginia and is connected to the National Security Agency and sensors running
through government networks. The center is supposed to be the internet
equivalent of the giant North American Aerospace Defense Command in Cheyenne
Mountain, just outside Colorado Springs, which opened almost exactly 50 years
ago to scan the skies and warn of incoming Soviet nuclear missiles.

The National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center is expected to
do the same thing, but its vision is limited to federal computer systems.
Officials conceded that if a foreign power began tinkering with the registration
rolls or vote-tallying systems on Tuesday -- a process run by the states -- it
was unlikely that direct evidence would show up on the center's screens.

"Our partners would have to call us," one senior official conceded.

Here on Sunday night in the battleground state of New Hampshire, Mrs. Clinton
held one of the final rallies of her campaign just miles from the headquarters
of a company that was taken out two weeks ago in a "denial of service" attack
that paralyzed websites along the East Coast.

Officials at the company, Dyn DNS, and others like it are frantically looking
for ways to ward off another attack on Election Day out of fear that it could
freeze up websites used for getting out the vote, showing people how to get to
polling places or reporting results.

And just a few hours before she arrived here, Mrs. Clinton got news that the
F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, had informed Congress that his agency's review
of the latest batch of her emails, found on the computer of former
Representative Anthony D. Weiner of New York, the estranged husband of one of
Mrs. Clinton's top aides, did nothing to change his view of the case.

Mrs. Clinton's decision to use a private email server, of course, was the
original digital act of this election season -- the decision by Mrs. Clinton
that, to keep her personal emails private, she would conduct her government
business from a private server.

Mr. Comey has never conclusively determined whether the Russians, or any other
foreign power, broke into that server, which was kept in the Clintons' home in
Chappaqua, N.Y. But the Russians had been behind many other break-ins, his
investigators noted, including of the unclassified systems of the State
Department, the White House and the Joint Chiefs of Staff. If they skipped Mrs.
Clinton's server, one investigator noted, it must have been an oversight.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.

PHOTO: President Obama at the National Cybersecurity and Communications
Integration Center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    A Muted Alarm Bell Over Russian Election Hacking
     ·    As Russian Hackers Probe, NATO Has No Clear Cyberwar Strategy
     ·    Pentagon Announces New Strategy for Cyberwarfare


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 7, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Under the Din of the Race Lies a Once and Future Threat: Cyberwarfare

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1483 words


MANCHESTER, N.H. -- The 2016 presidential race will be remembered for many ugly
moments, but the most lasting historical marker may be one that neither voters
nor American intelligence agencies saw coming: It is the first time that a
foreign power has unleashed cyberweapons to disrupt, or perhaps influence, a
United States election.

And there is a foreboding sense that, in elections to come, there is no turning
back.

The steady drumbeat of allegations of Russian troublemaking -- leaks from stolen
emails and probes of election-system defenses -- has continued through the
campaign's last days. These intrusions, current and former administration
officials agree, will embolden other American adversaries, which have been given
a vivid demonstration that, when used with some subtlety, their growing digital
arsenals can be particularly damaging in the frenzy of a democratic election.

''Most of the biggest stories of this election cycle have had a cybercomponent
to them -- or the use of information warfare techniques that the Russians, in
particular, honed over decades,'' said David Rothkopf, the chief executive and
editor of Foreign Policy, who has written two histories of the National Security
Council. ''From stolen emails, to WikiLeaks, to the hacking of the N.S.A.'s
tools, and even the debate about how much of this the Russians are responsible
for, it's dominated in a way that we haven't seen in any prior election.''

The magnitude of this shift has gone largely unrecognized in the cacophony of a
campaign dominated by charges of groping and pay-for-play access. Yet the
lessons have ranged from the intensely personal to the geostrategic.

Email, a main conduit of communication for two decades, now appears so
vulnerable that the nation seems to be wondering whether its bursting inboxes
can ever be safe. Election systems, the underpinning of democracy, seem to be at
such risk that it is unimaginable that the United States will go into another
national election without treating them as ''critical infrastructure.''

But President Obama has been oddly quiet on these issues. He delivered a private
warning to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia during their final face-to-face
encounter two months ago, aides say. Still, Mr. Obama has barely spoken publicly
about the implications of foreign meddling in the election. His instincts, those
who have worked with him on cyberissues say, are to deal with the problem by
developing new norms of international behavior or authorizing covert action
rather than direct confrontation.

After a series of debates in the Situation Room, Mr. Obama and his aides
concluded that any public retaliation should be postponed until after the
election -- to avoid the appearance that politics influenced his decision and to
avoid provoking Russian counterstrikes while voting is underway. It remains
unclear whether Mr. Obama will act after Tuesday, as his aides hint, or leave
the decision about a ''proportional response'' to his successor.

Cybersleuths, historians and strategists will debate for years whether Russia's
actions reflected a grand campaign of interference or mere opportunism on the
part of Mr. Putin. While the administration has warned for years about the
possibility of catastrophic attacks, what has happened in the past six months
has been far more subtle.

Russia has used the techniques -- what they call ''hybrid war,'' mixing new
technologies with old-fashioned propaganda, misinformation and disruption -- for
years in former Soviet states and elsewhere in Europe. The only surprise was
that Mr. Putin, as he intensified confrontations with Washington as part of a
nationalist campaign to solidify his own power amid a deteriorating economy, was
willing to take them to American shores.

The most common theory is that while the Russian leader would prefer the
election of Donald J. Trump -- in part because Mr. Trump has suggested that NATO
is irrelevant and that the United States should pull its troops back to American
shores -- his primary motive is to undercut what he views as a smug American
sense of superiority about its democratic processes.

Madeleine K. Albright, a former secretary of state who is vigorously supporting
Hillary Clinton, wrote recently that Mr. Putin's goal was ''to create doubt
about the validity of the U.S. election results, and to make us seem
hypocritical when we question the conduct of elections in other countries.''

If so, this is a very different use of power than what the Obama administration
has long prepared the nation for.

Four years ago, Leon E. Panetta, the defense secretary at the time, warned of an
impending ''cyber Pearl Harbor'' in which enemies could ''contaminate the water
supply in major cities or shut down the power grid across large parts of the
country,'' perhaps in conjunction with a conventional attack.

That is still a risk, of course -- one that the Pentagon and its United States
Cyber Command spend billions of dollars trying to deter. Yet America's main
adversaries know those steps would constitute an act of war, most likely
prompting an overwhelming military response.

What has come instead -- doling out stolen emails, testing the defenses of the
voting system -- clearly caught the administration off guard.

''The unprecedented use of cyberintrusions to influence this election should
galvanize our country to act,'' said John P. Carlin, who left the Justice
Department two weeks ago as assistant attorney general for national security, a
post in which he helped oversee legal responses to major Chinese and Iranian
attacks on American banks and other institutions. ''Whoever is elected, how to
regulate, defend and deter in cyberspace must be at the top of the national
security agenda.''

Yet he noted that ''in a campaign where cyberintrusions and threats dominated
the news more than any other in American history, there has been surprisingly
little discussion on how our country should confront the problem going
forward.''

The severity of the challenge has been particularly evident even in the final
days of the campaign.

The Department of Homeland Security invited reporters on Friday to tour its war
room, a vast monitoring center that is buried deep in a nondescript building in
Virginia and is connected to the National Security Agency and sensors running
through government networks. The center is supposed to be the internet
equivalent of the giant North American Aerospace Defense Command in Cheyenne
Mountain, just outside Colorado Springs, which opened almost exactly 50 years
ago to scan the skies and warn of incoming Soviet nuclear missiles.

The National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center is expected to
do the same thing, but its vision is limited to federal computer systems.
Officials conceded that if a foreign power began tinkering with the registration
rolls or vote-tallying systems on Tuesday -- a process run by the states -- it
was unlikely that direct evidence would show up on the center's screens.

''Our partners would have to call us,'' one senior official conceded.

Here on Sunday night in the battleground state of New Hampshire, Mrs. Clinton
held one of the final rallies of her campaign just miles from the headquarters
of a company that was taken out two weeks ago in a ''denial of service'' attack
that paralyzed websites along the East Coast.

Officials at the company, Dyn DNS, and others like it are frantically looking
for ways to ward off another attack on Election Day out of fear that it could
freeze up websites used for getting out the vote, showing people how to get to
polling places or reporting results.

And just a few hours before she arrived here, Mrs. Clinton got news that the
F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, had informed Congress that his agency's review
of the latest batch of her emails, found on the computer of former
Representative Anthony D. Weiner of New York, the estranged husband of one of
Mrs. Clinton's top aides, did nothing to change his view of the case.

Mrs. Clinton's decision to use a private email server, of course, was the
original digital act of this election season -- the decision by Mrs. Clinton
that, to keep her personal emails private, she would conduct her government
business from a private server.

Mr. Comey has never conclusively determined whether the Russians, or any other
foreign power, broke into that server, which was kept in the Clintons' home in
Chappaqua, N.Y. But the Russians had been behind many other break-ins, his
investigators noted, including of the unclassified systems of the State
Department, the White House and the Joint Chiefs of Staff. If they skipped Mrs.
Clinton's server, one investigator noted, it must have been an oversight.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/07/us/politics/under-the-din-of-the-presidential-
race-lies-a-once-and-future-threat-cyberwarfare.html

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama at the National Cybersecurity and Communications
Integration Center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 8, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Citing Security, China Will Add Internet Limits

BYLINE: By PAUL MOZUR; Cao Li contributed research from Beijing.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 804 words


HONG KONG -- In August, business groups around the world petitioned China to
rethink a proposed cybersecurity law that they said would hurt foreign companies
and further separate the country from the internet.

On Monday, China passed that law -- a sign that when it comes to the internet,
China will go its own way.

The new rules, which were approved by the country's rubber-stamp Parliament and
will go into effect next summer, are part of a broader effort to better define
how the internet is managed inside China's borders.

Officials say the rules will help stop cyberattacks and help prevent acts of
terrorism, while critics say they will further erode internet freedom. Business
groups worry that parts of the law -- such as required security checks on
companies in industries like finance and communications, and mandatory
in-country data storage -- will make foreign operations more expensive or lock
them out altogether. Individual users will have to register their real names to
use messaging services in China.

Restrictions on the flow of data across borders ''provide no security benefits
but will create barriers to Chinese as well as foreign companies operating in
industries where data needs to be shared internationally,'' James Zimmerman,
chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in China, wrote in an emailed
statement.

He added that by creating such restrictions, China risked isolating itself
technologically from the rest of the world.

But in many ways, the regulations are not likely to have a major impact on much
about how business is done. Most of the rules are already in effect, but not
codified. Other parts are vague enough that the government will determine their
meaning on the fly.

The law, however, is an important statement from Beijing on how the internet
should be run: with tighter controls over companies and better tracking of
individual citizens.

Calling it a ''basic law,'' Chen Jihong, a partner at the Zhong Lun law firm in
Beijing, said the rules were set up to deal with the growing number of legal
issues regarding the Chinese internet and to seek to strike a balance between
privacy and security.

''The law only stipulates principles; it would take follow-up laws or
interpretations to specify the standards,'' he said.

Human Rights Watch said on Monday that it was concerned about several aspects of
the law, including that it calls for real-name registration for users of Chinese
instant messaging services.

''The already heavily censored internet in China needs more freedom, not less,''
the group's China director, Sophie Richardson, wrote in a statement. ''Despite
widespread international concern from corporations and rights advocates for more
than a year, Chinese authorities pressed ahead with this restrictive law without
making meaningful changes.''

The final law did soften a few elements. In particular, a second draft of the
law said foreign businesses did not need to keep all of their data inside China
-- just important business data collected within China or about Chinese
consumers.

For years the government has been working to ensure that people's real names are
linked to their online activities. Beijing has also long restricted many types
of online content, from pornography to political discussion.

Foreign companies have at times dealt with the controls detailed in the new law.
For example, during the past two years, American tech companies have had
products subjected to government security reviews that target encryption and
data storage. Beijing also distributed a pledge to American companies last year
asking them to vow to respect Chinese national security and to store data within
the country.

The law is also part of a broader set of policy steps to streamline regulation
of the internet. Analysts say the regulations seem to indicate that the
Cyberspace Administration of China, a relatively new regulatory body created
during President Xi Jinping's tenure, ultimately is in charge of setting the
agenda.

Last year China passed a national security law that called for technology that
supports crucial sectors of the economy and government to be ''secure and
controllable.'' Industry groups say that language means companies can be forced
to allow third-party access to their networks, provide encryption keys or hand
over source code.

After the state news media announced the law's passage, comments on Chinese news
and social media sites were largely censored.

On one news app run by the internet company Tencent, some users applauded the
law as a way for China to crack down on internet fraudsters and the less savory
parts of the web. Others wondered what the cost of that security would be.

''I hope this won't be a law that does more to limit freedom of speech,'' wrote
one user under the screen name Leisa Wenzhou.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/08/business/international/china-cyber
-security-regulations.html

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A conference on internet security in Beijing in August. The new
rules seek to better define how the internet is managed inside China.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY NG HAN GUAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 9, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Transgender Playwrights: 'We Should Get to Tell Our Own Stories First'

BYLINE: ALEXIS SOLOSKI

SECTION: THEATER

LENGTH: 1728 words



HIGHLIGHT: The playwrights MJ Kaufman, Basil Kreimendahl and Jess Barbagallo
discuss attitudes toward transgender artists, and their own recent works.


"I would love to see more trans stories by trans people in every theater," the
playwright MJ Kaufman said. "That'd be great."

Kaufman, a transgender writer who foregoes honorifics like Mr. or Ms., just
might get that chance. The playwright uttered that wish while sitting in an
atrium across the street from Lincoln Center on a recent weekday morning,
drinking coffee and noshing on a blueberry pastry. Also present for a discussion
of gender and performance were Basil Kreimendahl and Jess Barbagallo, two other
transgender playwrights.

Mr. Barbagallo's "My Old Man (And Other Stories)," which Time Out called "rich
-- in swagger, invention, mischief and heat," recently finished a run at Dixon
Place. Kaufman's "Sagittarius Ponderosa," produced by the National Asian
American Theater Company, continues at 3LD Art & Technology Center until Nov.
19. "Orange Julius," produced by Rattlestick Playwrights Theater and Page 73,
will open in January. It will star Mr. Barbagallo as Nut, the transgender child
of a Vietnam veteran.

They all knew one another from new-play development circles. (As Kaufman said to
Mr. Barbagallo, who is also a performer, "I tried to get you to be in three
readings, but you were always busy!") And they are part of a larger community of
transgender and gender-fluid theater artists, an ever-growing group that
includes Taylor Mac ("Hir"); Sylvan Oswald ("Sex Play," the web series
"Outtakes"); Olivia Dufault ("Year of the Rooster"); and writer-performers like
Becca Blackwell, Shakina Nayfack and Justin Vivian Bond.

These three writers have a lot in common. All are in their 30s, all wear their
hair long on top and short on the sides, all are interested in questions of
gender and sexuality while trusting that their writing ventures beyond those
concerns. And all were careful to emphasize that as white transmasculine
writers, they did not presume to speak for all transgender artists.

But they work in different styles -- Kreimendahl's is visceral, Kaufman's
meditative, Mr. Barbagallo's impish. And they have markedly different feelings
toward the professional theater and its attitudes toward transgender artists.
Kaufman described it as "really, really, really not trans friendly right now."
Kreimendahl viewed it, despite the occasional pronoun and bathroom confusion, as
a more welcoming place, "very willing to learn and grow, as I am growing into
myself." These are edited excerpts from the conversation.

Can you tell me something about your recent plays?

JESS BARBAGALLO It's structured like a collection of short stories. The activity
circulates around this guy named Barry and a neighbor who lives in the same
apartment complex. It's pretty unwieldy.

MJ KAUFMAN Mine is about a transmasculine person. His family thinks of him as
Angela. But to himself and to his friends, he's mostly Archer. I won't spoil it,
but yes, he has to negotiate these two different gender spaces and also a family
transition.

BASIL KREIMENDAHL "Orange Julius" is about the relationship between a
transmasculine child and their father. I knew I wanted to write about Agent
Orange and the stories of children of Vietnam vets, about how Vietnam affects
them.

When did you become interested in playwriting?

BARBAGALLO I've been writing since I was in high school. I was surprised to get
into a conservatory acting program. I didn't think I was a very good actor.
Scene study did leave me a little cold. I graduated from school and then after I
was out for a year, I was like, I can't handle my student loans. I'm going to go
back to college to become a teacher and I'll study playwriting.

KREIMENDAHL Like Jess, I always wrote growing up. I wanted to write films. My
family, we never went to the theater. I was at a community college in Florida
and I took a theater class and a film class. In film class, we just talked about
directors. In the theater class, we talked about the playwrights. I was like,
I'm doing the wrong thing.

KAUFMAN I always was into theater and writing. I wrote my first play in a high
school drama class. And then I tried to do a lot of other things. I graduated
from college and was doing all kinds of weird jobs and I was like, I think I
want to be a playwright.

BARBAGALLO What weird jobs?

KAUFMAN I was a Spanish teacher and a nanny and a barista.

KREIMENDAHL I did construction, remodeling.

BARBAGALLO I was a bartender, I taught school. I work at a magazine now, "Us
Weekly." I'm a researcher.

What were your early plays about?

KREIMENDAHL A kid who had a webcam show and who was cyber-bullied and who killed
himself live on the webcam. It was a dark comedy.

BARBAGALLO I was doing a really haphazard Marie Kondo of my apartment and I
found a play I wrote when I was 16 or 17. The tone is like a skewed sitcom, like
Edward Albee if he wrote plays when he was three.

KAUFMAN "Shatter" was about a mad scientist who made a computer program to put
together every combination of sounds and notes in the world so that no one could
ever write new music again.

And when did your birth gender start to feel uncomfortable?

BARBAGALLO From puberty. But I had no way to talk about it. I used to hide
myself in lots of layers of clothing. And then when I was in college, I had the
classic hair-cutting moment. All of a sudden my teachers were more interested in
me. I started getting cast in stuff. I started dating a lot more.

KAUFMAN I definitely took a really, really long time to choose trans as a label.
It was after multiple years of trying out a different pronoun with friends that
I was like, I think I could demand that the world respect me this way. That was
when I was in grad school. I had a different name then. I started introducing
myself as MJ.

BARBAGALLO Only my mother still calls me by my birth name. My parents knew that
I had top surgery, but we don't put the specific language on it.

KREIMENDAHL I've been Basil for 11 years. I guess because my birth name is so
feminine it never felt right. My mom still calls me it. I'm not really out to my
parents either. It's not a topic of conversation. But I think that's going to
happen soon. I'm about to get married. We don't want this confusion when I'm the
groom.

Are you out to your parents, MJ?

KAUFMAN My moms are lesbian, so they definitely have a reference point when I
came out to them. They are very supportive in their own way.

BARBAGALLO You're so lucky.

Do you have concerns about being pigeonholed as a trans playwright?

BARBAGALLO I don't like being tokenized or feeling that other parts of my person
are overshadowed. Sometimes when people are asking me to speak on a panel or to
come lecture, I'm like, come see my play. Come see the art.

KAUFMAN That happens to me a lot, too. They'll see my work and the only thing
they'll have to say is, "It's so exciting you're writing a trans story. It's so
great to see queer and trans characters." Can you say one thing about craft?

KREIMENDAHL I hope I'm seen as a playwright. I move in the world that way. I
don't feel like Rattlestick is doing "Orange Julius" because I'm trans. In San
Francisco, they did market my play "Sidewinders" as very queer and the play was
not about that. It was about being human. So people came expecting to see a
trans narrative and then were disappointed.

How strong are the autobiographical elements in what you write?

KREIMENDAHL "Orange Julius" is the most personal play I've ever written.

BARBAGALLO In early plays I wrote I was the protagonist, plays about a screwed
up 20-something. But as the years have gone on, I am so much less interesting to
myself.

KAUFMAN There's some of myself in all of my work. I have noticed recently that I
have a number of plays where there's a transmasculine person with a dead father.

None of you has written a traditional trans coming-out narrative. Do those
stories interest you?

KREIMENDAHL Nooo. I've never been interested in the coming-out narrative at all.
There's so much more to write about.

KAUFMAN I do think that one of the reasons I resisted the trans label for so
long was the only way I had encountered it was the story of someone who is born
in the wrong body and then they get surgery and they take hormones and they
transition and then they've found themselves. That's not true for me and for
most of the trans people I know.

You've all written gender nonconforming characters. Is it important to you that
gender nonconforming actors play those roles?

BARBAGALLO Trans roles, roles specifically for trans people, should be played by
trans actors. That's pretty simple.

KAUFMAN Definitely. Though I am trying to push the conversation away from this
authenticity bias of who can do the role most realistically and toward a labor
justice question of who's getting cast and who's not. Trans actors have a harder
time getting cast even in trans roles and this shouldn't be true.

KREIMENDAHL We have enough actors out there. It's worth reaching out, outside
the normal ways of casting.

BARBAGALLO I've been asked to come in and read for trans women. I think that
might be just about the worst casting choice you could make. There are really
gifted performers working who have not necessarily been through conservatory
training who could strengthen the fabric of our theater if you reached out to
them.

How do you feel about transgender narratives written by people who aren't
transgender?

BARBAGALLO Ooh! It's hot right now!

KREIMENDAHL There's something that just goes, that's not really my story, that's
a straight version of my story.

KAUFMAN I don't see very many cis writers writing about trans experience
responsibly. I would love to see that. There's an unfortunate compounding
problem that theaters would rather produce work about us, not by us right now.
We should get to tell our own stories first.

PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left, the playwrights MJ Kaufman, Basil Kreimendahl
and Jess Barbagallo, at Lincoln Center; Bex Kwan, left, and Mia Katigbak, in
Kaufman's "Sagittarius Ponderosa," at 3LD Art & Technology Center; Sara Moore,
left, and DavEnd in Kreimendahl's "Sidewinders"; and Gabriella Rhodeen, left,
and Drae Campbell in Mr. Barbagallo's "My Old Man (And Other Stories)," at Dixon
Place. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IKE EDEANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; WILLIAM P. STEELE;
LAURA MASON; CAITLIN OCHS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Review: In 'Sagittarius Ponderosa,' New Self Confronts Old
     ·    Collective Releases its Annual List of Plays by Female and Transgender
          Writers


LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 11, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

On Staten Island, Pantsuit Nation Met Its Match;
Big City

BYLINE: GINIA BELLAFANTE

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1043 words



HIGHLIGHT: Excitement at Donald J. Trump's victory was confined not merely to
the distant, vast American territory of the Waffle House.


For a certain kind of woman in Manhattan or Brooklyn, or Santa Monica or
Minneapolis, for that matter, Tuesday began with a bright spirit, a pantsuit - a
popular show of sartorial support for Hillary Clinton - and a promise to
children brought into voting booths that the next morning they would wake up in
a country that had elected its first female president.

That this sort of woman didn't know anyone with a fondness for Donald J. Trump,
or at any rate couldn't fathom how any woman, in particular, could develop such
a thing, only served to affirm the conclusions of big data that had put Mrs.
Clinton ahead.

In December 1972, the film critic Pauline Kael, famously acknowledging her
urbane parochialism, said that in her corner of the world she knew only one
person who had voted for Richard M. Nixon. In the days leading up to this
presidential election, many women in New York City would not have been able to
name a single person they had ever met - not at Eataly or Barneys or Naral
fund-raisers - who was voting for Mr. Trump, the Republican nominee, or even
considering it.

But excitement over Mr. Trump's election was confined not merely to the distant,
vast American territory of the Waffle House. In New York State's 62nd Assembly
District on Staten Island, Mr. Trump defeated Mrs. Clinton, his Democratic
counterpart, by a rate of three to one. According to preliminary exit poll data
from CNN, Mr. Trump held a considerable lead over Mrs. Clinton among white women
nationally. In Tottenville, a prosperous area on the southern tip of Staten
Island, nearly every white woman I approached on Wednesday was eager to tell me
how thrilled she was about his victory.

Janene Lombardo, a 37-year-old divorced single mother about to remarry, said she
had never been political. And in fact, before this election, she had not been
registered to vote. Like nearly everyone I spoke to in Tottenville, she took
issue with the Affordable Care Act, in her case, having listened to the
criticisms of her father, a Democrat and a substance-abuse counselor on
addiction-plagued Staten Island. Ms. Lombardo works two jobs, one in a women's
clothing store called Bella Chic, where I met her wearing a Trump T-shirt.

"In the beginning I thought it was just funny," she said of Mr. Trump's
candidacy. "But as crazy as he sounded, I believed in what he was saying." His
treatment of women didn't bother her, she said, adding that the accusations of
assault and harassment leveled against him by other women were simply
expressions of opportunism by women seeking the spotlight.

"Even Clinton," Ms. Lombardo said referring to former President Bill Clinton,
"when they made a big deal about his affairs, I didn't care. Find me one person
who has never said or thought or done anything off-color."

At a nearby shop also with the word Bella in it - this one called Lu Bella
Boutique - the owner, Kim Capone, said that on election night she got down on
her knees with her 4-month-old Yorkie and prayed for a Trump victory, in part
because he is "one of us." When a man in the store challenged her assertion,
claiming that as a billionaire Mr. Trump was certainly not "one of us," Ms.
Capone countered that he wasn't a politician, and that that went a long way.

I asked her if she bought into the narrative that the very wealthy were the
enemy. No, Ms. Capone said: "ISIS is the enemy."

Her colleague Nicole Appugliese said fireworks had erupted near where she lives
in the Annadale section of Staten Island at 2:40 a.m. on Wednesday, after Mrs.
Clinton conceded. She argued for Mr. Trump's essential goodness. More than once,
she said: "He's 70 years old. He doesn't have to do this. He is doing this
because he wants to help us."

Many of the women I spoke to conformed to none of the clichés of the Trump
voter; they held graduate degrees and consumed news from multiple sources
affiliated with varying points of view. Sandra Pallante, a lawyer and compliance
officer at Wolfe Research, said she was undecided until the last minute, but
ultimately could not get past the issues involving Mrs. Clinton's private email
server. It was hard for her to imagine breaching cyber security in her own work,
she said, and winding up with a promotion.

Still, Ms. Pallante felt that many in her corner of the world were casting
reflexive votes against Mrs. Clinton. "People here will use buzzwords," she
said. "They will say 'Benghazi,' but they don't really know what that is."

One of the fiercest Clinton antagonists I met in Tottenville was Margaret
Bonilla, who was eating lunch with a group of women, all of whom had worked as
middle-school teachers on Staten Island and all of them extremely knowledgeable
and informed. They get together once a month, and had made a pact not to talk
about the election all year because there were conflicting opinions among them.
But when I walked over to their table to ask what they thought of the outcome,
they began a heated debate. One told me that she listened to Chuck Todd of "Meet
the Press" as much as she listened to Fox News, and that as a transplant to New
Jersey she had been a supporter of Senator Cory A. Booker, a Democrat.

Ms. Bonilla had been an activist in the 1960s, part of the takeover of the
Columbia University campus, she said. Her animosity toward Mrs. Clinton began in
the 1990s when she famously claimed there was a vast right-wing conspiracy
against her and her husband. Ms. Bonilla thought that was misguided and
horrible. During this campaign, she said, she was enraged by Mr. Clinton's
encounter on a tarmac with Loretta E. Lynch, the attorney general, and equally
undone by Donna Brazile's feeding the Clinton campaign questions from CNN.

"Every day of this election I hated Trump," Ms. Bonilla said. "But I hated
Hillary more."

EMAIL: bigcity@nytimes.com

PHOTO: Janene Lombardo, 37, said that before this election, she had not even
been registered to vote. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ÁNGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB8)

Related Articles


     ·    New Yorkers Baffled and Anxious After Trump, One of Their Own,
          Clinches Election
     ·    'I Had a Scary Dream About Donald Trump': Muslim Parents Face a Tense
          Election
     ·    Pantsuit Nation, a 'Secret' Facebook Hub, Celebrates Clinton
     ·    Highlights of Hillary Clinton's Concession Speech and President
          Obama's Remarks


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 12, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

The Danger of Going Soft on Russia;
Editorial

BYLINE: THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: OPINION; sunday

LENGTH: 935 words



HIGHLIGHT: Will Donald Trump, who has been Vladimir Putin's apologist, change
his tune in the White House?


Among the first world leaders tocongratulate President-elect Donald Trump was
Vladimir Putin. And why shouldn't he?

Just when relations between Russia and the West are at their most precarious
point since the Cold War, Mr. Trump has been Russia's defender and the
beneficiary of Moscow's efforts to influence the presidential campaign. At times
he has seemed almost intoxicated by the Russian president, praising Mr. Putin's
firmness and insisting that the two could resolve any differences if they met.
Meanwhile, he has shown little concern that Russia poses a major strategic
challenge.

Few experts believe that Russia wants war with the West, but many worry that Mr.
Putin's aggressive behavior as he tries to revive Russian greatness (thus
masking problems at home) could result in the kind of dangerous miscalculations
that often lead to armed conflict.

Russia's hacking of the Democratic National Committee and the Clinton campaign
to interfere in the election was brazen. Even worse were actions that threatened
human life and global stability, like Mr. Putin's airstrikes against civilians
in Syria, his positioning of nuclear-capable weaponry near Poland and the Baltic
States, his annexation of Crimea and the war he waged in eastern Ukraine. He
violated the 1987 Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty by producing a
ground-launched cruise missile and canceled a 16-year-old accord on reducing
stockpiles of weapons-grade plutonium.

Despite this behavior, despite the obvious need for the next president to be
alert to Mr. Putin's mischief and to be willing to resist it, Mr. Trump has so
far been Mr. Putin's apologist.

Mr. Trump has dismissed the intelligence community's finding that Russia was
behind the hacking, displaying a disrespect for the facts and for the security
institutions that compile them. On Thursday, a senior Russian official admitted
that the Kremlin had been in contactwith Trump allies during the campaign. While
it's not unusual for presidential campaigns to be in touch with foreign leaders,
the situation raises heightened concerns given the hacking and the connections
between a former senior Trump campaign official and the pro-Russia former
president of Ukraine.

Since Mr. Trump has refused to criticize the Kremlin, it's important that Mr.
Obama figure out, before he leaves office, how to punish Russia for the hacking
in a way that demonstrates Washington's determination to resist cyberattacks
without further escalating the conflict. Getting the balance right will not be
easy. Mr. Obama should also keep talking with Russia on mutually acceptable
cyber-deterrence guidelines that set rules for regulating, defending against and
deterring malicious intrusions in cyberspace.

The deteriorating relationship between Moscow and Washington is a long way from
what was envisioned when the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991 and there were high
hopes that Russia would become a democracy integrated with the West. In 2009,
Mr. Obama authorized Hillary Clinton, his first secretary of state, to "reset"
relations, aiming to foster cooperation.

The two sides worked together on an arms control treaty and the Iran nuclear
deal, but on the whole the reset failed, largely because of Mr. Putin. Restoring
Russia to power and to a central role in world affairs turned out to be more
important to Mr. Putin, and the Russians, than peaceful or profitable ties with
the West. His foreign policy is a fairly consistent continuation of Soviet
policy - preventing Western encirclement by moving into Ukraine; fighting proxy
battles to support Russian interests, as in Syria; and challenging American
power wherever possible.

Mr. Obama was slow to recognize Mr. Putin's revanchist mission, as were other
Western leaders. Now that the threat is obvious, America and its allies cannot
afford for Mr. Trump to make the same mistake. What's needed is a pragmatic
review of American-Russian relations that includes, at a minimum, a
reaffirmation of America's commitment to NATO, which Mr. Trump disparaged during
the campaign, and to European democracy. Mr. Putin is working to undermine both.

Achieving the right balance between firmness and conciliation has never been an
easy task for the United States or its Western allies. The alliance has largely
been unified in supporting sanctions on Russia for its actions in Ukraine and in
agreeing to deploy military battalions of 800 to 1,200 multinational troops in
Poland, in Lithuania, in Estonia and in Latvia, in addition to a brigade of four
more battalions to be based in Romania and Bulgaria. Additional moves may be
still be required.

Even so, the relationship between the United States and Russia cannot be allowed
to slip back into a poisonous Cold War-like rivalry. The Kremlin's receptivity
to working with Mr. Trump could be exploited to serve a useful purpose. Maybe
Mr. Trump will have enough influence with Mr. Putin to persuade him to adhere to
arms control agreements and come back into compliance with those Russia has
breached.

In many ways, Mr. Putin appears strong, but he is playing a weak hand, as
Russia's oil-dependent economy shrinks, its population ages and the country
remains mired in costly military operations in Syria and Ukraine. He needs to
have no doubt that the United States and its allies will defend their principles
and values even as they remain open to cooperation when the interests of the two
sides overlap. That is the core of Mr. Trump's challenge.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for theOpinion Today newsletter.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY HANNA BARCZYK)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 13, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

'Westworld' Reveals a Big Twist, but Little Heart;
Critic's Notebook

BYLINE: JAMES PONIEWOZIK

SECTION: ARTS; television

LENGTH: 1182 words



HIGHLIGHT: In the seventh episode, "Trompe L'Oeil," a big twist reveals another
piece of its narrative, yet the show's characters remain mysteries.


Well? Did you call it?

"Trompe L'Oeil," the seventh episode of HBO's "Westworld," revealed a twist that
some sharp viewers had guessed almost from the show's beginning. (This is the
point at which I ask the spoiler-averse to hop aboard the departing train from
Sweetwater Station.) Bernard Lowe (Jeffrey Wright), the head programmer for an
Old West theme park populated with lifelike robots, is -- to his own surprise --
himself a robot.

If you, like me, did not call it, don't worry; there are plenty of other
theories floating out there. That the park's supposedly deceased co-founder
Arnold is still around, in human or cyber form. That the mysterious Man in Black
(Ed Harris) is actually the park visitor William (Jimmi Simpson), 30 years
later. That the park's mastermind, Dr. Robert Ford (Anthony Hopkins), is also a
robot.

Maybe everyone else is a robot, too. Maybe you are! (How would you know? Mind.
Blown.)

At this point, in fact, it's beginning to feel like the puzzles have gained
sentience, Skynet-style, and killed off every other aspect of "Westworld." This
makes for a series that is cool, awesome, amazing -- but not necessarily good.

Don't get me wrong: I have spent precious weeks of my limited time on Earth
theorizing about "Twin Peaks," "The X-Files" and "Lost" over the years. It's a
time-honored way of engaging with stories, from detective fiction to the
fake-out narratives of marquee cable series like "Mr. Robot," "American Horror
Story" and "True Detective."

"Westworld" is, in one sense, the genre's lab-engineered supermachine. But in
serial television, this kind of puzzle fiction works best when it's told through
people you come to know and care about.

To the extent the characters in "Westworld" are compelling, on the other hand,
it's for how little you know them, not how well you do. To a person (or thing),
they're enigmas, and the show invites you to solve them.

So many matters that character drama usually establishes first -- personality,
motive -- "Westworld" withholds. The Man in Black, for instance: Is he the
sadistic villain that he first seems to be, or just a dedicated gamer trying to
defeat the park's boss level by finding a hidden maze? Is Ford an artist or a
megalomaniac?

The robots hosts are more interesting than the circuitboard-flat human staffers.
But it's arguable whether they can be said to be "characters" at all in the
usual sense, given that they can have their memories overwritten to play
entirely different roles. Or rather, maybe they are literally characters --
fictional constructs in human shells.

Recent episodes address this directly, as Maeve Millay (Thandie Newton) becomes
aware of her artificial nature and blackmails her handlers into juicing her
intelligence and other stats. She's revising her own character -- but her drive
to do that itself has to come from her psyche. Is that drive some innate,
inalienable "her," as opposed to a factory setting? If so, where does it come
from?

This is all fascinating, but it's a clinical fascination -- a constant prompt,
in the show's words, to "question the nature of your reality." Everyone in the
park is potentially, to borrow a recurring image, a player piano; any situation
might be trompe l'oeil. When you don't know who's real -- or what "real" is --
it's hard to know who to really care about.

This makes "Westworld" especially dependent on its mysteries for engagement. And
boy, are people engaged. There are dozens of podcasts devoted to parsing it.
(The show suggests the park itself has a fan community -- one character is
excited to discover an "Easter egg" that he's heard about within a narrative.)

But this also means that, if you and the internet hive-mind crack a certain
upcoming twist, there's little reason to invest in the story other than to see
if you were right.

This kind of storytelling is a trademark of Jonathan Nolan, who created the
series with his wife, Lisa Joy, and is known for the M. C. Escher narratives he
devised, with his brother Christopher Nolan, for the films "Memento" and
"Interstellar."

Twist narratives work differently in series television. You see a movie in a
dark room unconnected to the outside world (assuming you obeyed the reminder to
switch off your cellphone). The story unfolds all at once. If you guess the
solution early, you have a short time to wait to be satisfied or disappointed.

In weekly serial TV, on the other hand, you have to sit with it for weeks. And
while you wait, it raises the question: What else am I here for? What else do I
care about?

This is a general risk of the twist-TV genre. Both seasons of the audacious "Mr.
Robot" built up to big psych-out revelations based on the unreliable perceptions
of Elliot Alderson (Rami Malek). In Season 1, we learned that Mr. Robot
(Christian Slater), the companion who goaded Elliot into a computer-hacking
scheme, was a hallucination based on Elliot's father. In the middle of Season 2,
we learned that Elliot was in jail and that many of the season's events had been
fantasy.

In both cases, fans "Encyclopedia Brown"-ed the twists well in advance -- the
creator, Sam Esmail, has said he expected them to. And there are other reasons
to watch the series, like its bravura direction and critiques of consumerism.

But there's a trade-off: Because so much of the series is filtered through an
unreliable narrator, for significant stretches it is, in a way, a story with
only one character -- we're not seeing other characters so much as Elliot's
perspective of them. That can make this series, too, easier to admire than to
love.

Looming behind this genre is "Lost," the televisual Rubik's Cube that
popularized the idea that a story requires not just an ending but an answer.
("Westworld" is co-executive produced by the "Lost" co-creator J. J. Abrams.)
But "Lost," even as it introduced smoke monsters and tropical polar bears, also
developed an ensemble of characters with distinctive voices and rich
personalities.

If "Westworld" is the "Lost" approach taken to a puzzle-centric extreme, another
"Lost" co-creator, Damon Lindelof, went the other way with HBO's "The
Leftovers," based on a novel by Tom Perrotta.

Mr. Lindelof began that series, too, with an unexplained phenomenon -- the
rapture-like disappearance of 2 percent of humanity. But this time he promised
not to explain it, choosing instead to delve into the lives of those left behind
and, in the words of the series's Season 2 theme, "Let the mystery be."

"Westworld," on the other hand, lets nothing be -- it invites you to worry every
nugget like a loose tooth. The series is built to engage fans like William, who
describes visiting the park as waking up inside a story. "I want to find out
what it all means," he says.

This is a story about stories, a puzzle about puzzles, a game about games,
gamers and game pieces. That's both the pleasure and the limitation of
"Westworld." It beckons you into a vast, ornate maze and asks you to trust that
you'll find something human inside, eventually, like the prize at the end.

PHOTO: Jeffrey Wright and Sidse Babett Knudsen in "Westworld." (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JOHN P. JOHNSON/HBO) (C6)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 13, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pantsuit Nation Meets Its Match

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 976 words


For a certain kind of woman in Manhattan or Brooklyn, or Santa Monica or
Minneapolis, for that matter, Tuesday began with a bright spirit, a pantsuit --
a popular show of sartorial support for Hillary Clinton -- and a promise to
children brought into voting booths that the next morning they would wake up in
a country that had elected its first female president.

That this sort of woman didn't know anyone with a fondness for Donald J. Trump,
or at any rate couldn't fathom how any woman, in particular, could develop such
a thing, only served to affirm the conclusions of big data that had put Mrs.
Clinton ahead.

In December 1972, the film critic Pauline Kael, famously acknowledging her
urbane parochialism, said that in her corner of the world she knew only one
person who had voted for Richard M. Nixon. In the days leading up to this
presidential election, many women in New York City would not have been able to
name a single person they had ever met -- not at Eataly or Barneys or Naral
fund-raisers -- who was voting for Mr. Trump, the Republican nominee, or even
considering it.

But excitement over Mr. Trump's election was confined not merely to the distant,
vast American territory of the Waffle House. In New York State's 62nd Assembly
District on Staten Island, Mr. Trump defeated Mrs. Clinton, his Democratic
counterpart, by a rate of three to one. According to preliminary exit poll data
from CNN, Mr. Trump held a considerable lead over Mrs. Clinton among white women
nationally. In Tottenville, a prosperous area on the southern tip of Staten
Island, nearly every white woman I approached on Wednesday was eager to tell me
how thrilled she was about his victory.

Janene Lombardo, a 37-year-old divorced single mother about to remarry, said she
had never been political. And in fact, before this election, she had not been
registered to vote. Like nearly everyone I spoke to in Tottenville, she took
issue with the Affordable Care Act, in her case, having listened to the
criticisms of her father, a Democrat and a substance-abuse counselor on
addiction-plagued Staten Island. Ms. Lombardo works two jobs, one in a women's
clothing store called Bella Chic, where I met her wearing a Trump T-shirt.

''In the beginning I thought it was just funny,'' she said of Mr. Trump's
candidacy. ''But as crazy as he sounded, I believed in what he was saying.'' His
treatment of women didn't bother her, she said, adding that the accusations of
assault and harassment leveled against him by other women were simply
expressions of opportunism by women seeking the spotlight.

''Even Clinton,'' Ms. Lombardo said referring to former President Bill Clinton,
''when they made a big deal about his affairs, I didn't care. Find me one person
who has never said or thought or done anything off-color.''

At a nearby shop also with the word Bella in it -- this one called Lu Bella
Boutique -- the owner, Kim Capone, said that on election night she got down on
her knees with her 4-month-old Yorkie and prayed for a Trump victory, in part
because he is ''one of us.'' When a man in the store challenged her assertion,
claiming that as a billionaire Mr. Trump was certainly not ''one of us,'' Ms.
Capone countered that he wasn't a politician, and that that went a long way.

I asked her if she bought into the narrative that the very wealthy were the
enemy. No, Ms. Capone said: ''ISIS is the enemy.''

Her colleague Nicole Appugliese said fireworks had erupted near where she lives
in the Annadale section of Staten Island at 2:40 a.m. on Wednesday, after Mrs.
Clinton conceded. She argued for Mr. Trump's essential goodness. More than once,
she said: ''He's 70 years old. He doesn't have to do this. He is doing this
because he wants to help us.''

Many of the women I spoke to conformed to none of the clichés of the Trump
voter; they held graduate degrees and consumed news from multiple sources
affiliated with varying points of view. Sandra Pallante, a lawyer and compliance
officer at Wolfe Research, said she was undecided until the last minute, but
ultimately could not get past the issues involving Mrs. Clinton's private email
server. It was hard for her to imagine breaching cyber security in her own work,
she said, and winding up with a promotion.

Still, Ms. Pallante felt that many in her corner of the world were casting
reflexive votes against Mrs. Clinton. ''People here will use buzzwords,'' she
said. ''They will say 'Benghazi,' but they don't really know what that is.''

One of the fiercest Clinton antagonists I met in Tottenville was Margaret
Bonilla, who was eating lunch with a group of women, all of whom had worked as
middle-school teachers on Staten Island and all of them extremely knowledgeable
and informed. They get together once a month, and had made a pact not to talk
about the election all year because there were conflicting opinions among them.
But when I walked over to their table to ask what they thought of the outcome,
they began a heated debate. One told me that she listened to Chuck Todd of
''Meet the Press'' as much as she listened to Fox News, and that as a transplant
to New Jersey she had been a supporter of Senator Cory A. Booker, a Democrat.

Ms. Bonilla had been an activist in the 1960s, part of the takeover of the
Columbia University campus, she said. Her animosity toward Mrs. Clinton began in
the 1990s when she famously claimed there was a vast right-wing conspiracy
against her and her husband. Ms. Bonilla thought that was misguided and
horrible. During this campaign, she said, she was enraged by Mr. Clinton's
encounter on a tarmac with Loretta E. Lynch, the attorney general, and equally
undone by Donna Brazile's feeding the Clinton campaign questions from CNN.

''Every day of this election I hated Trump,'' Ms. Bonilla said. ''But I hated
Hillary more.''

EMAIL: bigcity@nytimes.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/13/nyregion/on-staten-island-pantsuit-nation-met-
its-match.html

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Janene Lombardo, 37, said that before this election, she had not
even been registered to vote. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ÁNGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(MB8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 13, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Danger of Going Soft on Russia

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 935 words


Among the first world leaders to congratulate President-elect Donald Trump was
Vladimir Putin. And why shouldn't he?

Just when relations between Russia and the West are at their most precarious
point since the Cold War, Mr. Trump has been Russia's defender and the
beneficiary of Moscow's efforts to influence the presidential campaign. At times
he has seemed almost intoxicated by the Russian president, praising Mr. Putin's
firmness and insisting that the two could resolve any differences if they met.
Meanwhile, he has shown little concern that Russia poses a major strategic
challenge.

Few experts believe that Russia wants war with the West, but many worry that Mr.
Putin's aggressive behavior as he tries to revive Russian greatness (thus
masking problems at home) could result in the kind of dangerous miscalculations
that often lead to armed conflict.

Russia's hacking of the Democratic National Committee and the Clinton campaign
to interfere in the election was brazen. Even worse were actions that threatened
human life and global stability, like Mr. Putin's airstrikes against civilians
in Syria, his positioning of nuclear-capable weaponry near Poland and the Baltic
States, his annexation of Crimea and the war he waged in eastern Ukraine. He
violated the 1987 Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty by producing a
ground-launched cruise missile and canceled a 16-year-old accord on reducing
stockpiles of weapons-grade plutonium.

Despite this behavior, despite the obvious need for the next president to be
alert to Mr. Putin's mischief and to be willing to resist it, Mr. Trump has so
far been Mr. Putin's apologist.

Mr. Trump has dismissed the intelligence community's finding that Russia was
behind the hacking, displaying a disrespect for the facts and for the security
institutions that compile them. On Thursday, a senior Russian official admitted
that the Kremlin had been in contact with Trump allies during the campaign.
While it's not unusual for presidential campaigns to be in touch with foreign
leaders, the situation raises heightened concerns given the hacking and the
connections between a former senior Trump campaign official and the pro-Russia
former president of Ukraine.

Since Mr. Trump has refused to criticize the Kremlin, it's important that Mr.
Obama figure out, before he leaves office, how to punish Russia for the hacking
in a way that demonstrates Washington's determination to resist cyberattacks
without further escalating the conflict. Getting the balance right will not be
easy. Mr. Obama should also keep talking with Russia on mutually acceptable
cyber-deterrence guidelines that set rules for regulating, defending against and
deterring malicious intrusions in cyberspace.

The deteriorating relationship between Moscow and Washington is a long way from
what was envisioned when the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991 and there were high
hopes that Russia would become a democracy integrated with the West. In 2009,
Mr. Obama authorized Hillary Clinton, his first secretary of state, to ''reset''
relations, aiming to foster cooperation.

The two sides worked together on an arms control treaty and the Iran nuclear
deal, but on the whole the reset failed, largely because of Mr. Putin. Restoring
Russia to power and to a central role in world affairs turned out to be more
important to Mr. Putin, and the Russians, than peaceful or profitable ties with
the West. His foreign policy is a fairly consistent continuation of Soviet
policy -- preventing Western encirclement by moving into Ukraine; fighting proxy
battles to support Russian interests, as in Syria; and challenging American
power wherever possible.

Mr. Obama was slow to recognize Mr. Putin's revanchist mission, as were other
Western leaders. Now that the threat is obvious, America and its allies cannot
afford for Mr. Trump to make the same mistake. What's needed is a pragmatic
review of American-Russian relations that includes, at a minimum, a
reaffirmation of America's commitment to NATO, which Mr. Trump disparaged during
the campaign, and to European democracy. Mr. Putin is working to undermine both.

Achieving the right balance between firmness and conciliation has never been an
easy task for the United States or its Western allies. The alliance has largely
been unified in supporting sanctions on Russia for its actions in Ukraine and in
agreeing to deploy military battalions of 800 to 1,200 multinational troops in
Poland, in Lithuania, in Estonia and in Latvia, in addition to a brigade of four
more battalions to be based in Romania and Bulgaria. Additional moves may be
still be required.

Even so, the relationship between the United States and Russia cannot be allowed
to slip back into a poisonous Cold War-like rivalry. The Kremlin's receptivity
to working with Mr. Trump could be exploited to serve a useful purpose. Maybe
Mr. Trump will have enough influence with Mr. Putin to persuade him to adhere to
arms control agreements and come back into compliance with those Russia has
breached.

In many ways, Mr. Putin appears strong, but he is playing a weak hand, as
Russia's oil-dependent economy shrinks, its population ages and the country
remains mired in costly military operations in Syria and Ukraine. He needs to
have no doubt that the United States and its allies will defend their principles
and values even as they remain open to cooperation when the interests of the two
sides overlap. That is the core of Mr. Trump's challenge.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/13/opinion/sunday/the-danger-of-going-soft-on-rus
sia.html

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HANNA BARCZYK)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 13, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

'We Should Get to Tell Our Own Stories'

BYLINE: By ALEXIS SOLOSKI

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1639 words


''I would love to see more trans stories by trans people in every theater,'' the
playwright MJ Kaufman said. ''That'd be great.''

Kaufman, a transgender writer who foregoes honorifics like Mr. or Ms., just
might get that chance. The playwright uttered that wish while sitting in an
atrium across the street from Lincoln Center on a recent weekday morning,
drinking coffee and noshing on a blueberry pastry. Also present for a discussion
of gender and performance were Basil Kreimendahl and Jess Barbagallo, two other
transgender playwrights.

Mr. Barbagallo's ''My Old Man (And Other Stories),'' which Time Out called
''rich -- in swagger, invention, mischief and heat,'' recently finished a run at
Dixon Place. Kaufman's ''Sagittarius Ponderosa,'' produced by the National Asian
American Theater Company, continues at 3LD Art & Technology Center until Nov.
19. ''Orange Julius,'' produced by Rattlestick Playwrights Theater and Page 73,
will open in January. It will star Mr. Barbagallo as Nut, the transgender child
of a Vietnam veteran.

They all knew one another from new-play development circles. (As Kaufman said to
Mr. Barbagallo, who is also a performer, ''I tried to get you to be in three
readings, but you were always busy!'') And they are part of a larger community
of transgender and gender-fluid theater artists, an ever-growing group that
includes Taylor Mac (''Hir''); Sylvan Oswald (''Sex Play,'' the web series
''Outtakes''); Olivia Dufault (''Year of the Rooster''); and writer-performers
like Becca Blackwell, Shakina Nayfack and Justin Vivian Bond.

These three writers have a lot in common. All are in their 30s, all wear their
hair long on top and short on the sides, all are interested in questions of
gender and sexuality while trusting that their writing ventures beyond those
concerns. And all were careful to emphasize that as white transmasculine
writers, they did not presume to speak for all transgender artists.

But they work in different styles -- Kreimendahl's is visceral, Kaufman's
meditative, Mr. Barbagallo's impish. And they have markedly different feelings
toward the professional theater and its attitudes toward transgender artists.
Kaufman described it as ''really, really, really not trans friendly right now.''
Kreimendahl viewed it, despite the occasional pronoun and bathroom confusion, as
a more welcoming place, ''very willing to learn and grow, as I am growing into
myself.'' These are edited excerpts from the conversation.

Can you tell me something about your recent plays?

JESS BARBAGALLO It's structured like a collection of short stories. The activity
circulates around this guy named Barry and a neighbor who lives in the same
apartment complex. It's pretty unwieldy.

MJ KAUFMAN Mine is about a transmasculine person. His family thinks of him as
Angela. But to himself and to his friends, he's mostly Archer. I won't spoil it,
but yes, he has to negotiate these two different gender spaces and also a family
transition.

BASIL KREIMENDAHL ''Orange Julius'' is about the relationship between a
transmasculine child and their father. I knew I wanted to write about Agent
Orange and the stories of children of Vietnam vets, about how Vietnam affects
them.

When did you become interested in playwriting?

BARBAGALLO I've been writing since I was in high school. I was surprised to get
into a conservatory acting program. I didn't think I was a very good actor.
Scene study did leave me a little cold. I graduated from school and then after I
was out for a year, I was like, I can't handle my student loans. I'm going to go
back to college to become a teacher and I'll study playwriting.

KREIMENDAHL Like Jess, I always wrote growing up. I wanted to write films. My
family, we never went to the theater. I was at a community college in Florida
and I took a theater class and a film class. In film class, we just talked about
directors. In the theater class, we talked about the playwrights. I was like,
I'm doing the wrong thing.

KAUFMAN I always was into theater and writing. I wrote my first play in a high
school drama class. And then I tried to do a lot of other things. I graduated
from college and was doing all kinds of weird jobs and I was like, I think I
want to be a playwright.

BARBAGALLO What weird jobs?

KAUFMAN I was a Spanish teacher and a nanny and a barista.

KREIMENDAHL I did construction, remodeling.

BARBAGALLO I was a bartender, I taught school. I work at a magazine now, ''Us
Weekly.'' I'm a researcher.

What were your early plays about?

KREIMENDAHL A kid who had a webcam show and who was cyber-bullied and who killed
himself live on the webcam. It was a dark comedy.

BARBAGALLO I was doing a really haphazard Marie Kondo of my apartment and I
found a play I wrote when I was 16 or 17. The tone is like a skewed sitcom, like
Edward Albee if he wrote plays when he was three.

KAUFMAN ''Shatter'' was about a mad scientist who made a computer program to put
together every combination of sounds and notes in the world so that no one could
ever write new music again.

And when did your birth gender start to feel uncomfortable?

BARBAGALLO From puberty. But I had no way to talk about it. I used to hide
myself in lots of layers of clothing. And then when I was in college, I had the
classic hair-cutting moment. All of a sudden my teachers were more interested in
me. I started getting cast in stuff. I started dating a lot more.

KAUFMAN I definitely took a really, really long time to choose trans as a label.
It was after multiple years of trying out a different pronoun with friends that
I was like, I think I could demand that the world respect me this way. That was
when I was in grad school. I had a different name then. I started introducing
myself as MJ.

BARBAGALLO Only my mother still calls me by my birth name. My parents knew that
I had top surgery, but we don't put the specific language on it.

KREIMENDAHL I've been Basil for 11 years. I guess because my birth name is so
feminine it never felt right. My mom still calls me it. I'm not really out to my
parents either. It's not a topic of conversation. But I think that's going to
happen soon. I'm about to get married. We don't want this confusion when I'm the
groom.

Are you out to your parents, MJ?

KAUFMAN My moms are lesbian, so they definitely have a reference point when I
came out to them. They are very supportive in their own way.

BARBAGALLO You're so lucky.

Do you have concerns about being pigeonholed as a trans playwright?

BARBAGALLO I don't like being tokenized or feeling that other parts of my person
are overshadowed. Sometimes when people are asking me to speak on a panel or to
come lecture, I'm like, come see my play. Come see the art.

KAUFMAN That happens to me a lot, too. They'll see my work and the only thing
they'll have to say is, ''It's so exciting you're writing a trans story. It's so
great to see queer and trans characters.'' Can you say one thing about craft?

KREIMENDAHL I hope I'm seen as a playwright. I move in the world that way. I
don't feel like Rattlestick is doing ''Orange Julius'' because I'm trans. In San
Francisco, they did market my play ''Sidewinders'' as very queer and the play
was not about that. It was about being human. So people came expecting to see a
trans narrative and then were disappointed.

How strong are the autobiographical elements in what you write?

KREIMENDAHL ''Orange Julius'' is the most personal play I've ever written.

BARBAGALLO In early plays I wrote I was the protagonist, plays about a screwed
up 20-something. But as the years have gone on, I am so much less interesting to
myself.

KAUFMAN There's some of myself in all of my work. I have noticed recently that I
have a number of plays where there's a transmasculine person with a dead father.

None of you has written a traditional trans coming-out narrative. Do those
stories interest you?

KREIMENDAHL Nooo. I've never been interested in the coming-out narrative at all.
There's so much more to write about.

KAUFMAN I do think that one of the reasons I resisted the trans label for so
long was the only way I had encountered it was the story of someone who is born
in the wrong body and then they get surgery and they take hormones and they
transition and then they've found themselves. That's not true for me and for
most of the trans people I know.

You've all written gender nonconforming characters. Is it important to you that
gender nonconforming actors play those roles?

BARBAGALLO Trans roles, roles specifically for trans people, should be played by
trans actors. That's pretty simple.

KAUFMAN Definitely. Though I am trying to push the conversation away from this
authenticity bias of who can do the role most realistically and toward a labor
justice question of who's getting cast and who's not. Trans actors have a harder
time getting cast even in trans roles and this shouldn't be true.

KREIMENDAHL We have enough actors out there. It's worth reaching out, outside
the normal ways of casting.

BARBAGALLO I've been asked to come in and read for trans women. I think that
might be just about the worst casting choice you could make. There are really
gifted performers working who have not necessarily been through conservatory
training who could strengthen the fabric of our theater if you reached out to
them.

How do you feel about transgender narratives written by people who aren't
transgender?

BARBAGALLO Ooh! It's hot right now!

KREIMENDAHL There's something that just goes, that's not really my story, that's
a straight version of my story.

KAUFMAN I don't see very many cis writers writing about trans experience
responsibly. I would love to see that. There's an unfortunate compounding
problem that theaters would rather produce work about us, not by us right now.
We should get to tell our own stories first.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/13/theater/transgender-playwrights-we-should-get-
to-tell-our-own-stories-first.html

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left, the playwrights MJ Kaufman, Basil
Kreimendahl and Jess Barbagallo, at Lincoln Center
Bex Kwan, left, and Mia Katigbak, in Kaufman's ''Sagittarius Ponderosa,'' at 3LD
Art & Technology Center
Sara Moore, left, and DavEnd in Kreimendahl's ''Sidewinders''
and Gabriella Rhodeen, left, and Drae Campbell in Mr. Barbagallo's ''My Old Man
(And Other Stories),'' at Dixon Place. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IKE EDEANI FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES
WILLIAM P. STEELE
LAURA MASON
 CAITLIN OCHS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 14, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A TV Show That's Amazing, Not Necessarily Good

BYLINE: By JAMES PONIEWOZIK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1187 words


Well? Did you call it?

''Trompe L'Oeil,'' the seventh episode of HBO's ''Westworld,'' revealed a twist
that some sharp viewers had guessed almost from the show's beginning. (This is
the point at which I ask the spoiler-averse to hop aboard the departing train
from Sweetwater Station.) Bernard Lowe (Jeffrey Wright), the head programmer for
an Old West theme park populated with lifelike robots, is -- to his own surprise
-- himself a robot.

If you, like me, did not call it, don't worry; there are plenty of other
theories floating out there. That the park's supposedly deceased co-founder
Arnold is still around, in human or cyber form. That the mysterious Man in Black
(Ed Harris) is actually the park visitor William (Jimmi Simpson), 30 years
later. That the park's mastermind, Dr. Robert Ford (Anthony Hopkins), is also a
robot.

Maybe everyone else is a robot, too. Maybe you are! (How would you know? Mind.
Blown.)

At this point, in fact, it's beginning to feel like the puzzles have gained
sentience, Skynet-style, and killed off every other aspect of ''Westworld.''
This makes for a series that is cool, awesome, amazing -- but not necessarily
good.

Don't get me wrong: I have spent precious weeks of my limited time on Earth
theorizing about ''Twin Peaks,'' ''The X-Files'' and ''Lost'' over the years.
It's a time-honored way of engaging with stories, from detective fiction to the
fake-out narratives of marquee cable series like ''Mr. Robot,'' ''American
Horror Story'' and ''True Detective.''

''Westworld'' is, in one sense, the genre's lab-engineered supermachine. But in
serial television, this kind of puzzle fiction works best when it's told through
people you come to know and care about.

To the extent the characters in ''Westworld'' are compelling, on the other hand,
it's for how little you know them, not how well you do. To a person (or thing),
they're enigmas, and the show invites you to solve them.

So many matters that character drama usually establishes first -- personality,
motive -- ''Westworld'' withholds. The Man in Black, for instance: Is he the
sadistic villain that he first seems to be, or just a dedicated gamer trying to
defeat the park's boss level by finding a hidden maze? Is Ford an artist or a
megalomaniac?

The robots hosts are more interesting than the circuitboard-flat human staffers.
But it's arguable whether they can be said to be ''characters'' at all in the
usual sense, given that they can have their memories overwritten to play
entirely different roles. Or rather, maybe they are literally characters --
fictional constructs in human shells.

Recent episodes address this directly, as Maeve Millay (Thandie Newton) becomes
aware of her artificial nature and blackmails her handlers into juicing her
intelligence and other stats. She's revising her own character -- but her drive
to do that itself has to come from her psyche. Is that drive some innate,
inalienable ''her,'' as opposed to a factory setting? If so, where does it come
from?

This is all fascinating, but it's a clinical fascination -- a constant prompt,
in the show's words, to ''question the nature of your reality.'' Everyone in the
park is potentially, to borrow a recurring image, a player piano; any situation
might be trompe l'oeil. When you don't know who's real -- or what ''real'' is --
it's hard to know who to really care about.

This makes ''Westworld'' especially dependent on its mysteries for engagement.
And boy, are people engaged. There are dozens of podcasts devoted to parsing it.
(The show suggests the park itself has a fan community -- one character is
excited to discover an ''Easter egg'' that he's heard about within a narrative.)

But this also means that, if you and the internet hive-mind crack a certain
upcoming twist, there's little reason to invest in the story other than to see
if you were right.

This kind of storytelling is a trademark of Jonathan Nolan, who created the
series with his wife, Lisa Joy, and is known for the M. C. Escher narratives he
devised, with his brother Christopher Nolan, for the films ''Memento'' and
''Interstellar.''

Twist narratives work differently in series television. You see a movie in a
dark room unconnected to the outside world (assuming you obeyed the reminder to
switch off your cellphone). The story unfolds all at once. If you guess the
solution early, you have a short time to wait to be satisfied or disappointed.

In weekly serial TV, on the other hand, you have to sit with it for weeks. And
while you wait, it raises the question: What else am I here for? What else do I
care about?

This is a general risk of the twist-TV genre. Both seasons of the audacious
''Mr. Robot'' built up to big psych-out revelations based on the unreliable
perceptions of Elliot Alderson (Rami Malek). In Season 1, we learned that Mr.
Robot (Christian Slater), the companion who goaded Elliot into a
computer-hacking scheme, was a hallucination based on Elliot's father. In the
middle of Season 2, we learned that Elliot was in jail and that many of the
season's events had been fantasy.

In both cases, fans ''Encyclopedia Brown''-ed the twists well in advance -- the
creator, Sam Esmail, has said he expected them to. And there are other reasons
to watch the series, like its bravura direction and critiques of consumerism.

But there's a trade-off: Because so much of the series is filtered through an
unreliable narrator, for significant stretches it is, in a way, a story with
only one character -- we're not seeing other characters so much as Elliot's
perspective of them. That can make this series, too, easier to admire than to
love.

Looming behind this genre is ''Lost,'' the televisual Rubik's Cube that
popularized the idea that a story requires not just an ending but an answer.
(''Westworld'' is co-executive produced by the ''Lost'' co-creator J. J.
Abrams.) But ''Lost,'' even as it introduced smoke monsters and tropical polar
bears, also developed an ensemble of characters with distinctive voices and rich
personalities.

If ''Westworld'' is the ''Lost'' approach taken to a puzzle-centric extreme,
another ''Lost'' co-creator, Damon Lindelof, went the other way with HBO's ''The
Leftovers,'' based on a novel by Tom Perrotta.

Mr. Lindelof began that series, too, with an unexplained phenomenon -- the
rapture-like disappearance of 2 percent of humanity. But this time he promised
not to explain it, choosing instead to delve into the lives of those left behind
and, in the words of the series's Season 2 theme, ''Let the mystery be.''

''Westworld,'' on the other hand, lets nothing be -- it invites you to worry
every nugget like a loose tooth. The series is built to engage fans like
William, who describes visiting the park as waking up inside a story. ''I want
to find out what it all means,'' he says.

This is a story about stories, a puzzle about puzzles, a game about games,
gamers and game pieces. That's both the pleasure and the limitation of
''Westworld.'' It beckons you into a vast, ornate maze and asks you to trust
that you'll find something human inside, eventually, like the prize at the end.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/14/arts/television/westworld-a-show-thats-amazing
-but-not-necessarily-good.html

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeffrey Wright and Sidse Babett Knudsen in ''Westworld.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN P. JOHNSON/HBO) (C6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 15, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

More Retailers Are Choosing to Close on Thanksgiving Day

BYLINE: RACHEL ABRAMS

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 963 words



HIGHLIGHT: The decision to close is the latest evolution in the retail
industry's scramble to figure out how to compete in an increasingly complex
shopping season.


After spending several years rushing to open their doors on Thanksgiving Day,
retailers have been hit with a dose of reality: It may not be worth it.

Office Depot, Mall of America and the electronics store HHGregg have all
announced they will be closed on Thanksgiving. Other retailers like Sears will
open fewer stores, and of the locations that do open, many will have shorter
hours.

The companies give different reasons for the shift -- employees should be able
to spend time with family, for one -- but the overriding message is clear: For
some retailers, opening on Thanksgiving is too much of a headache.

"Those who have opened on Thanksgiving Day have come to recognize that you don't
need to open that early to drive the kind of sales you need," said Wendy
Liebmann, the chief executive of the consulting firm WSL Strategic Retail.

The decision to remain closed is the latest evolution in the retail industry's
scramble to figure out how to compete in an increasingly complicated holiday
shopping season, which seems to start earlier every year.

The day after Thanksgiving, often called Black Friday, traditionally indicated
the beginning of the annual promotional frenzy, but that idea became quaint in
recent years. In the post-recession age of Amazon, people want the deals they
have grown accustomed to finding, especially online, whenever they want them,
and the season began expanding.

"Consumers now know that they don't have to line up at five o'clock in the
morning," said Joel Bines, a co-head of the retail arm of AlixPartners, an
advisory firm.

That pressure to cut prices deeper and earlier drove many more retailers to
begin opening on Thanksgiving about five years ago. And many are still staying
open this year, including traditional department stores like Kohl's and J. C.
Penney. Macy's, the country's largest department store, will be open even in
shopping centers that will be closed, like Mall of America.

Opening on Thanksgiving makes sense for these and other retailers that rely
heavily on promotions. Stores like Walmart and Target, which will both open this
year, still offer the kinds of door-buster sales on televisions and electronics
that rally customers to line up early, even in the cold, Mr. Bines said.

Yet over all, the number of people shopping on Thanksgiving Day has been
declining. Last year, 34.6 million adults shopped on Thanksgiving, down from
43.1 million in 2014 and 44.8 million in 2013, according to annual surveys from
the National Retail Federation, an industry trade group, and Prosper Insights &
Analytics.

In 2014, total sales for the Thanksgiving weekend fell 11 percent from the
previous year, according to the most recent year-over-year comparison from the
retail federation.

"That is one of the reasons why we took the initiative of giving our associates
Thanksgiving off, because we have seen that activity go down significantly on
that day over the last couple of years," Robert Riesbeck, HHGregg's chief
executive, told analysts during a recent conference call.

Part of the challenge for retailers is figuring out whether Thanksgiving
generates more overall sales, or just takes shoppers, and therefore sales, away
from Black Friday. About 18 percent of people who shopped on Thanksgiving did
not shop the day after, yet the earlier shoppers generated about 30 percent of
all sales during the two-day periods in 2014 and 2015, according to an analysis
from the research firm NPD Group.

Retailers who generate more sales can expect to earn a profit margin of 16
percent for the weekend, according to AlixPartners. But retailers that just take
sales away from Black Friday by opening on Thanksgiving may generate only 3
percent.

Retailers are now rethinking whether the potential benefits outweigh other
headaches, like the negative publicity that comes with forcing employees to work
on a national holiday.

Initially, stores that opened on Thanksgiving tried to use the announcement as a
way to show consumers that their needs were being catered to. But closing on
Thanksgiving is also a way for companies to send the message that they are
socially responsible, which could help endear them to the increasingly important
millennial consumer.

In a separate announcement in October, for example, HHGregg said that it had
chosen to close because of its core "family-first" values, and that it believed
employees should be at home. Office Depot, too, said that its decision to close
came after weighing the "business and personal dynamics." A spokesman for Sears,
Brian Hanover, said the company had made a similar evaluation.

"There's been a lot of discussion and pushback both ways," Ms. Liebmann, of WSL
Strategic Retail, said.

But there are also logistical issues, like keeping shelves fully stocked through
Black Friday.

"There's a number of things that can make it challenging to have two huge days,
one right after the other," said Joel Alden, a partner in the retail practice of
A. T. Kearney, a consulting firm. "You can't move inventory to the store when
you have that much traffic in it."

Retailers also want to use one of the busiest times of years to hook new
customers with special promotions and merchandise. But making a bad impression
-- tired staff, poorly stocked shelves -- can have the opposite effect.

"If you do a lousy job over the Thanksgiving period, it may be a while before
those customers come back and visit you again," Mr. Alden said.

PHOTO: Black Friday shoppers on Fifth Avenue. The retail industry is scrambling
to figure out how to compete in an increasingly complex holiday shopping season,
which seems to start earlier every year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DINA LITOVSKY FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Thanksgiving Sales, for Big-Box Retailers, Are Not a Choice
     ·    Thanksgiving Openings Take Sales From Black Friday


LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 16, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

How Not to Overpay on Black Friday? Let the Web Be Your Guide;
Tech Fix

BYLINE: BRIAN X. CHEN

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; personaltech

LENGTH: 1053 words



HIGHLIGHT: Despite what the ads say, the overwhelming majority of deals on the
day after Thanksgiving are duds.


ATTENTION holiday shoppers, here is your annual public service announcement: The
overwhelming majority of Black Friday deals are duds.

We all know the drill by now. Retailers' sales promotions begin weeks before
Thanksgiving, with a smattering of modest deals that eventually build up to the
shopping bonanza that is Black Friday -- the day after Thanksgiving. That is
followed by Cyber Monday, a so-called online shopping extravaganza that takes
place the Monday after Thanksgiving weekend.

To whet shoppers' appetites further, it has become increasingly fashionable for
online retailers to build up anticipation for Black Friday with so-called flash
deals. These last only a few hours, putting pressure on consumers to make
purchases with little or no research.

Yet however you shop, the chances of snatching a great deal for a quality item
are slim, largely because Black Friday is mainly designed for retailers to clear
out unwanted goods, and because best-selling products rarely drop much in price.
So we teamed up again with The Wirecutter, a website for product recommendations
that was recently acquired by The New York Times, to weed out the good deals
from the bad.

Year round, The Wirecutter tracks product prices across the web to unearth
worthwhile deals on high-quality items. Less than 1 percent of the tens of
thousands of Black Friday deals online last year were good deals -- that is,
discounts on high-quality, well-reviewed and durable products -- and this year
the situation is likely to be the same, said Adam Burakowski, The Wirecutter's
associate deals editor.

Fret not, frugal shopper: Getting a good deal is still possible. It just takes a
bit of forethought and web sleuthing, Mr. Burakowski said.

"Come up with a list and ask yourself, What am I interested in and what is the
price now?" he said. "Just a slight check in advance would help out most
consumers."

This year, Americans are expected to spend $884.5 billion during the holiday
shopping season, a 3.3 percent increase from last year, and Black Friday is
expected to be the No. 1 shopping day, according to the research firm eMarketer.
Here's how a bit of research could help prevent you from needlessly burning
piles of money.

Deals, Good and Bad

Before we get into sleuthing for good deals, it's important to understand a bad
or mediocre deal. Retailers enjoy exaggerating their discounts for products in
the weeks leading up to Black Friday, as well as on the actual day.

An example of a bad deal on Amazon: On Monday, Amazon listed a set of 42
Rubbermaid storage containers for $16 as one of its deals of the day. But a
quick search on Camel Camel Camel, an online tool that looks up price histories
on Amazon items, reveals that the set was priced at $10 in late October and $14
earlier this month. So $16 is nothing to be excited about.

Sometimes mediocre deals can be tricky to catch. Toward the end of October,
Amazon listed a deal for its Kindle Paperwhite e-reader for $100. On the
surface, this may seem like a good deal because the retail price is $120. But at
the beginning of October, the Paperwhite was discounted to $90 -- a price drop
that Camel Camel Camel could not detect because the discount was applied at the
end of the checkout process, Mr. Burakowski said.

Amazon did not respond to a request for comment.

So what's a good deal? Amazon this week listed for $30 an Anker battery pack for
charging mobile devices. That is worthwhile, because the price of the item had
remained flat at $40 for over a year, according to its price history.

The Wirecutter highlighted another good deal this week: Samsung's SmartThings
Hub, a smart home controller, is $50 on Amazon, down from $100. The previous
lowest price was $75.

The lesson? Make a list of products you want to buy. Then check their Amazon
price histories and buy the items if they drop to your desired amount.

Daniel Green, a founder of Camel Camel Camel, also recommends this shortcut:
Create a wish list on Amazon.com and import it to Camel Camel Camel. That way
the site automatically watches all the items and alerts you when the prices
drop.

There's also a more automated option if you don't want to do all the homework.
Follow the Twitter accounts for the deals pages run by The Wirecutter and The
Sweethome, its sister publication for home appliances and accessories. During
the week of Black Friday, their team will be posting good deals on Twitter for
high-quality items as soon as they see them.

Brick-and-Mortar Shopping

The same lessons for shopping wisely online apply to brick-and-mortar stores.

Before you line up at Best Buy or Walmart, browse the ads, highlight the
products you want to buy and check their Amazon price histories online to assess
whether the deals are any good.

However, sales catalogs don't include everything that's on sale, and when you're
in the store, navigating deals while shoving through a crowd will be more
challenging. That's where the free smartphone app ShopSavvy may be helpful to
have on your phone. ShopSavvy said people can use its app to scan an item's bar
code, and the software then loads the price of that item at different online and
physical retail stores.

For example, I used ShopSavvy to scan a bar code for a pack of Swiffer duster
refills. Within seconds, the app loaded the price of the refills at various
stores: $10.34 at Walmart, $9.97 at Amazon.com and $14 at Walgreens. If I
scanned that item at a store, I would put it down and order it on Amazon.

There is an easier way to avoid regrettable purchases when shopping in physical
stores: Just don't do it, and shop only online. The good deals at physical
stores are as rare as the ones you would find online, Mr. Burakowski said. So
before subjecting yourself to the misery of sleeping outside Best Buy, consider
staying home and watching the deals roll out on the web.

Email: brian.chen@nytimes.com; Twitter: @bxchen.

PHOTO: Gale Lee of Georgia shopping in Manhattan on Black Friday last year. Many
retailers promote the day heavily, but use it to clear out unwanted goods,
rarely offering good deals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DINA LITOVSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6)

Related Articles


     ·    How to Save Money (and Hassles) on Your Black Friday Shopping
     ·    More Retailers Are Choosing to Close on Thanksgiving Day


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 17, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

At the Los Angeles Auto Show, an Industry Ponders Its Digital Future;
Wheels

BYLINE: TOM VOELK

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES; autoshow

LENGTH: 1374 words



HIGHLIGHT: Automakers promoted their high-tech bona fides and environmentally
friendly conscience at the AutoMobility LA conference.


Correction Appended

LOS ANGELES - For decades, the car business has been about style, performance,
image and fuel efficiency. But suddenly, the industry is in a technological and
sociological upheaval that may force automobiles - and the companies that make
them - to change more in the next five years than they have in the last 50.

That was evident in this week's AutoMobility LA conference, an event held by the
organizers of the Los Angeles Auto Show, which will continue over the next two
weeks.

AutoMobility is an apt name, because much of the innovation seems to involve
making the car ever more like a giant smartphone on wheels. But social mobility
is a factor, too, as carmakers confront the surging popularity of ride-hailing
services, which means fewer people see a need to own a car, while the push
toward autonomous vehicles portends a time when many cars will not need people
to drive them.

Maybe this auto convention should be renamed the Los Angeles Technology Show,
given the presence of companies like Intel, Cisco and Garmin here, all intent on
making digital, internet-connected vehicleseven more so. Digital security
companies, like Argus Cyber Security and QNX, were also here, promising to
protect networked cars against hackers.

Automakers, including BMW, Ford, Hyundai, Porsche and Mercedes-Benz, promoted
their digital bona fides and extolled services like Android Auto or Apple
CarPlay that are meant to allow the safer, hands-free use of smartphones in the
car, even though safety experts say such features may be contributing to the
sometimes fatal problem of distracted driving.

Hyundai announced a partnership with Amazon that would enable the South Korean
automaker's cars to be remotely started, and the heater or air-conditioner to be
turned on, by speaking to an Amazon Echo device inside the home. It was only the
latest in a series of car-related apps that Amazon has introduced through Echo
and the Alexa personal assistant. Other apps include one that enables Alexa to
hail Uber rides.

Uber, of course, and other ride-hailing services like Lyft, are potentially big
disrupters of the automakers' conventional business model of selling cars to
individual consumers. And new variants are coming along, including See Jane Go,
which had a booth at the conference. The company addresses a concern of many
women by recruiting only female drivers and accepting only female passengers.

Mark F. Fields, Ford Motor's chief executive, spoke here of the opportunities he
saw in selling vehicles to the ride-sharing industry, including, eventually,
ones that would drive themselves. But optimism requires the car industry to
reimagine itself. Instead of the worldwide automobile industry thinking of
itself as the $2.3 trillion business it is now, Mr. Fields said, it should see
itself as part of the much bigger global transportation industry.

General Motors is already hedging itself in ride hailing, having taken a $500
million stake in Lyft. Under G.M.'s separate Maven car-sharing service, which
offers by-the-hour rental to consumers, the company is also rentingcars to Uber
drivers. G.M. considers Maven a way to expose consumers to its various models,
even if the people are not in the market to buy one.

BMW has its own car-sharing venture, ReachNow, which operates in Seattle and
Portland, Ore., and will soon be in Brooklyn. It allows members to drive a BMW
or Mini vehicle for 41 cents a minute of operation.

ReachNow's chief executive, Steve Banfield, in an interview here, compared the
concept to Netflix, the video service that has helped render ownership of DVDs
superfluous. That might seem like a threat to BMW's business of selling cars,
but Mr. Banfield described it as more of a get-acquainted marketing approach.

Some ReachNow members sign up simply for extended test drives of BMW cars like
the electric i3, Mr. Banfield said. And younger members who cannot afford a
vehicle early in their careers can become familiar with BMW's products, making
them more likely to become buyers once their salaries catch up with their
tastes, he said.

For people who do own cars but who would not mind some help paying for them,
there are mobile-app services like Turo, which enable car owners to rent out
their cars. By renting their vehicles for nine days each month, owners could
probably cover their entire car payments and maybe even turn a profit, David
Stewart, Turo's chief business officer, said in a presentation here.

Turo is good news for automakers, Mr. Stewart said, because it might help
someone wary of owning a vehicle to afford to buy one, or to move up to a more
luxurious model as the rental income made it affordable.

But the question of who does or does not own a car now might one day seem a
quaint distinction when cars start driving themselves. And when that time comes,
the companies with the biggest identity crises may be ones like Ferrari,
Lamborghini and Porsche that have persuaded the public to spend big money on the
thrill of taking the wheel.

Detlev von Platen, executive board member for sales and marketing at Porsche,
views it as an evolution.

"Our cars will always be about the driving experience because that's what we
sell - experiences," Mr. von Platen said. "But we must provide options for our
owners, and self-driving technologies that can be activated when desired must be
considered."

And a self-driving Porsche might be more than a robotic tram. Imagine
experiencing the throttle, braking and steering inputs of a professional driver
on a racetrack. That could be programmed into the car, said Oliver Blume,
Porsche's chief executive.

Porsche might also experiment with new types of sales or leasing options to
cultivate loyalty. Mr. von Platen said the company might consider a "flex
lease," under which someone leasing a two-seat 718 Cayman would gain access to a
Cayenne S.U.V. for seven days a year, which could be handy for when five seats
are needed.

The other big technology topic was electric vehicles, which all carmakers have
been pursuing as a way to address concerns about the climate, as well as
government-mandated rules and targets for lower emissions and higher fuel
efficiency.

Jaguar announced its I-Pace all-electric S.U.V., a concept car that the company
said would be available in 2018.

And yet the election of Donald J. Trump, a climate-change skeptic who is widely
expected to scale back automotive emission and fuel-efficiency regulations,
could alter the industry's planning for environmentally friendlier cars. The
possible relaxation of those regulations was an undercurrent here.

And the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, which represents a dozen of the
biggest car and light-truck makers, recently wrote to the Trump transition team
urging a reassessment of emissions rules that the group said posed a
"substantial challenge" to the industry.

Mr. Blume of Porsche said his company would stay on its current technology
track, even if fuel-economy and emissions standards were relaxed.

"When we think of new technology, we don't concern ourselves with political
changes," Mr. Blume said. "We think electrification is a technology of the
future, and we have a responsibility to the environment."

That debate simply reinforces a characteristic that was fully apparent at
AutoMobility LA: The automotive business is not just about moving vehicles; it's
about moving targets.


Correction: November 21, 2016, Monday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on
the Automobiles page on Friday 18 about the heavy technology focus of the Los
Angeles Auto Show misstated the name of the personal assistant in the Amazon
Echo. It is Alexa, not Alexis. The article also gave an incorrect title for
Detlev von Platen, who commented on autonomous driving technology. He is
executive board member for sales and marketing at Porsche, not president and
chief executive of Porsche Cars North America.

PHOTO: A fiber-carbon chassis made by Divergent, which uses 3-D printing in its
automobile construction, at AutoMobility LA. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULES BIANCHI)

Related Articles


     ·    Biggest Spike in Traffic Deaths in 50 Years? Blame Apps
     ·    One Day, Cars Will Connect With Your Fridge and Your Heartbeat
     ·    Smartphones Bring More Mobility to the Rental Car Business


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 17, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump, After Fits and Starts, Focuses on Foreign Policy

BYLINE: MARK LANDLER and MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1352 words



HIGHLIGHT: The president-elect met with the prime minister of Japan, Shinzo Abe,
and also held meetings with several experts and the Israeli ambassador.


WASHINGTON -- President-elect Donald J. Trump embarked on one of the rituals of
the American presidency on Thursday, meeting in New York with the prime minister
of Japan, Shinzo Abe, as he continued his fitful adjustment to the protocols of
high-level diplomacy.

"I am convinced Mr. Trump is a leader in whom I can have great confidence," Mr.
Abe said after the meeting at Trump Tower. He described the 90-minute encounter
as "really cordial."

The visit with Mr. Abe came after 32 congratulatory phone calls from foreign
leaders in the nine days since Mr. Trump won the election. None seem to have
adhered to established diplomatic practice, in which the State Department
choreographs the sequence of the calls and provides policy guidance and
translating services.

On Thursday night, the State Department said it was finally in contact with Mr.
Trump's emissaries. But until now, they had not requested any briefings, nor had
the president-elect's calls -- including with President Vladimir V. Putin of
Russia and other adversaries of the United States -- been routed through the
State Department, as is customary, according to a department official.

Mr. Trump's aides did not respond to questions about whether the president-elect
had used his own interpreter in the meeting with Mr. Abe and calls with other
leaders, or whether he had relied on interpreters provided by them.

"The order that the calls are done in seems like a silly protocol issue. But
it's one that people really think about," said Loren DeJonge Schulman, a senior
fellow at the Center for a New American Security and a former top aide to the
national security adviser, Susan E. Rice. "They are taking messages away from
that, whether you think it's important or not."

Mr. Abe's visit -- Mr. Trump's first with a foreign leader since the election --
came on a day when the president-elect was steeped in foreign policy. He met
with former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger to discuss "events and issues
around the world," ranging from Russia and China to Iran and the European Union,
according to the transition team.

He met with Ron Dermer, Israel's ambassador to the United States, who told
reporters afterward that "Israel has no doubt that President-elect Trump is a
true friend of Israel." Mr. Dermer said he looked forward to working with "all
of the members of the Trump administration, including Stephen K. Bannon," Mr.
Trump's chief strategist, who has been accused of promoting anti-Semitism
through his right-wing news media operation, Breitbart News.

He met Adm. Michael S. Rogers, the director of the National Security Agency and
the top officer at the military's Cyber Command, which gave him his first
in-depth exposure to the government's surveillance abilities.

And he met with Gen. Jack Keane, a former Army vice chief of staff who has been
a longtime informal adviser to Hillary Clinton and a mentor to Gen. David H.
Petraeus, as well as a prime architect of the Iraq troop surge in the George W.
Bush administration.

"I was impressed, frankly, for a couple of reasons," General Keane said in a
telephone interview. "One, by how personable he is, and two, by his intellectual
curiosity about national security events. Most presidential candidates don't
have an in-depth knowledge of national security issues. But he asked excellent
questions."

General Keane declined to discuss the advice he had given Mr. Trump. But he said
the new president's greatest challenge would be to maintain America's leadership
in a world in which radical Islamic militancy was threatening to metastasize
into a "global jihadist movement," and hostile powers like Russia, China and
Iran were seeking regional dominance.

During the campaign, Mr. Trump called into question the network of security
alliances that the United States had maintained since World War II, saying the
country's partners in Europe and Asia were not paying their fair share for the
American umbrella of protection.

Few allies were as rattled by Mr. Trump's campaign statements as Japan. At one
point, he suggested that Japan and South Korea consider acquiring nuclear
weapons to protect themselves.

In the days leading to Thursday's meeting, officials from the Japanese Foreign
and Trade Ministries were urging Mr. Abe to take a tough line with Mr. Trump on
the value of the Trans-Pacific Partnership -- a huge trade deal that Mr. Trump
opposes -- and the countries' defense alliance, which Mr. Trump has said Japan
must contribute more money toward, according to Michael J. Green, a former
official in the Bush administration with close ties to Japan.

But Mr. Abe appeared to reject that advice, preferring to focus on cultivating a
personal relationship with Mr. Trump. Some Japan experts speculated that Mr. Abe
was concerned about getting off on the right foot with Mr. Trump because when
the Japanese leader traveled to New York in September for the United Nations
General Assembly meeting, he met with Mrs. Clinton, who was then the favorite in
the presidential race, but not Mr. Trump.

"The Japanese prime minister has done very well with strongmen like Modi and
Putin," said Mr. Green, referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India and
the Russian president.

"The question the Japanese side still cannot understand is what a Trump
administration will actually do on Asia," Mr. Green added.

Dispelling such confusion is one reason for the choreographed nature of the
first calls made to leaders. In 2008, Mr. Obama's transition team had a plan for
the president-elect. On the morning of Election Day, Ms. Rice, who later became
Mr. Obama's ambassador to the United Nations, described the plan in an email to
two of his other advisers.

"In anticipation of the many calls from foreign leaders, we have prepared a list
of priority calls to return and the briefing memos," Ms. Rice wrote at 9:13 a.m.
"Our view is that he should return the calls through the State Dpt. Ops Center,
which is comparatively apolitical and professional, has translation capabilities
and can assist as desired with note-taking."

The Ops Center serves as a giant switchboard for the government, providing
interpreters as needed to ensure that American officials are confident their
words are being translated accurately. Using government switchboards can also
help prevent hoaxes. During the 2008 campaign, two French comedians pretending
to be the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, pranked Sarah Palin, the Republican
vice-presidential nominee, two days before the election.

That call got through despite the fact that advisers to Senator John McCain of
Arizona, the Republican presidential nominee, had a policy of never letting Mr.
McCain take a call from a purported foreign leader without first checking out
the telephone number with the State Department, according to a person familiar
with that campaign's operations.

In Mr. Trump's case, it has been catch-as-catch-can.

Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull of Australia reached out to Mr. Trump early in
the week after getting his phone number from Greg Norman, a professional golfer,
apparently becoming the second world leader to congratulate him after President
Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt. Mr. Turnbull beat Theresa May, the British prime
minister.

In the case of Mr. Trump's brief conversation with the Italian prime minister,
Matteo Renzi, it was conducted in English, though the president-elect said to
Mr. Renzi, "Ciao."

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting from New York.

PHOTO: Ron Dermer, Israel's ambassador to the United States, met with Donald J.
Trump, as did several foreign policy experts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HILARY SWIFT FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Jeff Sessions Appears Headed to a Trump Cabinet Position
     ·    Trump's Transition in a 'Long History' of Rocky Presidential Handovers
     ·    Firings and Discord Put Trump Transition Team in a State of Disarray
     ·    Trump Transition Nominates No One -- But Does Name Inaugural Committee
     ·    As Transition Pace Picks Up, Trump Nears Cabinet Nominations
     ·    When a Phrase Takes On New Meaning: 'Radical Islam,' Explained


LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 17, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Avoiding the Black Friday Blues

BYLINE: By BRIAN X. CHEN.

Email: brian.chen@nytimes.com; Twitter: @bxchen.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TECH FIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 979 words


ATTENTION holiday shoppers, here is your annual public service announcement: The
overwhelming majority of Black Friday deals are duds.

We all know the drill by now. Retailers' sales promotions begin weeks before
Thanksgiving, with a smattering of modest deals that eventually build up to the
shopping bonanza that is Black Friday -- the day after Thanksgiving. That is
followed by Cyber Monday, a so-called online shopping extravaganza that takes
place the Monday after Thanksgiving weekend.

To whet shoppers' appetites further, it has become increasingly fashionable for
online retailers to build up anticipation for Black Friday with so-called flash
deals. These last only a few hours, putting pressure on consumers to make
purchases with little or no research.

Yet however you shop, the chances of snatching a great deal for a quality item
are slim, largely because Black Friday is mainly designed for retailers to clear
out unwanted goods, and because best-selling products rarely drop much in price.
So we teamed up again with The Wirecutter, a website for product recommendations
that was recently acquired by The New York Times, to weed out the good deals
from the bad.

Year round, The Wirecutter tracks product prices across the web to unearth
worthwhile deals on high-quality items. Less than 1 percent of the tens of
thousands of Black Friday deals online last year were good deals -- that is,
discounts on high-quality, well-reviewed and durable products -- and this year
the situation is likely to be the same, said Adam Burakowski, The Wirecutter's
associate deals editor.

Fret not, frugal shopper: Getting a good deal is still possible. It just takes a
bit of forethought and web sleuthing, Mr. Burakowski said.

''Come up with a list and ask yourself, What am I interested in and what is the
price now?'' he said. ''Just a slight check in advance would help out most
consumers.''

This year, Americans are expected to spend $884.5 billion during the holiday
shopping season, a 3.3 percent increase from last year, and Black Friday is
expected to be the No. 1 shopping day, according to the research firm eMarketer.
Here's how a bit of research could help prevent you from needlessly burning
piles of money.

Deals, Good and Bad

Before we get into sleuthing for good deals, it's important to understand a bad
or mediocre deal. Retailers enjoy exaggerating their discounts for products in
the weeks leading up to Black Friday, as well as on the actual day.

An example of a bad deal on Amazon: On Monday, Amazon listed a set of 42
Rubbermaid storage containers for $16 as one of its deals of the day. But a
quick search on Camel Camel Camel, an online tool that looks up price histories
on Amazon items, reveals that the set was priced at $10 in late October and $14
earlier this month. So $16 is nothing to be excited about.

Sometimes mediocre deals can be tricky to catch. Toward the end of October,
Amazon listed a deal for its Kindle Paperwhite e-reader for $100. On the
surface, this may seem like a good deal because the retail price is $120. But at
the beginning of October, the Paperwhite was discounted to $90 -- a price drop
that Camel Camel Camel could not detect because the discount was applied at the
end of the checkout process, Mr. Burakowski said.

Amazon did not respond to a request for comment.

So what's a good deal? Amazon this week listed for $30 an Anker battery pack for
charging mobile devices. That is worthwhile, because the price of the item had
remained flat at $40 for over a year, according to its price history.

The Wirecutter highlighted another good deal this week: Samsung's SmartThings
Hub, a smart home controller, is $50 on Amazon, down from $100. The previous
lowest price was $75.

The lesson? Make a list of products you want to buy. Then check their Amazon
price histories and buy the items if they drop to your desired amount.

Daniel Green, a founder of Camel Camel Camel, also recommends this shortcut:
Create a wish list on Amazon.com and import it to Camel Camel Camel. That way
the site automatically watches all the items and alerts you when the prices
drop.

There's also a more automated option if you don't want to do all the homework.
Follow the Twitter accounts for the deals pages run by The Wirecutter and The
Sweethome, its sister publication for home appliances and accessories. During
the week of Black Friday, their team will be posting good deals on Twitter for
high-quality items as soon as they see them.

Brick-and-Mortar Shopping

The same lessons for shopping wisely online apply to brick-and-mortar stores.

Before you line up at Best Buy or Walmart, browse the ads, highlight the
products you want to buy and check their Amazon price histories online to assess
whether the deals are any good.

However, sales catalogs don't include everything that's on sale, and when you're
in the store, navigating deals while shoving through a crowd will be more
challenging. That's where the free smartphone app ShopSavvy may be helpful to
have on your phone. ShopSavvy said people can use its app to scan an item's bar
code, and the software then loads the price of that item at different online and
physical retail stores.

For example, I used ShopSavvy to scan a bar code for a pack of Swiffer duster
refills. Within seconds, the app loaded the price of the refills at various
stores: $10.34 at Walmart, $9.97 at Amazon.com and $14 at Walgreens. If I
scanned that item at a store, I would put it down and order it on Amazon.

There is an easier way to avoid regrettable purchases when shopping in physical
stores: Just don't do it, and shop only online. The good deals at physical
stores are as rare as the ones you would find online, Mr. Burakowski said. So
before subjecting yourself to the misery of sleeping outside Best Buy, consider
staying home and watching the deals roll out on the web.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/17/technology/personaltech/how-not-to-overpay-on-
black-friday-let-the-web-be-your-guide.html

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gale Lee of Georgia shopping in Manhattan on Black Friday last
year. Many retailers promote the day heavily, but use it to clear out unwanted
goods, rarely offering good deals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DINA LITOVSKY FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 18, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

How to Save Money (and Hassles) on Your Black Friday Shopping

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER MELE

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 680 words



HIGHLIGHT: Lower prices can be had by relying on a few innovative approaches
without having to camp outside a big box store.


If the idea of Black Friday shopping gives you the blues, cheer up.

A few innovative approaches can help you find lower prices without having to
camp outside a big box store.

Use discounted gift cards

Joanie Demer, a co-owner of thekrazycouponlady.com, recommended going to
websites such as raise.com and giftcardgranny.com to buy discounted gift cards,
a strategy that works year-round. Savings average from 8 to 12 percent. "It's
not a ton, but it adds up," she said in an interview.

Instead of buying a gift card before shopping, add up your purchases in the
store and use an app from the site to download the amount you need. This will
help curb overspending, she said.

Timing is important

People who do all of their holiday shopping on the Friday after Thanksgiving are
not getting the best deals, Ms. Demer said.

The sweet spot for the best bargains is Dec. 10-18, but, she warned, shopping
from Dec. 19 onward is not good because retailers know you are desperate, and
they are less likely to cut prices.

She added that 95 percent of the Black Friday bargains to be found in
brick-and-mortar stores - with the exception of "doorbusters," those deeply
discounted items intended to draw shoppers in - can be found online. If you are
not keen on crowds, shop online.

Abandon your virtual shopping cart

The week before Black Friday, fill your virtual shopping cart with merchandise,
then log out of your account - don't just close your tab but fully log out of
the site - said Kyle James, the founder of rather-be-shopping.com.

"By doing so, in many cases, it will trigger an automated coupon sent to your
inbox pleading for you to come back and complete your purchase with the coupon,"
Mr. James said in an email.

The coupon offers may be for free shipping or discounts of up to 20 percent off
a purchase, he said. "It's a passive-aggressive way to get a deal."

Have a live chat online

Sometimes getting a price break can be as simple as asking.

Activate the live chat feature that many online retailers have and politely ask
for a coupon for free shipping or a percentage off your purchase.

"These live chat operators are trained to see this person has stuff in their
cart and they're prepared to make a purchase - let's throw them a bone," Mr.
James said in a telephone interview.

Shop on eBay

Doorbuster merchandise is usually in such limited supply that only the most
dedicated shoppers - those who camp outside the store to be the first ones in at
opening hour - will get what they want. The remaining shoppers become a "captive
audience, and now they'll go out and buy a bunch of stuff at near full price or
full price," Mr. James said.

Many of those people will turn around and sell the heavily discounted items on
eBay, he said. Because they are looking to turn a profit quickly, their markups
will be modest.

Look for price matches

Downloading the Amazon app can be a useful way to compare prices in stores
against the online retail giant. "It's a good tool to make sure you're not
making a stupid purchase," Ms. Demer said.

Many big box stores will match a lower Amazon price if you present proof of the
lower price at the customer service desk. That rule is in place year-round, but
many stores make an exception for Black Friday. Dick's Sporting Goods and Bed
Bath & Beyond are among the few retailers who will still honor the price match
on Black Friday, she said.

Shop strategically

Skip the shopping cart, because navigating crowded store aisles with one will
only prolong your visit, Ms. Demer said. She recommended taking an oversize
reusable shopping bag instead.

It's also best to avoid bringing your spouse and children to the store, she
said.

"The more people you bring, the more money you're going to spend and the more
angry you're going to become," she said. "Chaos and impulse buying, it's all
much worse."

PHOTO: Experts say most of the Black Friday bargains to be found in stores are
also available online. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM YOUNG/REUTERS) (B2)

Related Articles


     ·    More Retailers Are Choosing to Close on Thanksgiving Day
     ·    How Not to Overpay on Black Friday? Let the Web Be Your Guide


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 18, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

Travel Discounts for Cyber Monday;
Chasing the Deal

BYLINE: ELAINE GLUSAC

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 335 words



HIGHLIGHT: Resorts and hotels will be offering sales on stays.


Take a vacation break between clicks on Amazon or Etsy on Nov. 28, a.k.a. Cyber
Monday, the biggest internet shopping day of the year. Hotels and resorts,
including the following, commonly hold Cyber Monday sales, discounting future
stays.

The Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas will hold its holiday sale from Black Friday, Nov.
25, through Cyber Monday, offering a second night free on a one-night booking
over select dates November through February. Rooms start at $150 a night.

Appealing to beachgoers, the Copamarina Beach Resort & Spa in southwest Puerto
Rico will sell rooms Black Friday through Cyber Monday starting at $129 a night
for stays between Jan. 2 and April 30 (there are some blackout dates). The
resort requires a two-night minimum stay.

In Miami, four Victor Hotels, a small collection of boutique hotels in South
Beach, will offer rates at 40 percent off on bookings made Nov. 25 through 28 on
travel through June, with a few blackout dates over the December holidays.
Discounted rooms will start at $79 a night at the Casa Victoria Orchid and the
Hotel Ocean.

Plan spring break in Costa Rica, where Nayara Springs resort in Arenal Volcano
National Park is offering 35 percent off four-night stays from Jan. 1 to April
1. The discounted price of $1,950 includes daily breakfast, yoga classes and
free minibar items.

In the wine country of Napa Valley, Silverado Resort & Spa will offer rooms at
30 percent off and include a $50 resort credit on bookings made Nov. 25 through
28 for travel Nov. 25 to March 31. The deal is also offered April 1 to Oct. 31
on Sundays through Thursdays only. Rates start at $159 a night with the
discount.

Apparently, it's never too early to think about baseball in Boston, where the
Hotel Commonwealth will hold a 127-minute sale on Cyber Monday, which is 127
days from baseball's opening day. Beginning at 1:27 p.m. on Nov. 28, rooms will
cost $127 a night for stays until April 3.

PHOTO: View at the Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE COSMOPOLITAN OF
LAS VEGAS)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump, After a Fitful Beginning, Tackles Foreign Policy, if Not Protocol

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1261 words


WASHINGTON -- President-elect Donald J. Trump embarked on one of the rituals of
the American presidency on Thursday, meeting in New York with the prime minister
of Japan, Shinzo Abe, as he continued his fitful adjustment to the protocols of
high-level diplomacy.

''I am convinced Mr. Trump is a leader in whom I can have great confidence,''
Mr. Abe said after the meeting at Trump Tower. He described the 90-minute
encounter as ''really cordial.''

The visit with Mr. Abe came after 32 congratulatory phone calls from foreign
leaders in the nine days since Mr. Trump won the election. None seem to have
adhered to established diplomatic practice, in which the State Department
choreographs the sequence of the calls and provides policy guidance and
translating services.

On Thursday night, the State Department said it was finally in contact with Mr.
Trump's emissaries. But until now, they had not requested any briefings, nor had
the president-elect's calls -- including with President Vladimir V. Putin of
Russia and other adversaries of the United States -- been routed through the
State Department, as is customary, according to a department official.

Mr. Trump's aides did not respond to questions about whether the president-elect
had used his own interpreter in the meeting with Mr. Abe and calls with other
leaders, or whether he had relied on interpreters provided by them.

''The order that the calls are done in seems like a silly protocol issue. But
it's one that people really think about,'' said Loren DeJonge Schulman, a senior
fellow at the Center for a New American Security and a former top aide to the
national security adviser, Susan E. Rice. ''They are taking messages away from
that, whether you think it's important or not.''

Mr. Abe's visit -- Mr. Trump's first with a foreign leader since the election --
came on a day when the president-elect was steeped in foreign policy. He met
with former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger to discuss ''events and issues
around the world,'' ranging from Russia and China to Iran and the European
Union, according to the transition team.

He met with Ron Dermer, Israel's ambassador to the United States, who told
reporters afterward that ''Israel has no doubt that President-elect Trump is a
true friend of Israel.'' Mr. Dermer said he looked forward to working with ''all
of the members of the Trump administration, including Stephen K. Bannon,'' Mr.
Trump's chief strategist, who has been accused of promoting anti-Semitism
through his right-wing news media operation, Breitbart News.

He met Adm. Michael S. Rogers, the director of the National Security Agency and
the top officer at the military's Cyber Command, which gave him his first
in-depth exposure to the government's surveillance abilities.

And he met with Gen. Jack Keane, a former Army vice chief of staff who has been
a longtime informal adviser to Hillary Clinton and a mentor to Gen. David H.
Petraeus, as well as a prime architect of the Iraq troop surge in the George W.
Bush administration.

''I was impressed, frankly, for a couple of reasons,'' General Keane said in a
telephone interview. ''One, by how personable he is, and two, by his
intellectual curiosity about national security events. Most presidential
candidates don't have an in-depth knowledge of national security issues. But he
asked excellent questions.''

General Keane declined to discuss the advice he had given Mr. Trump. But he said
the new president's greatest challenge would be to maintain America's leadership
in a world in which radical Islamic militancy was threatening to metastasize
into a ''global jihadist movement,'' and hostile powers like Russia, China and
Iran were seeking regional dominance.

During the campaign, Mr. Trump called into question the network of security
alliances that the United States had maintained since World War II, saying the
country's partners in Europe and Asia were not paying their fair share for the
American umbrella of protection.

Few allies were as rattled by Mr. Trump's campaign statements as Japan. At one
point, he suggested that Japan and South Korea consider acquiring nuclear
weapons to protect themselves.

In the days leading to Thursday's meeting, officials from the Japanese Foreign
and Trade Ministries were urging Mr. Abe to take a tough line with Mr. Trump on
the value of the Trans-Pacific Partnership -- a huge trade deal that Mr. Trump
opposes -- and the countries' defense alliance, which Mr. Trump has said Japan
must contribute more money toward, according to Michael J. Green, a former
official in the Bush administration with close ties to Japan.

But Mr. Abe appeared to reject that advice, preferring to focus on cultivating a
personal relationship with Mr. Trump. Some Japan experts speculated that Mr. Abe
was concerned about getting off on the right foot with Mr. Trump because when
the Japanese leader traveled to New York in September for the United Nations
General Assembly meeting, he met with Mrs. Clinton, who was then the favorite in
the presidential race, but not Mr. Trump.

''The Japanese prime minister has done very well with strongmen like Modi and
Putin,'' said Mr. Green, referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India and
the Russian president.

''The question the Japanese side still cannot understand is what a Trump
administration will actually do on Asia,'' Mr. Green added.

Dispelling such confusion is one reason for the choreographed nature of the
first calls made to leaders. In 2008, Mr. Obama's transition team had a plan for
the president-elect. On the morning of Election Day, Ms. Rice, who later became
Mr. Obama's ambassador to the United Nations, described the plan in an email to
two of his other advisers.

''In anticipation of the many calls from foreign leaders, we have prepared a
list of priority calls to return and the briefing memos,'' Ms. Rice wrote at
9:13 a.m. ''Our view is that he should return the calls through the State Dpt.
Ops Center, which is comparatively apolitical and professional, has translation
capabilities and can assist as desired with note-taking.''

The Ops Center serves as a giant switchboard for the government, providing
interpreters as needed to ensure that American officials are confident their
words are being translated accurately. Using government switchboards can also
help prevent hoaxes. During the 2008 campaign, two French comedians pretending
to be the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, pranked Sarah Palin, the Republican
vice-presidential nominee, two days before the election.

That call got through despite the fact that advisers to Senator John McCain of
Arizona, the Republican presidential nominee, had a policy of never letting Mr.
McCain take a call from a purported foreign leader without first checking out
the telephone number with the State Department, according to a person familiar
with that campaign's operations.

In Mr. Trump's case, it has been catch-as-catch-can.

Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull of Australia reached out to Mr. Trump early in
the week after getting his phone number from Greg Norman, a professional golfer,
apparently becoming the second world leader to congratulate him after President
Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt. Mr. Turnbull beat Theresa May, the British prime
minister.

In the case of Mr. Trump's brief conversation with the Italian prime minister,
Matteo Renzi, it was conducted in English, though the president-elect said to
Mr. Renzi, ''Ciao.''

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/18/us/politics/donald-trump-after-fits-and-starts
-focuses-on-foreign-policy.html

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ron Dermer, Israel's ambassador to the United States, met with
Donald J. Trump, as did several foreign policy experts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HILARY
SWIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

At Los Angeles Auto Show, an Industry Ponders Its Digital Future

BYLINE: By TOM VOELK

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WHEELS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1235 words


LOS ANGELES -- For decades, the car business has been about style, performance,
image and fuel efficiency. But suddenly, the industry is in a technological and
sociological upheaval that may force automobiles -- and the companies that make
them -- to change more in the next five years than they have in the last 50.

That was evident in this week's AutoMobility LA conference, a one-day event held
by the organizers of the Los Angeles Auto Show that will continue over the next
two weeks.

AutoMobility is an apt name, because much of the innovation seems to involve
making the car ever more like a giant smartphone on wheels. But social mobility
is a factor, too, as carmakers confront the surging popularity of ride-hailing
services, which means fewer people see a need to own a car, while the push
toward autonomous vehicles portends a time when many cars will not need people
to drive them.

Maybe this auto convention should be renamed the Los Angeles Technology Show,
given the presence of companies like Intel, Cisco and Garmin here, all intent on
making digital, internet-connected vehicles even more so. Digital security
companies, like Argus Cyber Security and QNX, were also here, promising to
protect networked cars against hackers.

Automakers, including BMW, Ford, Hyundai, Porsche and Mercedes-Benz, promoted
their digital bona fides and extolled services like Android Auto or Apple
CarPlay that are meant to allow the safer, hands-free use of smartphones in the
car, even though safety experts say such features may be contributing to the
sometimes fatal problem of distracted driving.

Hyundai announced a partnership with Amazon that would enable the South Korean
automaker's cars to be remotely started, and the heater or air-conditioner to be
turned on, by speaking to an Amazon Echo device inside the home. It was only the
latest in a series of car-related apps that Amazon has introduced through Echo
and the Alexa personal assistant. Other apps include one that enables Alexa to
hail Uber rides.

Uber, of course, and other ride-hailing services like Lyft, are potentially big
disrupters of the automakers' conventional business model of selling cars to
individual consumers. And new variants are coming along, including See Jane Go,
which had a booth at the conference. The company addresses a concern of many
women by recruiting only female drivers and accepting only female passengers.

Mark F. Fields, Ford Motor's chief executive, spoke here of the opportunities he
saw in selling vehicles to the ride-sharing industry, including, eventually,
ones that would drive themselves. But optimism requires the car industry to
reimagine itself. Instead of the worldwide automobile industry thinking of
itself as the $2.3 trillion business it is now, Mr. Fields said, it should see
itself as part of the much bigger global transportation industry.

General Motors is already hedging itself in ride hailing, having taken a $500
million stake in Lyft. Under G.M.'s separate Maven car-sharing service, which
offers by-the-hour rental to consumers, the company is also renting cars to Uber
drivers. G.M. considers Maven a way to expose consumers to its various models,
even if the people are not in the market to buy one.

BMW has its own car-sharing venture, ReachNow, which operates in Seattle and
Portland, Ore., and will soon be in Brooklyn. It allows members to drive a BMW
or Mini vehicle for 41 cents a minute of operation.

ReachNow's chief executive, Steve Banfield, in an interview here, compared the
concept to Netflix, the video service that has helped render ownership of DVDs
superfluous. That might seem like a threat to BMW's business of selling cars,
but Mr. Banfield described it as more of a get-acquainted marketing approach.

Some ReachNow members sign up simply for extended test drives of BMW cars like
the electric i3, Mr. Banfield said. And younger members who cannot afford a
vehicle early in their careers can become familiar with BMW's products, making
them more likely to become buyers once their salaries catch up with their
tastes, he said.

For people who do own cars but who would not mind some help paying for them,
there are mobile-app services like Turo, which enable car owners to rent out
their cars. By renting their vehicles for nine days each month, owners could
probably cover their entire car payments and maybe even turn a profit, David
Stewart, Turo's chief business officer, said in a presentation here.

Turo is good news for automakers, Mr. Stewart said, because it might help
someone wary of owning a vehicle to afford to buy one, or to move up to a more
luxurious model as the rental income made it affordable.

But the question of who does or does not own a car now might one day seem a
quaint distinction when cars start driving themselves. And when that time comes,
the companies with the biggest identity crises may be ones like Ferrari,
Lamborghini and Porsche that have persuaded the public to spend big money on the
thrill of taking the wheel.

Detlev von Platen, executive board member for sales and marketing at Porsche,
views it as an evolution.

''Our cars will always be about the driving experience because that's what we
sell -- experiences,'' Mr. von Platen said. ''But we must provide options for
our owners, and self-driving technologies that can be activated when desired
must be considered.''

And a self-driving Porsche might be more than a robotic tram. Imagine
experiencing the throttle, braking and steering inputs of a professional driver
on a racetrack. That could be programmed into the car, said Oliver Blume,
Porsche's chief executive.

Porsche might also experiment with new types of sales or leasing options to
cultivate loyalty. Mr. von Platen said the company might consider a ''flex
lease,'' under which someone leasing a two-seat 718 Cayman would gain access to
a Cayenne S.U.V. for seven days a year, which could be handy for when five seats
are needed.

The other big technology topic was electric vehicles, which all carmakers have
been pursuing as a way to address concerns about the climate, as well as
government-mandated rules and targets for lower emissions and higher fuel
efficiency.

Jaguar announced its I-Pace all-electric S.U.V., a concept car that the company
said would be available in 2018.

And yet the election of Donald J. Trump, a climate-change skeptic who is widely
expected to scale back automotive emission and fuel-efficiency regulations,
could alter the industry's planning for environmentally friendlier cars. The
possible relaxation of those regulations was an undercurrent here.

And the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, which represents a dozen of the
biggest car and light-truck makers, recently wrote to the Trump transition team
urging a reassessment of emissions rules that the group said posed a
''substantial challenge'' to the industry.

Mr. Blume of Porsche said his company would stay on its current technology
track, even if fuel-economy and emissions standards were relaxed.

''When we think of new technology, we don't concern ourselves with political
changes,'' Mr. Blume said. ''We think electrification is a technology of the
future, and we have a responsibility to the environment.''

That debate simply reinforces a characteristic that was fully apparent at
AutoMobility LA: The automotive business is not just about moving vehicles; it's
about moving targets.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/18/automobiles/autoshow/los-angeles-auto-show-dig
ital-future-of-industry.html

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A fiber-carbon chassis made by Divergent, which uses 3-D
printing in its automobile construction, at AutoMobility LA. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JULES BIANCHI)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 19, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

Obama Is Considering Removing N.S.A. Leader

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER, JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS and ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1106 words



HIGHLIGHT: Top officials have urged the president to remove Adm. Michael S.
Rogers, citing concern over his efforts to combat the Islamic State and guard
secrets.


WASHINGTON -- President Obama is considering removing Adm. Michael S. Rogers
from his posts as leader of the National Security Agency and United States Cyber
Command after top officials expressed frustration over the speed at which
Admiral Rogers had moved to combat the Islamic State and over the agency's
repeated loss of closely guarded secrets, administration and intelligence
officials said Saturday.

President-elect Donald J. Trump is considering Admiral Rogers, who is
responsible for surveillance and the growing arsenal of cyberweapons, for a top
post in his administration, including director of national intelligence
overseeing all 16 intelligence agencies. Admiral Rogers met with Mr. Trump on
Thursday, apparently without the White House's knowledge.

The recommendation to remove Admiral Rogers, a career intelligence officer who
was promoted to his posts by the Obama administration two years ago, came last
month from Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter and the current director of
national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr.

Administration and intelligence officials, who insisted on anonymity to detail
the private discussions, said the recommendation that Admiral Rogers be removed
was not related to Mr. Trump's interest in hiring him. Instead, they argued, it
was driven by breaches during Admiral Rogers's tenure at the N.S.A. and his
leadership of the agency.

The White House and the Pentagon declined to comment on Admiral Rogers's fate.
Reached by phone on Saturday afternoon, Admiral Rogers declined to comment.

The effort to force out Admiral Rogers, which was first reported by The
Washington Post, puts Mr. Trump in the position of considering whether to name,
as the man who would brief him on intelligence matters each morning, a four-star
admiral whom the White House is considering relieving of his posts.

It also raises the question of why Mr. Obama would consider firing one of the
nation's top intelligence officers in the last days of his administration.
Admiral Rogers's replacement would not be confirmed until after Mr. Trump takes
over. One senior intelligence official argued that letting word of the effort
leak seemed more about politics or vengeance than about effecting any real
change.

Representative Devin Nunes of California, the chairman of the House Intelligence
Committee and a member of Mr. Trump's transition team, strongly defended Admiral
Rogers. In a letter to Mr. Carter and Mr. Clapper, Mr. Nunes asked them to
testify before his committee to explain why they want to push Mr. Rogers out.
"It's not by accident that Admiral Rogers meets with the president-elect and two
days later this story, which is completely built on lies, appears," Mr. Nunes
said in a short interview.

Mr. Carter and Mr. Clapper had submitted a formal recommendation to the White
House to split the N.S.A., which conducts foreign surveillance and secures
military networks, from the still-new Cyber Command. But there are questions
inside the giant complex at Fort Meade, Md., where the N.S.A. and Cyber Command
are housed, about whether the military cyberunit is ready to survive on its own.
It relies heavily on the talent of the N.S.A., which dates back to the early
1950s.

Mr. Trump, who has begun filling the top echelons of his national security team
with hard-liners, met with Admiral Rogers on Thursday at Trump Tower in New
York.

Senior Defense Department and intelligence officials were surprised that Admiral
Rogers, while on personal leave, had paid a visit to Mr. Trump.

Mr. Carter's first major disagreement with Admiral Rogers dates to the fall of
2015, when he expressed mounting frustration that Cyber Command, which is
responsible for offensive action against adversaries, was not acting
aggressively enough to disrupt the Islamic State's networks in Iraq and Syria.

In the spring, Mr. Carter said for the first time that the United States was
using its cyberarsenal against the Islamic State. But the effort was moving too
slowly for the Pentagon leadership, and Mr. Carter went to Fort Meade several
weeks ago to give Admiral Rogers and his team "a kick in the pants," one
official said.

Top national security officials had also come to see Admiral Rogers as lacking
leadership at a moment of wrenching change for the N.S.A. He took command after
the disclosures of widespread surveillance by Edward J. Snowden, the former
N.S.A. contractor, and the efforts he directed to seal up the agency proved
insufficient, they said.

That perception was underlined by the disclosure in October that the F.B.I. had
secretly arrested a former N.S.A. contractor, Harold T. Martin III, and was
investigating whether he had stolen and disclosed highly classified computer
code developed by the agency to hack into the networks of foreign governments.

Mr. Martin was charged with theft of government property and the unauthorized
removal or retention of classified documents.

Administration officials had planned to relieve Admiral Rogers of his duties
after the election and announce a plan to create separate chains of command for
the N.S.A. and Cyber Command. But the plan, supported by Mr. Carter and Mr.
Clapper, stalled in part because of opposition from Senator John McCain,
Republican of Arizona, who heads the Armed Services Committee.

Under the plan, Cyber Command would remain under the Armed Services Committee's
jurisdiction, but oversight of the N.S.A. would shift to the Senate Intelligence
Committee. Mr. Trump's victory complicated the planning.

On one major issue, Mr. Trump and Admiral Rogers disagree -- quite publicly.

While Mr. Trump has insisted that no one knows whether Russia was responsible
for the hacking of email accounts of the Democratic National Committee and a
range of prominent formal officials, Admiral Rogers has said he has no doubt. He
recently said that "this was not something that was done casually, this was not
something that was done by chance, this was not a target that was selected
purely arbitrarily."

He added, "This was a conscious effort by a nation-state to attempt to achieve a
specific effect."

Coming into the job, Admiral Rogers said one of his top goals was to make sure
that cyberattacks on the United States had consequences for the attackers. In
August, he proposed a series of possible options to respond to the attacks,
which American intelligence officials, in a public statement, said the Kremlin's
leadership had to have been aware of. But the White House rejected the
proposals, fearing that they could start an escalating cyberconflict that the
United States might not be able to win decisively.

Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting from Bedminster, N.J.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 20, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

Anthem-Cigna Proposed Deal Goes to U.S. Federal Court;
The Week Ahead

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 527 words



HIGHLIGHT: What's ahead this week: The Justice Department is challenging the
deal between two of the nation's health largest insurers, saying it would be bad
for customers.


Here's a look at what's coming up this week.

INSURANCE INDUSTRY

Justice Department to dispute health care merger.

The first of two proposed health insurance mega-mergers goes to trial in Federal
District Court for the District of Columbia on Monday. The $48 billion
combination of Anthem and Cigna, two of the nation's largest insurers, is being
challenged by the Justice Department as being bad for consumers. Expect more
than the usual drama: Anthem and Cigna have accused each other of breaching the
merger agreement, and Cigna is viewed as less than enthusiastic about the deal
going through. The case will be followed by a second trial involving the
proposed merger of Aetna and Humana. Reed Abelson

ECONOMY

Draghi to address European Parliament.

Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, will answer questions
on Monday at the European Parliament and will probably be asked about how the
eurozone may be affected by the presidency of Donald J. Trump. The changes in
Washington come as Europe's central bank is still trying to breathe life back
into the slow-growing eurozone economy. Jack Ewing

Aircraft are expected to lift durable goods numbers.

On Wednesday, at 8:30 a.m., the Commerce Department will report data on durable
goods orders in October. Economists are looking for a 1 percent increase, mostly
resulting from higher aircraft orders. Excluding the volatile transportation
category, durable goods orders are expected to inch up 0.2 percentage point. The
manufacturing sector has been uneven in recent months, hurt by a strong dollar
but benefiting a bit from a rebound in oil prices. Economists will be watching
to see which of these trends prevails. Nelson D. Schwartz

Analysts expect flat sales data for new homes.

Later on Wednesday, at 10 a.m., the Commerce Department will release figures for
new home sales in October. Economists estimate the seasonally adjusted annual
rate of sales for last month will come in at 585,000, barely changed from
593,000 in September. While multifamily construction has been weaker, the market
for new single-family homes continues to be robust. Nelson D. Schwartz

Fed remains focused on interest rate increase.

The Federal Reserve's policy-making committee last met before the presidential
election, so the account of the early November meeting that the Fed will publish
on Wednesday may seem like a time capsule from a different era. But the account,
which is expected to portray Fed officials as increasingly eager to raise
interest rates, remains relevant because the Fed's short-term plans have not
changed. The economy is still growing, asset prices are still rising and the Fed
is still getting ready to raise its benchmark interest rate at its next meeting
in mid-December. Binyamin Appelbaum

RETAIL INDUSTRY

Retailers struggle to create Black Friday excitement.

Retailers across the United States have been promoting their sales for Black
Friday, traditionally one of the busiest shopping days of the year. But as sales
begin earlier and earlier in the season, stores are having an increasingly
difficult time luring shoppers out of their warm beds on a cold November day.
Rachel Abrams

PHOTO

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cyber Monday Sales

BYLINE: By ELAINE GLUSAC

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; CHASING THE DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 321 words


Take a vacation break between clicks on Amazon or Etsy on Nov. 28, a.k.a. Cyber
Monday, the biggest internet shopping day of the year. Hotels and resorts,
including the following, commonly hold Cyber Monday sales, discounting future
stays.

The Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas will hold its holiday sale from Black Friday, Nov.
25, through Cyber Monday, offering a second night free on a one-night booking
over select dates November through February. Rooms start at $150 a night.

Appealing to beachgoers, the Copamarina Beach Resort & Spa in southwest Puerto
Rico will sell rooms Black Friday through Cyber Monday starting at $129 a night
for stays between Jan. 2 and April 30 (there are some blackout dates). The
resort requires a two-night minimum stay.

In Miami, four Victor Hotels, a small collection of boutique hotels in South
Beach, will offer rates at 40 percent off on bookings made Nov. 25 through 28 on
travel through June, with a few blackout dates over the December holidays.
Discounted rooms will start at $79 a night at the Casa Victoria Orchid and the
Hotel Ocean.

Plan spring break in Costa Rica, where Nayara Springs resort in Arenal Volcano
National Park is offering 35 percent off four-night stays from Jan. 1 to April
1. The discounted price of $1,950 includes daily breakfast, yoga classes and
free minibar items.

In the wine country of Napa Valley, Silverado Resort & Spa will offer rooms at
30 percent off and include a $50 resort credit on bookings made Nov. 25 through
28 for travel Nov. 25 to March 31. The deal is also offered April 1 to Oct. 31
on Sundays through Thursdays only. Rates start at $159 a night with the
discount.

Apparently, it's never too early to think about baseball in Boston, where the
Hotel Commonwealth will hold a 127-minute sale on Cyber Monday, which is 127
days from baseball's opening day. Beginning at 1:27 p.m. on Nov. 28, rooms will
cost $127 a night for stays until April 3.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/20/travel/travel-discounts-for-cyber
-monday.html

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: View at the Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE
COSMOPOLITAN OF LAS VEGAS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Top Officials Urge Obama to Remove N.S.A. Leader

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS and ERIC SCHMITT; Michael S.
Schmidt contributed reporting from Bedminster, N.J.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1119 words


WASHINGTON -- President Obama is considering removing Adm. Michael S. Rogers
from his posts as leader of the National Security Agency and United States Cyber
Command after top officials expressed frustration over the speed at which
Admiral Rogers had moved to combat the Islamic State and over the agency's
repeated loss of closely guarded secrets, administration and intelligence
officials said Saturday.

President-elect Donald J. Trump is considering Admiral Rogers, who is
responsible for surveillance and the growing arsenal of cyberweapons, for a top
post in his administration, including director of national intelligence
overseeing all 16 intelligence agencies. Admiral Rogers met with Mr. Trump on
Thursday, apparently without the White House's knowledge.

The recommendation to remove Admiral Rogers, a career intelligence officer who
was promoted to his posts by the Obama administration two years ago, came last
month from Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter and the current director of
national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr.

Administration and intelligence officials, who insisted on anonymity to detail
the private discussions, said the recommendation that Admiral Rogers be removed
was not related to Mr. Trump's interest in hiring him. Instead, they argued, it
was driven by breaches during Admiral Rogers's tenure at the N.S.A. and his
leadership of the agency.

The White House and the Pentagon declined to comment on Admiral Rogers's fate.
Reached by phone on Saturday afternoon, Admiral Rogers declined to comment.

The effort to force out Admiral Rogers, which was first reported by The
Washington Post, puts Mr. Trump in the position of considering whether to name,
as the man who would brief him on intelligence matters each morning, a four-star
admiral whom the White House is considering relieving of his posts.

It also raises the question of why Mr. Obama would consider firing one of the
nation's top intelligence officers in the last days of his administration.
Admiral Rogers's replacement would not be confirmed until after Mr. Trump takes
over. One senior intelligence official argued that letting word of the effort
leak seemed more about politics or vengeance than about effecting any real
change.

Representative Devin Nunes of California, the chairman of the House Intelligence
Committee and a member of Mr. Trump's transition team, strongly defended Admiral
Rogers. In a letter to Mr. Carter and Mr. Clapper, Mr. Nunes asked them to
testify before his committee to explain why they want to push Mr. Rogers out.
''It's not by accident that Admiral Rogers meets with the president-elect and
two days later this story, which is completely built on lies, appears,'' Mr.
Nunes said in a short interview.

Mr. Carter and Mr. Clapper had submitted a formal recommendation to the White
House to split the N.S.A., which conducts foreign surveillance and secures
military networks, from the still-new Cyber Command. But there are questions
inside the giant complex at Fort Meade, Md., where the N.S.A. and Cyber Command
are housed, about whether the military cyberunit is ready to survive on its own.
It relies heavily on the talent of the N.S.A., which dates back to the early
1950s.

Mr. Trump, who has begun filling the top echelons of his national security team
with hard-liners, met with Admiral Rogers on Thursday at Trump Tower in New
York.

Senior Defense Department and intelligence officials were surprised that Admiral
Rogers, while on personal leave, had paid a visit to Mr. Trump.

Mr. Carter's first major disagreement with Admiral Rogers dates to the fall of
2015, when he expressed mounting frustration that Cyber Command, which is
responsible for offensive action against adversaries, was not acting
aggressively enough to disrupt the Islamic State's networks in Iraq and Syria.

In the spring, Mr. Carter said for the first time that the United States was
using its cyberarsenal against the Islamic State. But the effort was moving too
slowly for the Pentagon leadership, and Mr. Carter went to Fort Meade several
weeks ago to give Admiral Rogers and his team ''a kick in the pants,'' one
official said.

Top national security officials had also come to see Admiral Rogers as lacking
leadership at a moment of wrenching change for the N.S.A. He took command after
the disclosures of widespread surveillance by Edward J. Snowden, the former
N.S.A. contractor, and the efforts he directed to seal up the agency proved
insufficient, they said.

That perception was underlined by the disclosure in October that the F.B.I. had
secretly arrested a former N.S.A. contractor, Harold T. Martin III, and was
investigating whether he had stolen and disclosed highly classified computer
code developed by the agency to hack into the networks of foreign governments.

Mr. Martin was charged with theft of government property and the unauthorized
removal or retention of classified documents.

Administration officials had planned to relieve Admiral Rogers of his duties
after the election and announce a plan to create separate chains of command for
the N.S.A. and Cyber Command. But the plan, supported by Mr. Carter and Mr.
Clapper, stalled in part because of opposition from Senator John McCain,
Republican of Arizona, who heads the Armed Services Committee.

Under the plan, Cyber Command would remain under the Armed Services Committee's
jurisdiction, but oversight of the N.S.A. would shift to the Senate Intelligence
Committee. Mr. Trump's victory complicated the planning.

On one major issue, Mr. Trump and Admiral Rogers disagree -- quite publicly.

While Mr. Trump has insisted that no one knows whether Russia was responsible
for the hacking of email accounts of the Democratic National Committee and a
range of prominent formal officials, Admiral Rogers has said he has no doubt. He
recently said that ''this was not something that was done casually, this was not
something that was done by chance, this was not a target that was selected
purely arbitrarily.''

He added, ''This was a conscious effort by a nation-state to attempt to achieve
a specific effect.''

Coming into the job, Admiral Rogers said one of his top goals was to make sure
that cyberattacks on the United States had consequences for the attackers. In
August, he proposed a series of possible options to respond to the attacks,
which American intelligence officials, in a public statement, said the Kremlin's
leadership had to have been aware of. But the White House rejected the
proposals, fearing that they could start an escalating cyberconflict that the
United States might not be able to win decisively.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/20/us/politics/obama-remove-nsa-leader-michael-ro
gers.html

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 23, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Are You Ready for the Biggest Shopping Weekend of the Year?;
Scouting Report

BYLINE: ALISON S. COHN

SECTION: FASHION

LENGTH: 497 words



HIGHLIGHT: Make it meaningful at shops that are donating to good causes, get a
free ride with Uber for shopping on Small Business Saturday, and more.


Openings and Events

Here comes the biggest shopping weekend of the year. This Thanksgiving, Apiece
Apart aims to make the whole experience more meaningful by recruiting 10
women-led brands to donate 5 percent of total sales - from Black Friday to Cyber
Monday - to Planned Parenthood. Support the cause from the comfort of your couch
by purchasing a wrap-style blanket coat ($472.50) from the Apiece Apart website,
or head to Rachel Comey, Creatures of Comfort and Maryam Nassir Zadeh if you're
out and about in the city. At apieceapart.com. Rachel Comey is at 95 Crosby
Street, Creatures of Comfort is at 205 Mulberry Street, Maryam Nassir Zadeh is
at 123 Norfolk Street.

The jewelry label Mateo New York will open a NoLIta boutique on Black Friday
where you'll find lovely geometries like suspended diamond circular earrings in
14-karat gold ($2,050). At 244 Elizabeth Street.

That same day, the architecturally inspired outerwear company the Arrivals will
open a pop-up for the 3D-printed homewares brand OTHR. A limited-edition design
in rose gold or silver that functions as zipper pull, key ring or pendant ($150)
is among the offerings. At 39\xC2 Crosby Street.

And the organic bath and body label Jaboneria Marianella, founded by the artist
David Foote and his mother, Marianella Febres-Cordero, will open a pop-up at
Gansevoort Market. Mr. Foote will be painting gift boxes filled with hand wash,
body lotion and soaps ($74) for weekend shoppers. At 353 West 14th Street.

On Friday and Saturday, the Gilt Shop in Saks Off 5th will offer special
doorbusters at up to 80 percent off, including a John Varvatos silk dotted tie
($29, originally $145). At 125 East 57th Street.

Ted Baker will be offering 50 percent discounts all weekend on party-ready bits
like a lace-bodice dress with a full skirt ($259, originally $519). At 595 Fifth
Avenue.

To help New York City residents shop local on Small Business Saturday, Uber is
offering free UberPOOL rides (up to $20) for American Express cardholders. There
will be a walking tour of Union Square at 2 p.m. with discounts - for example,
25 percent off a vegan puffer jacket ($345) and other goods at the men's wear
stalwart Rothman's - and a photo scavenger hunt in the Flatiron nabe.

On Giving Tuesday, the designer resale site Vestiaire Collective has teamed up
with a number of designers on a Designer Archive Charity Collection sale. Tome
will offer a white cotton shirt with decorative bow (about $110) and Kenzo a
bright yellow Mini Kali cross-body bag (about $240), with all the proceeds going
to the designers' chosen charities, Freedom for All and the Blue Marine
Foundation, respectively. At vestiairecollective.com.

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and
Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.

Send shopping suggestions tobrowsing@nytimes.com

Related Articles


     ·    Openings All Over Town: Coach, Moncler, Canada Goose and More
     ·    Nike to Open a Huge Store in the Heart of SoHo


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 23, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

A Less Frenzied Black Friday as Millennials Opt to Stay In

BYLINE: RACHEL ABRAMS

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1128 words



HIGHLIGHT: Millennials go online for their shopping, leaving a somewhat older
crowd at the stores. Discounters like dollar stores may benefit.


If you're in the retail business in the United States, you probably really care
about these two things: millennials and Black Friday.

But more and more, these two big drivers of the industry don't mix inside stores
-- a dynamic that is reshaping one of the country's biggest shopping days.

Young people of all kinds, a coveted group for retailers because of their
free-spending ways, are increasingly turning to their computers and phones to do
their holiday shopping, spreading out more widely the days they open their
wallets. Crowds on Friday, the unofficial kickoff of the holiday shopping
season, will tilt older than a few years ago, and also, it appears, more
cautious with their money.

As a result, the mix of retailers with high expectations for the day is changing
quickly, skewing more toward dollar stores and discount retailers and toward
essential products like food and cookware. And it is also making the day itself
less and less important for the industry over all.

"As big as the event or the weekend has become, it's substantially muted for the
fact that all of the people are buying online," said Mark A. Cohen, director of
retail studies at Columbia Business School.

A decade ago, the day after Thanksgiving accounted for 6 percent of all shopping
for the holiday season, according to Craig Johnson, the president of Customer
Growth Partners, a research firm. This year, he expects shoppers to spend $27
billion on Black Friday, but that will account for only 4.3 percent of the
spending this season.

Over all, people are expected to spend $632 billion this holiday season, up from
$607 billion last year, the company estimates. But for the first time, more than
half that growth will come from online shopping, Mr. Johnson said.

At the same time, there is a distinct division in who is shopping online. More
than half of baby boomers surveyed said they would do none of their holiday
shopping online, according to a study by CivicScience, a market research
company. Nearly 40 percent of those age 18 to 34 -- the group known as
millennials -- will do most or all of their shopping on the web, and another 35
percent said they would shop both online and in-store.

That shift to online shopping has put more pressure on stores to offer deals
good enough to bring people out into the cold. Less than a quarter of Americans
plan to shop in stores on Black Friday, down from 28 percent two years ago,
according to a survey by Bankrate.com, a website that tracks savings products.

Televisions, headphones and electronics, as always, are expected to be a big
draw at big-box stores like Walmart and Target. Department stores that offer big
discounts, like Macy's, will remain a top destination during the weekend, too.
Macy's website is blanketed with its Black Friday promotions, with ads for
everything from coats to Apple watches to blenders. "Black Friday Starts Now!"
declares a big banner at the top.

But discount and dollar stores, which generally haven't been big draws on Black
Friday, are also expecting strong sales. Over all, dollar stores will experience
one of the biggest rises in turnout this year over last year, according to a
survey of more than 2,000 adults by the data company Nielsen.

Phillip Dengler, the co-owner of the website BestBlackFriday.com, which monitors
the annual sales, said he had seen more of a push from low-budget stores this
year. He pointed to the discount chain Dollar General as an example: The company
has extended its hours, and Mr. Dengler said the chain had made more of an
effort to get its Black Friday circulars online and in front of customers.

"When you think about Black Friday, you don't think about Dollar General, you
think about Walmart and Target and Amazon," Mr. Dengler said. "They're trying a
little bit more."

Discounters like dollar stores and so-called off-price stores like T. J. Maxx
and Ross also are different in another way from rival retailers: They have
little to no e-commerce presence. That has made them somewhat immune to certain
industry pressures, and could give them greater incentive to entice people into
stores.

"I think e-commerce has allowed for Black Friday to start whenever Amazon wants
it to start," said Simeon Siegel, an analyst with Nomura. For the last few
years, Amazon has offered Prime Day, its own annual one-day shopping bonanza.
"That doesn't exist for T. J. and Ross."

Another trend working in favor of discount and dollar stores is the rising
popularity of food and kitchen items, like mixers and cookware, as holiday
gifts. That's in part because of new fads like "Friendsgiving" and "Friendsmas,"
when, you guessed it, friends rather than family get together for a holiday
meal.

"As a result, food is going to be more central to the holidays than ever
before," said Jordan Rost, vice president for consumer insights at Nielsen, in
an email.

Walmart, for example, said it would offer some specials on kitchen appliances
for under $10, as well as deals on nonstick cooking sets and griddles.

For the foodies interested in opening their wallets a little more, there are
also plenty of pricier options, both online and in the stores: Harry & David,
the maker of gift baskets, is offering Black Friday deals on its arrangements of
cheeses and fruits. Neiman Marcus's notoriously opulent holiday offerings
included collard greens for $66, before they sold out. (If you missed it,
there's also Oma's Cheesy Potatoes for $76, plus $18 shipping.)

More generally, though, stores at the higher end of the income spectrum -- like
Neiman Marcus and Bloomingdale's, for instance -- have continued to more quietly
promote their Black Friday sales.

"I think the low-end consumer is still looking for the best deal, but I think
the higher-end consumers are looking for the best products and the best
services," said Liz Dunn, the founder and chief executive of Talmage Advisors, a
consumer and retailing consulting firm.

"I think it's been a consistent theme for many, many years," she said, "that
these high-end stores don't necessarily want to participate in the promotion."

PHOTOS: A T. J. Maxx in New York. Black Friday is expected to provide a smaller
percentage of holiday shopping this year, as more shopping goes online. (B1); T.
J. Maxx and other discounters differ from their retailing rivals in that they
have little or no online business. That may provide them with greater incentive
to draw shoppers into their stores. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRYAN THOMAS FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (B4)

Related Articles


     ·    How to Save Money (and Hassles) on Your Black Friday Shopping
     ·    Connections to a Cause: The Millennial Way of Charity
     ·    Are You Ready for the Biggest Shopping Weekend of the Year?
     ·    Travel Discounts for Cyber Monday
     ·    Minding the Generation Gap: Investigating Media Portrayals of
          Millennials and 'Gen Z'


LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 24, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

Rangers Hit the Road the Day After Thanksgiving, as Usual

BYLINE: DAVE CALDWELL

SECTION: SPORTS; hockey

LENGTH: 856 words



HIGHLIGHT: Since NBC began presenting an N.H.L. game billed as the Thanksgiving
Showdown each Black Friday, the Rangers have appeared in all but the first one.


GREENBURGH, N.Y. - After an unsightly home loss to the Penguins on Thanksgiving
eve, the Rangers were back on the ice for practice at noon sharp on Thursday,
with a flight to Philadelphia and a team dinner at their hotel to follow.
Thanksgiving felt like a normal work day for the Rangers - just as it has been
for the last few years.

The Rangers will play the Flyers on Friday afternoon in what NBC, which is
televising the game nationally, has called a Thanksgiving Showdown.

The game will be the fourth in four years and the ninth in 10 years that the
Rangers will have played on the road on the day after Thanksgiving.

"This is my 12th year in the N.H.L., right?" Rangers goaltender Henrik Lundqvist
said. "Well, I haven't been home for many Thanksgivings."

Lundqvist, who is from Sweden, added: "I didn't grow up with Thanksgiving, and
it's wonderful, but it's not something I'm used to. To me, it's like a normal
game. Once the game starts, I don't think about what day it is. For the most
part, it's all a blur, whether it's on a Friday or Monday."

Lundqvist said he would have other, more pressing matters on his mind - in
particular, playing much better than he did Wednesday, when he was pulled in the
second period after allowing four goals on 17 shots in a 6-1 loss to Pittsburgh
at Madison Square Garden.

The Rangers fell to 14-6-1 but are still in first place in the Metropolitan
Division, 2 points ahead of the Penguins. Lundqvist may want to win every game,
but he especially wants to bounce back against the Flyers (9-9-3) in
Philadelphia, where the crowd has frequently taunted him.

But more important, the Rangers want to avoid a replay of last season. They got
off to a 16-3-2 start but lost to Montreal, 5-1, the day before Thanksgiving at
the Garden and then fell to Boston on Black Friday. The Montreal game kicked off
a stretch in which the Rangers won just three of 14 games.

"It's a big stage, and there's going to be a lot of people watching on TV," Ryan
McDonagh, the Rangers captain, said of the Flyers game. "But in the bigger
picture, it's us trying to respond to a game where we didn't play well."

No matter what, NBC loves presenting the Rangers on Black Friday. This is the
fifth Thanksgiving Showdown, and the Rangers have appeared in all but the first
- a game between the Detroit Red Wings and Boston Bruins in 2011.

According to NBC, the Thanksgiving Showdown games have averaged 1.334 million
viewers, about 6 percent more than the average of 1.260 million for a typical
N.H.L. afternoon game on the network.

Jon Miller, the president of programming for NBC Sports and the NBC Sports
Network, said the network could promote the game heavily during programming such
as the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade and the N.F.L. game played Thanksgiving
night.

"The Rangers are an Original Six team, play in the nation's largest media
market, and have graciously made themselves available to play nearly every
year," Miller said. "It's been a short yet fruitful tradition for all involved."

The tradition has been around longer for the Rangers than it has for NBC.

The Rangers played on Black Friday five years in a row starting in 2007. They
beat the Florida Panthers in two of three games, lost once at Tampa Bay, and
then won at Washington on the same day the Red Wings and the Bruins met in the
first Thanksgiving Showdown in 2011.

Because of a lockout, no games were played on Thanksgiving weekend in 2012. But
the Rangers resumed their post-holiday trips starting with a visit to Boston in
2013. They have alternated playing in Philadelphia and Boston since.

Chris Kreider, who is in his fourth full N.H.L. season, said he felt "benignly
indifferent" to playing the day after Thanksgiving. "It's hockey season," he
said, smiling. "You play hockey."

The game against the Flyers will actually be the first of 11 games played that
day. Two games were on the N.H.L. schedule Thursday night, although both were
played in Canada, where Thanksgiving was celebrated Oct. 10.

The Thanksgiving Showdown will also be the first of 14 regular-season games
carried exclusively on NBC instead of the NBC Sports Network. The Rangers will
appear in three more: on Jan. 22 and March 12 at Detroit, and on Feb. 19 at the
Garden against Washington.

That made Thursday's practice the start of an important - and highly visible -
period of the season for the Rangers. So the team planned to have a "great meal"
together Thursday, McDonagh said. "We're all a family, anyway, working hard
together," he said.

After Friday, the Rangers will have played 13 of 15 games they had scheduled in
November. But this year, unlike the last three, they get Saturday off, so
McDonagh said the Rangers can enjoy a slightly delayed Thanksgiving with their
actual relatives.

"We'd like to be with our families," forward J. T. Miller said of the holiday.
"But we're with each other all year, so we're used to it."

Related Articles


     ·    Penguins Pay Back the Rangers With a Rout
     ·    Vegas Golden Knights, N.H.L.'s New Team, Take Their Place on the Strip
     ·    The Penguins' Steady Ascent Shows the Way for the Rest of the N.H.L.
     ·    Off to Flying Start, Patrik Laine Lifts Spirits in Winnipeg


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 24, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

Black Friday Shopping: Tales From the Front Lines

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1292 words



HIGHLIGHT: We're capturing the scene with reporters around the country showing
what it looks and feels like at American shopping malls, retailers and discount
stores.


The unofficial start of the holiday shopping season began this week, when many
national retailers opened their doors and offered major sales.

We're capturing the experience with reporters and photographers around the
country, showing what it looks and feels like at American shopping malls,
retailers and discount stores. You'll also find:

[#x25a0] Stories of shoppers and what brought them out to the stores.

[#x25a0] Shopping deals from The Wirecutter, a product review and recommendation
site owned by The New York Times Company.

[#x25a0] Shopping by the numbers: history and facts about Black Friday, as the
day after Thanksgiving is often called.

A Mix of Old and New

After working the overnight shift at Old Navy on 34th Street in Manhattan,
Walter Reinoso hit the Foot Locker store at Union Square to get a pair of Air
Jordan 3S True Blues he had been waiting for. His approach mixed the modern
(ordering online) with the past (showing up in a store to get them).

"They originally came out in 1988 and are really hard to find. I had to reserve
them on the app. I haven't bought a pair of Jordans in a very long time. This
silhouette is iconic," Mr. Reinoso said while proudly holding up the size 9\xC2
midtops. "I like that these are the original colors: white, red and blue. I got
them for $249. They are usually much more."

Describing himself as a shoe enthusiast rather than a guy with a shoe fetish,
Mr. Reinoso, 19, of East New York, Brooklyn, along with his friend, Cindy Ortiz,
18, of Bushwick, Brooklyn, were heading to the store Dover Market to check out
more footwear, preferably pairs of Vans and Converse. Mr. Reinoso had some more
cash to spend -- $300 in his pocket -- but said he would rather not spend it
all. "I don't want to," he said, "but may be tempted."

-- RUTH BASHINSKY

A Lasting Memory

LAS VEGAS -- For some, Black Friday deals hold a more aesthetic appeal. At Tatt
Life Studios, a tattoo parlor a few short miles from the Las Vegas Strip,
customers have called weeks in advance to book appointments to add to their body
art.

"Tattoos can be pricey," Justin Smith, Tatt Life Studios owner, who is known as
Smitty, said. "This gives our customers a great chance to get some really
spectacular work done for a mind-blowing price."

He has held a successful Black Friday deal since 2013 to capitalize on the
holiday spending habits of consumers.

"It's been a great way to continue business during our slow months," said Mr.
Smith, who has worked as a tattoo artist for nearly a decade. "We have a lot of
loyal customers who wait for this deal."

The process, and subsequent bonding experience, of getting a tattoo can create a
lasting impression on customers.

"Black Friday, for us, is more than an exciting retail day, it's more of a way
of giving back to our clients," Mr. Smith said. "The unique thing about getting
a tattoo, when you share that with someone as an artist, is that they are with
you forever."

Mr. Smith's first appointment of the day, Ryan Wills, has his Black Friday
mapped out. After scouring electronics stores for audio car-system deals and
crashing a few big-box stores for door buster sales, Mr. Wills plans to spend a
few Black Friday hours in the black padded chair at Tatt Life to finish his
extensive "Deadpool"-inspired canvas.

"I follow Tatt Life Studios on Facebook and couldn't resist the chance to get my
leg piece finished," Mr. Wills, a 27-year-old mechanic, said. "I have several
Marvel tattoos on my body including an Iron Man piece as well as a 'Guardians of
the Galaxy' collage, both done by Smitty."

-- KIMBERLEY MCGEE

Wedding Shopping in Texas

Sierra Sproul, a 24-year-old kindergarten teacher in Austin, Tex., had a special
incentive to take advantage of Black Friday discounts at her local boot
retailer: her coming Western-themed wedding on April 8.

"I'm very excited," she said, beaming as she and her mother wrapped up a
purchase of brown floral Corral-brand boots (which came to $199 after a 20
percent discount).

In all, the pair spent more than $500 at Cavender's Boot City in north Austin
after adding a $180 hat and $159 boots for her fiancé, Shane McPherson, whom Ms.
Sproul lovingly described as "very country."

She and her mother said they had purposely waited for Black Friday to offset
wedding costs with hefty discounts.

"If we can get boots for a percentage off, that's good because they don't go on
sale very often," Ms. Sproul said.

Many of the other customers in the store were looking at western items as likely
Christmas gifts, according to Robert Garcia, the store's manager.

The business sent out "doorbuster" coupons valid for shoppers arriving between 7
a.m. and 11 a.m., targeting previous customers and those who lived nearby.

-- DAVID MONTGOMERY

By the Numbers: $27 Billion

Consumers will spend $27 billion this Friday, accounting for 4.7 percent of all
holiday shopping, according to the research firm Customer Growth Partners. That
may sound like a lot, but Black Friday's importance has shrunken over the years:
A decade ago, the day accounted for 6 percent of sales.

Where Are the Hatchimals?

FREEHOLD, N.J. -- Families packed the Walmart here Thursday evening, fliers in
hand and a mission in mind. For many, the targets were similar: Samsung Smart
TVs, PlayStation 4 and one of this year's must-have toys, the furry and
interactive Hatchimal.

"I was here at 3:30 and I'm just mad because I didn't get my Hatchimal," said
Amalia Teixeira, 52, a retired police officer from Manalapan. "Now my daughter
will have to wait till January."

Sunny Singh, 30, an assistant manager, confirmed that the store sold out of the
eight or so Hatchimals in stock early in the day. The toy is a robotic bird that
hatches out of an egg. The price starts at about $60.

Still, Ms. Teixeira said the crowds this year seemed lighter and less frenzied.
While foot traffic was fairly heavy, it was also orderly.

"Last year, we walked out with about $2,000 worth of stuff -- this year it's
only about $700," Ms. Teixiera said.

Several other shoppers also noticed a slower pace than they had predicted.

"It's less intense than I was expecting, and this is the busy Walmart in the
area," said Martine Similien, 31, of Freehold, which is about 30 miles east of
Trenton.

"I expected the mob scenes from the commercials," said Patricia Davis, 34, of
Freehold.

-- LAUREN HERSTIK

Shopping Story: A First-Timer

NAME: Barb Mulkey

AGE: 59

LOCATION: Seminole Towne Center, Sanford, Fla.

BACK STORY: "It's my first Black Friday shopping ever," Ms. Mulkey said as she
strolled through Macy's, her arms laden with loot. "My neighbor talked me into
it." In previous years, reports of "crazy people" storming through retail
establishments had dissuaded her from participating, she said. As it turned out,
she got to see some craziness herself this time. In another store, Ms. Mulkey, a
middle-school math teacher, and her neighbor, Kathy Van Singel, an
orthodontist's assistant, had been loading poinsettias into a shopping cart
when, their attention diverted, someone made off with the cart, flowers and all.
There were no more on the shelf. "And then I became one of those nuts," Ms.
Mulkey said. "We ended up finding some more somewhere else, so we got our
poinsettias. But some woman asked me to reach a box for her, and I said, 'You're
on your own, lady.'"

-- NICK MADIGAN

Looking for a Deal? The Wirecutter Has You Covered

As Brian X. Chen reminds us, the overwhelming majority of Black Friday deals are
duds. But there are still some diamonds in the haystack. The Wirecutter is
sorting out the good deals from the bad, and highlighting them in a running
Twitter feed.

Related Articles


     ·    Black Friday Deal or Dud? How to Shop Smart This Holiday Season
     ·    A Less Frenzied Black Friday as Millennials Opt to Stay In
     ·    How Not to Overpay on Black Friday? Let the Web Be Your Guide


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Are You Ready for the Biggest Shopping Weekend of the Year?

BYLINE: By ALISON S. COHN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Style Desk; SCOUTING REPORT; Pg.

LENGTH: 482 words


Openings and Events

Here comes the biggest shopping weekend of the year. This Thanksgiving, Apiece
Apart aims to make the whole experience more meaningful by recruiting 10
women-led brands to donate 5 percent of total sales -- from Black Friday to
Cyber Monday -- to Planned Parenthood. Support the cause from the comfort of
your couch by purchasing a wrap-style blanket coat ($472.50) from the Apiece
Apart website, or head to Rachel Comey, Creatures of Comfort and Maryam Nassir
Zadeh if you're out and about in the city. At apieceapart.com. Rachel Comey is
at 95 Crosby Street, Creatures of Comfort is at 205 Mulberry Street, Maryam
Nassir Zadeh is at 123 Norfolk Street.

The jewelry label Mateo New York will open a NoLIta boutique on Black Friday
where you'll find lovely geometries like suspended diamond circular earrings in
14-karat gold ($2,050). At 244 Elizabeth Street.

That same day, the architecturally inspired outerwear company the Arrivals will
open a pop-up for the 3D-printed homewares brand OTHR. A limited-edition design
in rose gold or silver that functions as zipper pull, key ring or pendant ($150)
is among the offerings. At 39½ Crosby Street.

And the organic bath and body label Jaboneria Marianella, founded by the artist
David Foote and his mother, Marianella Febres-Cordero, will open a pop-up at
Gansevoort Market. Mr. Foote will be painting gift boxes filled with hand wash,
body lotion and soaps ($74) for weekend shoppers. At 353 West 14th Street.

On Friday and Saturday, the Gilt Shop in Saks Off 5th will offer special
doorbusters at up to 80 percent off, including a John Varvatos silk dotted tie
($29, originally $145). At 125 East 57th Street.

Ted Baker will be offering 50 percent discounts all weekend on party-ready bits
like a lace-bodice dress with a full skirt ($259, originally $519). At 595 Fifth
Avenue.

To help New York City residents shop local on Small Business Saturday, Uber is
offering free UberPOOL rides (up to $20) for American Express cardholders. There
will be a walking tour of Union Square at 2 p.m. with discounts -- for example,
25 percent off a vegan puffer jacket ($345) and other goods at the men's wear
stalwart Rothman's -- and a photo scavenger hunt in the Flatiron nabe.

On Giving Tuesday, the designer resale site Vestiaire Collective has teamed up
with a number of designers on a Designer Archive Charity Collection sale. Tome
will offer a white cotton shirt with decorative bow (about $110) and Kenzo a
bright yellow Mini Kali cross-body bag (about $240), with all the proceeds going
to the designers' chosen charities, Freedom for All and the Blue Marine
Foundation, respectively. At vestiairecollective.com.

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and
Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.

Send shopping suggestions tobrowsing@nytimes.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/23/fashion/thanksgiving-shopping-black-friday-sma
ll-business-saturday-cyber-monday.html

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 25, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

The Playlist: New Songs From Prince and Garth Brooks, if You Can Find Them;
Playlist

BYLINE: JON PARELES, JON CARAMANICA and NATE CHINEN

SECTION: ARTS; music

LENGTH: 1709 words



HIGHLIGHT: The first drop from Prince's Vault arrives on a new anthology; plus
hear 11 more notable soundtracks, renditions of the national anthem, live sets
and more.


Every Friday, pop critics for The New York Times weigh in on the week's most
notable new songs and videos -- and anything else that strikes them as
intriguing. You can listen to this playlist on Spotify here. Like this Playlist?
Let us know at theplaylist@nytimes.com, and sign up for our Louder newsletter
(coming soon!) here.

Prince, 'Moonbeam Levels'

There's one glimmer from the Vault, the huge repository of unreleased Prince
songs, on the new anthology "Prince 4Ever" -- and true to Prince's custom, it's
not on streaming services. The song is "Moonbeam Levels," which Prince recorded
for his 1982 album, "1999," but repeatedly shelved. Prince's rejects would be
other songwriters' prizes; Elvis Costello performed "Moonbeam Levels," which had
emerged as a bootleg, at a 2013 Prince tribute concert. It's one of Prince's
brilliantly eccentric ballads, a little bit "Pop Life" and a little bit "Purple
Rain" but distinct from both, with a wily, chromatically meandering verse and a
stately if inscrutable chorus: "Please send all your moonbeam levels to me." The
lyrics depict an uncertain seeker who eventually resolves to "fight 4 perfect
love," and now they're a memorial to Prince; the end of the chorus changes along
the way from "I'm looking for a better place to die" to "He don't really want to
die." JON PARELES

Aretha Franklin, 'The Star-Spangled Banner'

[Video: Aretha Franklin National Anthem Watch on YouTube.]

At the Thanksgiving Day Lions-Vikings football game, Aretha Franklin took the
national anthem to church and kept it there for four lavishly unhurried minutes.
The instrumental lineup -- Ms. Franklin on piano backed by an organist -- should
have been a tipoff that deep gospel was in store. This wasn't a song to get out
of the way before the game could start. This would be an anthem treated like a
classic spiritual, taking the time to contemplate every word and every phrase
with deep concentration and improvisational abandon. Ms. Franklin made the song
a patient, circuitous, ultimately spectacular ascent, from a husky,
inward-looking start to an airborne finale, through husky assurances and bluesy
sufferings, through grainy determination and powerful purity. The last line of
the verse is a question -- "Does that star-spangled banner yet wave?" -- but Ms.
Franklin turned it into a flat-out affirmation: "It is the land of the free, the
free!" she sang, "We are the home of the brave!" J.P.

Garth Brooks, 'Ask Me How I Know'

[Video: "Ask Me How I Know" (Garth Brooks Cover) Watch on YouTube.]

Of Garth Brooks's many modes, perhaps his most convincing -- in this, the late
middle of his career -- is dad mode. There's something in the way he declaims:
it connotes certainty, sympathy and resignation. This approach is at its most
intense on "Ask Me How I Know," from his strong new album, "Gunslinger," which
in the hands of a lesser singer would be a scold, but is instead a reassuring
arm around the shoulder: "And when you start to fall, you hung on to your
pride/Start building up your walls and never let her get inside/You'll push her
away, 'cause that's all you know how to do."

Mr. Brooks is a dad in more ways than one: Up until recently, he has been a
streaming denier, and when he finally caved, it was via an exclusive arrangement
with Amazon Music. But "Gunslinger" is only available as a download right now,
so to hear this song, you can buy it, or listen to a very fine cover of it by
Jim Gegner, the only version currently available on YouTube. JON CARAMANICA

'Unstoppable,' by Lin-Manuel Miranda ('Moana' Outtake)

[Video: Lin-Manuel Miranda - "Unstoppable" (From "Moana"/Outtake/Audio Only)
Watch on YouTube.]

If you're spending any time with young family members this holiday weekend,
there's a decent chance you'll get a taste of "Moana,"the new animated Disney
film. Its soundtrack features songs by Lin-Manuel Miranda. (We'll probably be
hearing "How Far I'll Go," the movie's heart-tugging centerpiece, for months and
years to come.) But there were also a few tunes that didn't make the final cut,
and you can hear them on the deluxe edition of the original motion picture
soundtrack. A demo called "Unstoppable" tells the legend of Maui, the Polynesian
demigod, in a spoken-word cadence that can now only be described as Hamiltonian:
"Abandoned by his parents and raised by the gods/Who could see he was destined
for greatness," Mr. Miranda begins, against a polyrhythmic clatter of gourds and
log drums. NATE CHINEN

The Planet Earth II Playlists

The official soundtrack for "Planet Earth II," the visually stunning BBC nature
documentary, consists of a dramatic orchestral score by Hans Zimmer, Jacob Shea
and Jasha Klebe. (It was recently released as a double album, with track titles
-- "Competing Hummingbirds," "Long-Eared Bat vs Scorpions" -- that highlight the
functional utility of the music.) But BBC Radio 1 has produced an alternative
soundtrack, "The Planet Earth II Playlists," featuring mixes by three of its
D.J.'s set to aerial and drone footage from the series. This mash-up will be
available on Radio 1's iPlayer channel beginning on Sunday. A teaser, from the
mix by Benji B, features a grand scroll of desert and coastal landscape, made to
feel just slightly ominous with an ambient electronic throb. N.C.

Chance the Rapper, 'Feel No Ways' (Drake cover) in the BBC Radio 1Xtra Live
Lounge

[Video: Chance The Rapper - "Feel No Ways" (Drake cover) in the Live Lounge
Watch on YouTube.]

"I'm messing up all of Drake's words/on purpose," Chance the Rapper sings midway
through this cover of Drake's "Feel No Ways," a song about feeling the sharp
lash of recrimination from someone you once loved. Chance's version is both
brighter and more insular; his band backs him with spare, cushioning
synthesizers. When he sings "I had to let go of us, to show myself what I can
do," the exultation, matched by bright synth dollops, is a shift from Drake's
resentment. Chance also changes a few words and adds a few lines that feel,
perhaps, aimed at a specific person who's done him wrong: "We need to
breathe/There's more to life than hearing stuff and being mean to me/We had to
let go of us to show ourselves what we could be." J.C.

Cass McCombs, 'Run Sister Run'

[Video: Cass McCombs - "Run Sister Run" Watch on YouTube.]

The cleareyed, determined runner in the video for Cass McCombs's "Run Sister
Run," from his album "Mangy Love," is Tracie Léost, a 16-year-old indigenous
woman from Manitoba who ran 115 kilometers (over 71 miles) to draw attention to
murdered and missing indigenous women in Canada. With an insistent minor-key
groove propelled by Latin percussion and snakelike guitars, the song rails
against the pressures on and disrespect toward women, at once angry and
reverent: "Don't call my sister a concubine -- she is the mother of Creation."
J.P.

Matana Roberts at Café Oto

The experimental alto saxophonist and composer Matana Roberts didn't release an
album this year, but that doesn't mean she wasn't busy -- touring at home and
abroad, organizing residencies, forging new collaborations. Last month she
settled in for a few days at Café Oto in London, working with English partners
including the pianist Alexander Hawkins, the trumpeter Byron Wallen and the
electronics artist Leafcutter John. The results sparked with exploratory
frictions, as you can hear on the sanctioned bootlegs that Ms. Roberts recently
posted online: three roughly 40-minute improvisations, all well worth hearing
(though maybe not back-to-back). N.C.

Jhené Aiko, 'Maniac'

Tease, come-on and afterglow merge in "Maniac," which finds a percussive path to
sensual bliss: "You just made love to a maniac," Ms. Aiko reminds a partner.
Like a long-evolved descendant of Prince's "Erotic City" by way of Janet Jackson
and f.k.a. twigs, the production is all plinks, ratchets, whooshes and twitches;
virtually every bit of harmony comes from Ms. Aiko's many vocals. She raps
crisply through verses that hop in and out of double time as they juxtapose
desire and demands: "Anywhere, everywhere, you turn me to addict/If you love me
like you say you do then get it tatted." And then she glides into choruses that
hover and coo, offering the promise of sweet, proud insatiability. J.P.

Gucci Mane and Lil Uzi Vert, 'Threesome'

When Gucci Mane finds a vowel sound he loves, get out of the way. The assonance
on "Threesome" is like ice-cold wind, persistent and stinging. This is the best
song on "1017 vs The World," his just-released collaborative mini-album with Lil
Uzi Vert, who does his best to keep up with Gucci Mane here, but sounds like
he's chasing the vowels, not controlling them. JON CARAMANICA

Hannah Diamond, 'Fade Away'

[Video: Hannah Diamond - "Fade Away" Watch on YouTube.]

The English meta-pop factory called PC Music sounds more and more like an
aspiring pop factory, but it keeps its little cyber twists. "Wish we could talk
things through/Wish I could click Undo," sings the impeccable, deadpan,
piping-voiced Hannah Diamond in "Fade Away," the leadoff track on the new
compilation "PC Music Volume 2." It's a snapshot of computer-mediated romantic
estrangement -- "I always thought I'd be the picture saved on your screen" --
percolating along on staccato, programmed synthesizer tones and a skeletal
version of a dance beat. It's cleverly analytical and proudly artificial, but
with human paradoxes that won't go away. J.P.

Aloe Blacc, 'Real Slow'

What sort of suave is Aloe Blacc? On his new single, "Real Slow," he ventures
the most conflicted sort of come-on, proposing intimacy as a shield against
worldly troubles. "Do you feel like there's a place for you and me in the home
of the brave and the land of the free?" he asks, in a rat-a-tat stream. (The
track's terse hip-hop background is the work of DJ Khalil, who also produced
most of Aloe Blacc's 2013 album, "Lift Your Spirit.") The silky assurance of the
singing helps sell the feeling of a confiding, almost clandestine seduction. "We
can dance with our eyes closed," the suitor suggests, before spinning out the
hypothetical:

And imagine that the cops ain't killing nobody
Imagine that our bank accounts filled with money
And dance real slow
Real slow
Real slow
Sorry if I step on your toes

N.C.

Related Articles


     ·    The Playlist: Nicki Minaj Flips Mannequins Into Barbies


LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 25, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

Stalking Black Friday Bargains

BYLINE: RACHEL ABRAMS

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1071 words



HIGHLIGHT: Even as more people shop online, millions, including two sisters from
New York and New Jersey, still rely on Black Friday discounts in stores.


RIVERDALE, N.J. -- With a baby strapped to her front, a knapsack on her back and
a Donald Duck coffee mug in one hand, Christi Mulder arrived at the Target here,
about 30 miles northwest of Manhattan, early Friday morning. She and her sister,
Erica Renaud, who brought her 7-week-old son, were on the hunt for holiday gifts
for the 11 children they have between them.

The New York Times followed Ms. Mulder, 36, and her sister for a closer look at
how Black Friday, as the day after Thanksgiving is often called, plays out for
families on the ground. The retail business, upended by online shopping, is
still struggling to figure out just to lure shoppers off their couches and into
stores. But even as people grow increasingly used to shopping a seemingly
endless stream of bargains online, millions of Americans still rely on Black
Friday discounts in stores, braving the cold and the crowds to find them.

Each sister works part time -- Ms. Renaud is a blogger and Ms. Mulder is a
lacrosse coach -- and was on a budget. Ms. Renaud, 30, wanted to spend no more
than $200 on gifts for her children, plus maybe a little extra for stocking
stuffers. Normally, she spends closer to $300. But this year, alarmed by growing
discussions about credit card debt, student debt and national debt, Ms. Renaud
-- who does not use credit cards -- decided she would try to cut back.

Other factors contributed to that decision. Ms. Renaud and her sister grew up in
an observant Christian family, and both say that religion plays a big role in
their lives. Their husbands work at local churches -- Ms. Renaud's is a prayer
leader, Ms. Mulder's is a pastor -- and Ms. Renaud wanted to focus less on gifts
and more on the holiday itself. Instead of tablets or video games, her children
will receive homemade "tickets" to family activities, like movies or other
outings.

The budget outlined by Ms. Mulder was larger, about $600 for her six children.
But she, too, was hunting for deals.

Neither woman was looking for gifts for herself, although Ms. Mulder's husband
was keen to get a television. Electronics prices had fallen so much so quickly,
Ms. Mulder said. The TV they bought for $800 two years ago was already selling
for $200.

"It used to be like, 'Oh, my whole bonus check is going to my TV,'" Ms. Mulder
said.

Ultimately, they decided to spend their money on the children.

"When you have a family with a lot of kids, or anybody with a budget, you're
constantly balancing needs and wants," she said.

Shopping Online and Off

To get the best deals they could, both women regularly pulled out their
smartphones to look up the prices of what they were finding in the store. Ms.
Renaud had even come prepared with a virtual cart full of products on Amazon.

"In the back of my mind, I'm comparing to what's in my cart," she said. Doing
that ahead of time, she said, made it easier to stick to a budget. "On Amazon,
I'm watching my total change."

And sure, things were often cheaper online. Ms. Mulder even has a subscription
to Amazon Prime, the site's service that comes with free two-day shipping. But
there were advantages to coming to the store, not all of them having to do with
shopping. The outing was a chance for the sisters to spend a couple of hours
catching up, away from their other children and family. Ms. Mulder lives in
nearby North Haledon, N.J., while Ms. Renaud lives in Saratoga Springs, N.Y.,
more than 150 miles away.

Coming to the store also allowed them to examine products that could be
deceiving online.

"You can't look at all of the Legos altogether at once," Ms. Mulder said, eyeing
an aisle full of Star Wars-branded Lego sets. "This little Lego box could look
way better online, and then you get it and you're like, 'Oh, that's tiny, it's
supposed to be a big gift.'"

At Target, Ms. Mulder found a set of hardcover Harry Potter books. The set was
$5 cheaper on Amazon. She thought about it, and put the books back. "That five
or 10 dollars adds up," she said.

But the sisters did not just compare Target's products to what was available
online. When they arrived in the doll aisle, Ms. Mulder took an American Girl
catalog from her knapsack. American Girl dolls can retail for more than $100,
and Ms. Mulder wanted to compare the items her daughter wanted -- an American
Girl brand brush, wheelchair and bathrobe -- with Target's Our Generation
collection, where dolls cost $22.

"The wheelchair for American Girl dolls is like 80 bucks," Ms. Mulder said. "I
can kind of look and see if I can find something similar." Alas, they did not
find a wheelchair at Target.

Election Distraction

Even though they had come with a mental list of Amazon's prices, both sisters
said they normally would have done even more homework before hitting the stores
on Black Friday. But like many people, they were distracted this year by the
election, reading news articles instead of scouring retailers' circulars.

"I don't remember an election trickling all the way into Thanksgiving," Ms.
Renaud said as she eyed a pair of shoes.

"I definitely feel more behind than I would usually be," her sister said.
"Usually, by now, I'll have like a good list for each kid. I'll have all the
fliers for Black Friday. I didn't have any of that this year."

The Final Tally

By about 11 a.m., the sisters were almost finished. One of the babies was
getting fidgety, and the sisters had seen most of the store. Much to their
surprise, Target was not nearly as crowded as they had expected.

But while shopping had gone fairly smoothly, there were a couple of stumbles at
checkout. A book was not marked down as much as they had thought. One of the
Lego sets did not ring up as being on sale.

In the end, Ms. Mulder spent $78.18 on an assortment of dolls and other gifts.
Ms. Renaud spent $92.13 -- nearly half her budget. But she also left without
half of the toys on her list.

"I'm definitely going to be meticulous, online shopping," Ms. Renaud said of how
she would buy the rest of her gifts. And if better deals for what she had bought
popped up on Amazon, she would not hesitate to return items.

"I'm definitely going to keep my receipt," she said.

PHOTO: Two sisters, Erica Renaud, left, and Christi Mulder, hunted for Black
Friday deals at a Target store in Riverdale, N.J., while using the holiday
shopping trip as an opportunity to catch up with each other. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
DEMETRIUS FREEMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Black Friday Shopping: Tales From the Front Lines


LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 26, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

U.S. Statement on Reliability of Election Results

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 238 words



HIGHLIGHT: A senior administration official responded to The Times's questions
about the federal government's investigation into the integrity of the Nov. 8
presidential election.


Following is the full text of a statement from a senior administration official,
issued to The New York Times on Friday in response to questions about the
federal government's investigation into the integrity of the Nov. 8 presidential
election. The government issued the statement to The Times on the condition that
it be attributable only to a senior official.

The Kremlin probably expected that publicity surrounding the disclosures that
followed the Russian Government-directed compromises of e-mails from U.S.
persons and institutions, including from U.S. political organizations, would
raise questions about the integrity of the election process that could have
undermined the legitimacy of the President-elect. Nevertheless, we stand behind
our election results, which accurately reflect the will of the American people.

The Federal government did not observe any increased level of malicious cyber
activity aimed at disrupting our electoral process on election day. As we have
noted before, we remained confident in the overall integrity of electoral
infrastructure, a confidence that was borne out on election day. As a result, we
believe our elections were free and fair from a cybersecurity perspective.

That said, since we do not know if the Russians had planned any malicious cyber
activity for election day, we don't know if they were deterred from further
activity by the various warnings the U.S. government conveyed.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

The Playlist: New Songs From Prince and Garth Brooks, if You Can Find Them

BYLINE: By JON PARELES, JON CARAMANICA and NATE CHINEN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1726 words


Every Friday, pop critics for The New York Times weigh in on the week's most
notable new songs and videos -- and anything else that strikes them as
intriguing. You can listen to this playlist on Spotify here. Like this Playlist?
Let us know at theplaylist@nytimes.com, and sign up for our Louder newsletter
(coming soon!) here.

Prince, 'Moonbeam Levels'

There's one glimmer from the Vault, the huge repository of unreleased Prince
songs, on the new anthology ''Prince 4Ever'' -- and true to Prince's custom,
it's not on streaming services. The song is ''Moonbeam Levels,'' which Prince
recorded for his 1982 album, ''1999,'' but repeatedly shelved. Prince's rejects
would be other songwriters' prizes; Elvis Costello performed ''Moonbeam
Levels,'' which had emerged as a bootleg, at a 2013 Prince tribute concert. It's
one of Prince's brilliantly eccentric ballads, a little bit ''Pop Life'' and a
little bit ''Purple Rain'' but distinct from both, with a wily, chromatically
meandering verse and a stately if inscrutable chorus: ''Please send all your
moonbeam levels to me.'' The lyrics depict an uncertain seeker who eventually
resolves to ''fight 4 perfect love,'' and now they're a memorial to Prince; the
end of the chorus changes along the way from ''I'm looking for a better place to
die'' to ''He don't really want to die.'' JON PARELES

Aretha Franklin, 'The Star-Spangled Banner'

[Video: Aretha Franklin National Anthem Watch on YouTube.]

At the Thanksgiving Day Lions-Vikings football game, Aretha Franklin took the
national anthem to church and kept it there for four lavishly unhurried minutes.
The instrumental lineup -- Ms. Franklin on piano backed by an organist -- should
have been a tipoff that deep gospel was in store. This wasn't a song to get out
of the way before the game could start. This would be an anthem treated like a
classic spiritual, taking the time to contemplate every word and every phrase
with deep concentration and improvisational abandon. Ms. Franklin made the song
a patient, circuitous, ultimately spectacular ascent, from a husky,
inward-looking start to an airborne finale, through husky assurances and bluesy
sufferings, through grainy determination and powerful purity. The last line of
the verse is a question -- ''Does that star-spangled banner yet wave?'' -- but
Ms. Franklin turned it into a flat-out affirmation: ''It is the land of the
free, the free!'' she sang, ''We are the home of the brave!'' J.P.

Garth Brooks, 'Ask Me How I Know'

[Video: "Ask Me How I Know" (Garth Brooks Cover) Watch on YouTube.]

Of Garth Brooks's many modes, perhaps his most convincing -- in this, the late
middle of his career -- is dad mode. There's something in the way he declaims:
it connotes certainty, sympathy and resignation. This approach is at its most
intense on ''Ask Me How I Know,'' from his strong new album, ''Gunslinger,''
which in the hands of a lesser singer would be a scold, but is instead a
reassuring arm around the shoulder: ''And when you start to fall, you hung on to
your pride/Start building up your walls and never let her get inside/You'll push
her away, 'cause that's all you know how to do.''

Mr. Brooks is a dad in more ways than one: Up until recently, he has been a
streaming denier, and when he finally caved, it was via an exclusive arrangement
with Amazon Music. But ''Gunslinger'' is only available as a download right now,
so to hear this song, you can buy it, or listen to a very fine cover of it by
Jim Gegner, the only version currently available on YouTube. JON CARAMANICA

'Unstoppable,' by Lin-Manuel Miranda ('Moana' Outtake)

[Video: Lin-Manuel Miranda - "Unstoppable" (From "Moana"/Outtake/Audio Only)
Watch on YouTube.]

If you're spending any time with young family members this holiday weekend,
there's a decent chance you'll get a taste of ''Moana,'' the new animated Disney
film. Its soundtrack features songs by Lin-Manuel Miranda. (We'll probably be
hearing ''How Far I'll Go,'' the movie's heart-tugging centerpiece, for months
and years to come.) But there were also a few tunes that didn't make the final
cut, and you can hear them on the deluxe edition of the original motion picture
soundtrack. A demo called ''Unstoppable'' tells the legend of Maui, the
Polynesian demigod, in a spoken-word cadence that can now only be described as
Hamiltonian: ''Abandoned by his parents and raised by the gods/Who could see he
was destined for greatness,'' Mr. Miranda begins, against a polyrhythmic clatter
of gourds and log drums. NATE CHINEN

The Planet Earth II Playlists

The official soundtrack for ''Planet Earth II,'' the visually stunning BBC
nature documentary, consists of a dramatic orchestral score by Hans Zimmer,
Jacob Shea and Jasha Klebe. (It was recently released as a double album, with
track titles -- ''Competing Hummingbirds,'' ''Long-Eared Bat vs Scorpions'' --
that highlight the functional utility of the music.) But BBC Radio 1 has
produced an alternative soundtrack, ''The Planet Earth II Playlists,'' featuring
mixes by three of its D.J.'s set to aerial and drone footage from the series.
This mash-up will be available on Radio 1's iPlayer channel beginning on Sunday.
A teaser, from the mix by Benji B, features a grand scroll of desert and coastal
landscape, made to feel just slightly ominous with an ambient electronic throb.
N.C.

Chance the Rapper, 'Feel No Ways' (Drake cover) in the BBC Radio 1Xtra Live
Lounge

[Video: Chance The Rapper - "Feel No Ways" (Drake cover) in the Live Lounge
Watch on YouTube.]

''I'm messing up all of Drake's words/on purpose,'' Chance the Rapper sings
midway through this cover of Drake's ''Feel No Ways,'' a song about feeling the
sharp lash of recrimination from someone you once loved. Chance's version is
both brighter and more insular; his band backs him with spare, cushioning
synthesizers. When he sings ''I had to let go of us, to show myself what I can
do,'' the exultation, matched by bright synth dollops, is a shift from Drake's
resentment. Chance also changes a few words and adds a few lines that feel,
perhaps, aimed at a specific person who's done him wrong: ''We need to
breathe/There's more to life than hearing stuff and being mean to me/We had to
let go of us to show ourselves what we could be.'' J.C.

Cass McCombs, 'Run Sister Run'

[Video: Cass McCombs - "Run Sister Run" Watch on YouTube.]

The cleareyed, determined runner in the video for Cass McCombs's ''Run Sister
Run,'' from his album ''Mangy Love,'' is Tracie Léost, a 16-year-old indigenous
woman from Manitoba who ran 115 kilometers (over 71 miles) to draw attention to
murdered and missing indigenous women in Canada. With an insistent minor-key
groove propelled by Latin percussion and snakelike guitars, the song rails
against the pressures on and disrespect toward women, at once angry and
reverent: ''Don't call my sister a concubine -- she is the mother of Creation.''
J.P.

Matana Roberts at Café Oto

The experimental alto saxophonist and composer Matana Roberts didn't release an
album this year, but that doesn't mean she wasn't busy -- touring at home and
abroad, organizing residencies, forging new collaborations. Last month she
settled in for a few days at Café Oto in London, working with English partners
including the pianist Alexander Hawkins, the trumpeter Byron Wallen and the
electronics artist Leafcutter John. The results sparked with exploratory
frictions, as you can hear on the sanctioned bootlegs that Ms. Roberts recently
posted online: three roughly 40-minute improvisations, all well worth hearing
(though maybe not back-to-back). N.C.

Jhené Aiko, 'Maniac'

Tease, come-on and afterglow merge in ''Maniac,'' which finds a percussive path
to sensual bliss: ''You just made love to a maniac,'' Ms. Aiko reminds a
partner. Like a long-evolved descendant of Prince's ''Erotic City'' by way of
Janet Jackson and f.k.a. twigs, the production is all plinks, ratchets, whooshes
and twitches; virtually every bit of harmony comes from Ms. Aiko's many vocals.
She raps crisply through verses that hop in and out of double time as they
juxtapose desire and demands: ''Anywhere, everywhere, you turn me to addict/If
you love me like you say you do then get it tatted.'' And then she glides into
choruses that hover and coo, offering the promise of sweet, proud insatiability.
J.P.

Gucci Mane and Lil Uzi Vert, 'Threesome'

When Gucci Mane finds a vowel sound he loves, get out of the way. The assonance
on ''Threesome'' is like ice-cold wind, persistent and stinging. This is the
best song on ''1017 vs The World,'' his just-released collaborative mini-album
with Lil Uzi Vert, who does his best to keep up with Gucci Mane here, but sounds
like he's chasing the vowels, not controlling them. JON CARAMANICA

Hannah Diamond, 'Fade Away'

[Video: Hannah Diamond - "Fade Away" Watch on YouTube.]

The English meta-pop factory called PC Music sounds more and more like an
aspiring pop factory, but it keeps its little cyber twists. ''Wish we could talk
things through/Wish I could click Undo,'' sings the impeccable, deadpan,
piping-voiced Hannah Diamond in ''Fade Away,'' the leadoff track on the new
compilation ''PC Music Volume 2.'' It's a snapshot of computer-mediated romantic
estrangement -- ''I always thought I'd be the picture saved on your screen'' --
percolating along on staccato, programmed synthesizer tones and a skeletal
version of a dance beat. It's cleverly analytical and proudly artificial, but
with human paradoxes that won't go away. J.P.

Aloe Blacc, 'Real Slow'

What sort of suave is Aloe Blacc? On his new single, ''Real Slow,'' he ventures
the most conflicted sort of come-on, proposing intimacy as a shield against
worldly troubles. ''Do you feel like there's a place for you and me in the home
of the brave and the land of the free?'' he asks, in a rat-a-tat stream. (The
track's terse hip-hop background is the work of DJ Khalil, who also produced
most of Aloe Blacc's 2013 album, ''Lift Your Spirit.'') The silky assurance of
the singing helps sell the feeling of a confiding, almost clandestine seduction.
''We can dance with our eyes closed,'' the suitor suggests, before spinning out
the hypothetical:

And imagine that the cops ain't killing nobodyImagine that our bank accounts
filled with moneyAnd dance real slowReal slowReal slowSorry if I step on your
toes

N.C.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/25/arts/music/playlist-prince-aretha-franklin-gar
th-brooks.html

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 27, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

Cyber Monday Hits as the U.S. Awaits Jobs Data;
The Week Ahead

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 780 words



HIGHLIGHT: Retailers follow up Black Friday with online deals, and the European
Court of Justice considers how to regulate the San Francisco-based ride-booking
service.


Here's a look at what's coming up this week:

RETAIL INDUSTRY

The end of a four-day (shopping) weekend.

Retailers have geared up for Cyber Monday, the last day of deals in what has
become a four-day shopping weekend. After Black Friday, Small Business Saturday
and Super Sunday, retailers will offer online deals on Monday on everything from
televisions to Tupperware, with a focus on electronics. Rachel Abrams

TECHNOLOGY

Defining Uber's place within the European Union.

Uber will head to Europe's highest court on Tuesday to determine how its popular
ride-booking service can operate across the European Union. The company has
faced vocal opposition from traditional taxi services and labor unions, and the
hearing at the European Court of Justice will decide whether Uber must comply
with the region's onerous transportation rules or can operate mostly unhindered.
A decision in the case is expected by March. Mark Scott

ECONOMICS

Economic growth data expected to improve.

On Tuesday, at 8:30 a.m., the Commerce Department will release its updated
estimate of economic growth in the third quarter. The revision is expected to
show a slight increase, with the estimate rising to 3 percent from an initial
figure of 2.9 percent. In addition, the government will provide an estimate of
corporate profits in the quarter, which could show an increase, lifted by a
recovery in energy prices and continued tech and retail spending. Nelson D.
Schwartz

OIL INDUSTRY

OPEC to weigh oil output agreement.

On Wednesday, all eyes in the oil market will be on Vienna, where ministers of
the 14-member OPEC cartel will try to reach an agreement on curbs in output
aimed at reducing an oil glut. OPEC came to a general understanding on
production cuts in Algiers in September, but has since struggled with assigning
targets to each member. Analysts say that a credible deal would probably bolster
prices, now close to $50 a barrel, in the short term. Another failure to reach
consensus, however, similar to what occurred in Doha, Qatar, in April, may send
prices tumbling. Stanley Reed

AUTO INDUSTRY

Volkswagen to report on emissions settlement.

The judge overseeing class-action lawsuits against Volkswagen for its emissions
cheating scandal will hold a hearing on Wednesday to get an update on progress
toward a settlement involving 80,000 vehicles with 3-liter diesel motors. The
vehicles are mostly Audis but also include some Porsche and Volkswagen sport
utility vehicles. During the status hearing before Judge Charles R. Breyer in
Federal District Court in San Francisco, Volkswagen could face questions about
new indications that emissions cheating was even more extensive than the company
has already disclosed. Jack Ewing

ECONOMY

Bank of England to reflect on British finances.

The Bank of England is expected on Wednesday to provide its semiannual outlook
on the stability of the British financial system, as well as the results of its
latest stress test of the ability of the nation's biggest banks to survive a
future financial crisis. Chad Bray

Eurozone jobless numbers expected to decline.

Official data coming out on Thursday is expected to show that eurozone
unemployment fell below 10 percent in October for the first time since 2011.
Analysts expect the jobless rate to slip to 9.9 percent, compared with 10
percent in September, continuing the agonizingly slow recovery from an economic
crisis that began almost a decade ago. Many countries, including Spain, France
and Italy, continue to post jobless numbers well above 10 percent. Jack Ewing

AUTO INDUSTRY

Automakers to share November sales data.

Automakers report their November sales in the United States on Thursday. Overall
sales have been slower this year than last, but automakers hope that a holiday
season rush, helped by incentives they offered for Black Friday, will buttress
those numbers. Zach Wichter

ECONOMY

U.S. awaits hiring and unemployment report.

On Friday, at 8:30 a.m., the Labor Department will release the latest data on
hiring and unemployment in November. Economists expect the report to show that
the economy added 175,000 jobs and that the unemployment rate remained unchanged
from October's level of 4.9 percent. Average hourly earnings are thought to have
risen by 0.2 percentage point, bringing the yearly increase to 2.8 percent.

This is the last jobs report before policy makers at the Federal Reserve meet in
December to decide whether to raise interest rates. Most economists expect the
Fed to tighten monetary policy, although a very weak jobs number could make that
slightly less certain. Nelson D. Schwartz

PHOTO: The suits against Volkswagen involve thousands of Audis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
YVES HERMAN/REUTERS)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 27, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

Nintendo's New Console May Feed Your Nostalgia, if You Can Get One

BYLINE: ZACH SCHONBRUN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1128 words



HIGHLIGHT: The NES Classic Edition, a smaller version of a 30-year-old game
system, is one of the year's hottest gifts. But the trip down memory lane isn't
without headaches.


When she heard that Nintendo was planning to reproduce its iconic Nintendo
Entertainment System video game console for the holiday season, Emily Bradbury
put a note on her calendar and set an alarm on her phone.

She was not interested in buying it for her children. She wanted it for her
husband.

"He's 40 years old and grew up with a Nintendo," Ms. Bradbury said. "It's a
nostalgia thing."

Since its release on Nov. 11, the NES Classic Edition, a smaller version of the
original console introduced to North America in 1985, has become one of the
hottest gift items of the year. It has struck a chord especially among older
millennials and younger members of Generation X, who may have found in it a
video game system to share with their children - if they don't just keep it for
themselves.

It retails for $60, with one original controller, and comes preloaded with 30
classic games, including Super Mario Bros., Donkey Kong, The Legend of Zelda and
Tecmo Bowl.

But this trip down memory lane has not been without headaches. Nintendo has been
sluggish in responding to the demand, resulting in huge markups on the secondary
market, including on sites like eBay, where the consoles were being resold for
as much as $390. Those higher prices are sure to stand out even more on Monday,
when many other brands and retailers cut prices for Cyber Monday, the online
version of Black Friday.

On the release date, most retailers, including Amazon and GameStop, sold out
almost immediately. (Pre-orders had sold out over the summer.) Walmart kept a
very limited supply in stock that it trickled out in online flash sales over the
last two weeks. The consoles sold out within two minutes each time.

Heeding her calendar warnings and alarms, Ms. Bradbury tried to order the NES
online through Amazon and Walmart but could not act quickly enough. She even
enlisted friends to visit nearby Target and Best Buy stores in Wichita, Kan.,
the closest big city to her home. But they, too, returned empty-handed.

"I thought it would be a bunch of us 40-something people going after it, but it
won't be much of a big deal," said Ms. Bradbury, the member services director
for the Kansas Press Association, a trade organization for Kansas newspapers. "I
was shocked."

But Michael Pachter, a Wedbush Securities analyst, said he was not surprised by
the intense demand or the low supply, which he considered an intentional move by
Nintendo to garner attention, knowing that it could restock before the holiday
shopping season was over.

"The Classic is sold out for three reasons: It's nostalgic, it's cheap and
Nintendo clearly didn't ship enough of them," Mr. Pachter said in an email,
adding: "There is plenty of time to stock the channel. They may miss Black
Friday, but they won't miss Xmas."

In a statement, Nintendo said that it was "working hard to keep up with consumer
demand."

"There will be a steady flow of additional systems through the holiday shopping
season and into the new year," the statement read. The company declined to
comment further.

David Cole, the chief executive of DFC Intelligence, a market research firm,
said there was a lot riding on Nintendo's ability to satisfy demand in the next
few weeks. The company is introducing a new product, Nintendo Switch, in 2017,
which it hopes will make up for its lagging sales of the Wii U and its late
entry into mobile gaming. Pokémon Go, which was released over the summer and is
partially owned by Nintendo, was the company's first major effort in mobile
gaming, and it was a sensation.

Mr. Cole said buyers were pursuing the NES Classic Edition mostly for nostalgia,
but he thought the console could potentially make older customers interested in
future Nintendo products.

"They had really lost their brand identity the past two years," Mr. Cole said.
"This was the kind of thing that was perfect for bringing that back."

But such a plan will work, Mr. Cole added, only if Nintendo manages to restock
before the holidays are over.

"If they don't, they really miss out on an opportunity," he said. "That demand
might not carry over into 2017."

Jim Silver, editor of TTPM, a toy review website, says that nostalgic items have
been big this year, and that retailers are recognizing that many of the children
who grew up in the 1980s are starting families of their own. He noted that
Stretch Armstrong figurines, and Strawberry Shortcake and Teddy Ruxpin dolls
have all begun making comebacks. The NES is no different.

"This is not 8-year-olds saying, 'I need to have Zelda,'" Mr. Silver said. "This
is adults saying, 'These were my favorite games. I get to play them again.'"

But shopping for a hot holiday item, even online, is hardly simple today. And
those who have managed to acquire the new NES at the retail price seem to have
benefited from extensive planning, research and luck - even strategizing since
July, when Nintendo announced its plans to release the NES.

Michael Salazar, from Sacramento, Calif., managed to place a request to
pre-order a console on July 22 through Amazon's British website. When it arrived
last week, shipped directly from Edinburgh, Mr. Salazar was elated.

He then used a secondary site, which tracks inventory at Target stores, to
monitor whether any consoles had arrived locally. When he saw that a nearby
Target had received three, he rushed there at 7:30 a.m. on a Sunday to buy one
as a present for his brother-in-law.

Now, he is looking for a third to give as a gift.

"I'm 38; that's my childhood," Mr. Salazar said. "Nintendo was always a very
important piece of my life."

Amanda Schluer, of Rocklin, Calif., had the foresight in July to set an alert on
Amazon for one minute before the release date. Then she watched the seconds tick
down.

"I've sat and waited for Garth Brooks tickets the same way," Ms. Schluer said.
"Just wait until the second they go on sale and push the button."

By acting quickly, Ms. Schluer, 38, managed to buy a console. She and her
husband even took their NES to Los Angeles to play with family over
Thanksgiving.

"We have a Wii, and my kids never play it," said Ms. Schluer of her two
daughters, ages 6 and 10.

"That's the good thing about the old retro games," Ms. Schluer added. "They are
fun, they're age-appropriate, and it's something we can all play together."

PHOTOS: Michael Salazar and his family play an NES Classic Edition, one of the
hottest gifts of the year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELI HILLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(B1); On the secondary market, NES Classic Edition consoles have been resold for
as much as $390. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NINTENDO) (B4)

Related Articles


     ·    Vast Group of New Video Games and Hardware Jostle for Holiday
          Attention
     ·    Farhad's and Mike's Week in Tech: The Political Evolution of Silicon
          Valley
     ·    To Compete With Mobile, Sony Tailors PlayStation to Next-Generation
          TVs


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 27, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

Fidel Castro, Donald Trump, Cyber Monday: Your Weekend Briefing

BYLINE: KAREN WORKMAN and MERRILL D. OLIVER

SECTION: BRIEFING

LENGTH: 841 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here's what you need to know about the week's top stories.


Here are the week's top stories, and a look ahead.

1. Fidel Castro, the fiery apostle of revolution who defied the United States
for nearly half a century as Cuba's leader, died Friday. He was 90.

After a two-day period of public mourning in Havana on Monday and Tuesday, his
ashes will be moved across the country. He'll be put to rest Sunday, Dec. 4, in
Santiago de Cuba.

It's been a decade since he ran the country. His brother, Raúl Castro, has ruled
since he stepped aside.

____

2. President-elect Donald Trump named several people to fill positions in his
administration last week, but a decision on who will be secretary of state - the
cabinet's most important foreign policy job - is pending.

He and his team are locked in debate over whether Mitt Romney or Rudolph
Giuliani, or neither of them, should get the post.

Selections from last week include: Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina as
ambassador to the United Nations; Betsy DeVos, above, a charter school advocate,
for education secretary; and K. T. McFarland, a White House veteran, as deputy
national security adviser.

____

3. A review of Mr. Trump's businessdealings around the world reveals a variety
of complications and tensions he could face in balancing his priorities as
president with the needs of his companies.

In Scotland, above, where Mr. Trump is accused of not delivering on some of the
promises he made about a golf course development and lashing out at neighboring
homeowners, he has drawn the ire of several politicians.

"If America wants to know what is coming, it should study what happened here,"
said a local government representative.

____

4. During Mr. Trump's meeting Tuesday with journalists at The New York Times -
one that he briefly canceled and then reinstated after a dispute over the ground
rules - he seemed to temper some of his most extreme campaign promises.

Mr. Trump dropped his vow to jail Hillary Clinton, pledged to have an open mind
about climate change and expressed doubt about the value of torturing terrorism
suspects. Here are the most important quotes from the interview and a full
transcript.

____

5. American officials pointed to the killings of several members of an Islamic
State cell focused on hacking and online recruitment as evidence of success in
the fight against the militants.

But in Syria, where the U.S. is helping to organize an offensive against the
group, the military suffered its first combat death when a service member was
killed by an improvised explosive device on Thursday.

The militants also struck in Iraq, where a suicide bomber killed 80 people in a
city south of Baghdad, above. The group vowed to spread the "flames" of the
battle underway to retake Mosul from them.

____

6. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, above, threatened countries in the
European Union with an influx of migrants if talks about its becoming a member
are halted.

His threat was a reaction to a nonbinding vote by the European Parliament, which
came on the heels of Turkey's crackdown against political opponents.

____

7. An American start-up is trying to figure out the secret to farming truffles,
a prized and expensive type of fungus that is famously difficult to domesticate.

The company inoculates the roots of trees to grow truffles more reliably.
Planting the first acre costs $17,000 to $25,000, and then there's a waiting
period of five years before the fungus begins emerging.

Efforts are largely focused on orchards in Napa Valley, Calif., but no truffles
have been produced yet. "It's more the romance right now," a would-be truffle
grower said.

____

8. The movie "La La Land," opening on Dec. 9, could have a shot at making
musicals matter again, our film critic writes.

Starring Emma Stone and Ryan Gosling, the scenes move "from the recognizable now
into full-blown fantasy." The question is whether contemporary moviegoers can
make that move, too.

____

9. The biggest weekend for holiday shopping in the U.S. kicked off on Black
Friday and wraps up with Cyber Monday. Gifts aren't the only deals being
offered: Here's a look at travel discounts.

If you're in need of ideas, our gift guide has plenty of them.

____

10. Thanksgiving may be done, but the holiday season has only just begun. The
national Christmas tree, in Washington, will be lit in a ceremony on Thursday,
though the event won't be broadcast until Dec. 5 (7 p.m. Eastern, Hallmark
Channel).

And if you've eaten all the Thanksgiving leftovers or just can't stomach any
more of them, here are some recipes with not a turkey or cranberry in sight. Bon
appétit.

Have a great week.

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this versionof the
briefing should help.

Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.

And don't miss Your Morning Briefing, weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your
Evening Briefing, weeknights at 6 p.m. Eastern.

Want to look back? Here's Friday's Evening Briefing.

What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at
briefing@nytimes.com.

Related Articles


     ·    Florence Henderson, Trump, Israel: Your Friday Evening Briefing


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 27, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

Fidel Castro, Formula One, François Fillon: Your Monday Briefing;
Europe Edition

BYLINE: PATRICK BOEHLER

SECTION: BRIEFING

LENGTH: 1094 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here's what you need to know to start your day.


Good morning.

Here's what you need to know:

A recount effort in the United States presidential election that began in
Wisconsin may extend this week to two more states narrowly lost by Hillary
Clinton.

President-elect Donald J. Trump dismissed the effort as a "scam" and unleashed a
daylong storm of Twitter posts, including asserting without evidence that his
shortfall in the popular vote was because of "millions of people" voting
illegally.

The Twitter outburst also came as Mr. Trump is laboring to fill crucial
positions in his cabinet. An adviser assailed Mitt Romney, one the top
candidates for secretary of state, as having gone "out of his way to hurt" the
president-elect in the primaries.

_____

Mr. Trump's business dealings around the globe are raising widespread concerns
over conflicts of interest. One example is a postelection telephone call with
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, in which the president-elect praised
his business associate in the Trump Towers in Istanbul, above.

In Scotland, Mr. Trump built a wall on the border of his golf course, blocking
the sea view of local residents, and then sent them the bill.

_____

François Fillon, a conservative government veteran who called for economic
sacrifice, major changes in the workplace and a crackdown on immigration and
Islam, won a runoff to represent France's center-right Republican Party in
April's presidential contest.

The outcome paved the way for a likely face-off with the country's far-right
party.

_____

The Cuban government is rolling out plans for a nine-day period of "Duelo
Nacional," or national pain, after the death of Fidel Castro, 90.

The country, which defied the United States for nearly half a century before
hostilities eased, remains firmly in the grip of his brother, Raúl Castro.

The capital, Havana, has been quiet, but Cuban exiles celebrated in Miami. Mr.
Castro's ashes will be interred on Sunday.

_____

In Tbilisi, Georgia, a two-room apartment shared by a computer science student
and his younger brother is an unlikely offshore outpost of America's fake news
industry.

"I did not write to make Trump win," the student said. "I just wanted to get
viewers and make some money."

_____

Business

Swiss voters rejected a proposal to phase out nuclear power by 2029.

American retailers have geared up for Cyber Monday, the last day of deals in
what has become an annual shopping weekend. Sales rose 18 percent over last
year, to $5.3 billion. Visits to brick-and-mortar stores dipped.

The European Court of Justice will hear arguments on Tuesday that will most
likely determine how Uber can operate across the European Union.

Our business columnist tracked the fortune of J. K. Rowling, the "Harry Potter"
author. He estimates Ms. Rowling's net worth at $1.2 billion, noting that she
pays taxes and gives generously to charity.

A start-up thinks it may have found the secret to growing truffles.

Here's a snapshot of global markets.

In the News

In Montenegro, a detained mercenary is slowly spilling his guts on a purported
plot orchestrated by two Russians to kill the prime minister and install a new
government hostile to NATO. [The New York Times]

Viktor F. Yanukovych, the former president of Ukraine, said that he regretted
not ordering troops to disperse the mass protests that forced him into exile in
Russia. [The New York Times]

The U.K. Independence Party is expected to announce its new leader today. [The
Financial Times]

The Vatican is seeking a grand compromise with China's Communist leaders to heal
a decades-old rift that has divided generations of Chinese Catholics. [The New
York Times]

A Moroccan state broadcaster instructed women on ways to hide signs of domestic
violence with makeup. [The Guardian]

U.S. officials say they will close a protest camp that has drawn thousands of
Native Americans opposed to an oil pipeline in North Dakota. [The New York
Times]

"I see the anger I was raised with rocking the nation." A young American who
renounced white nationalism considers the wave of white rage that aligned behind
Donald J. Trump as he ascended to the White House. [The New York Times]

Noteworthy

A weekslong chess battle between Sergey Karjakin of Russia and the defending
world champion, Magnus Carlsen of Norway, could end today.

Simmering Cold War tensions have given the match weightier geopolitical
overtones. A Russian spokesman said that President Vladimir V. Putin receives
constant updates.

Anger rooms let customers smash objects to release their rage. Sessions are
meant to be therapeutic, but mental health professionals question the efficacy
of rampaging in a faux cubicle.

Nico Rosberg, driving for Mercedes, became the second son of a Formula One world
champion to win the title himself.

"Hero of the Empire," an account of Winston Churchill's time in South Africa,
and "Iza's Ballad," a meditative Hungarian novel, are among our 100 Notable
Books of 2016. Here's the full list.

And just look at these trees in Lapland, Finland's northernmost region. They are
so coated in frosty rime that they could be mistaken for towers of shaving foam.

Back Story

That banana you might be having for breakfast is probably a Cavendish, the most
widely available variety of one of the world's most popular fruits.

But a deadly fungus is on the march, and the Cavendish's lack of genetic
diversity is raising fears of a possible "bananapocalypse."

The killer, a strain of Panama disease called Tropical Race 4, has spread to
China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Taiwan and the Northern Territory of Australia, and
has recently been found in Africa and the Middle East.

With its yellow peel and seedless fruit, the Cavendish makes up 95 percent of
bananas sold worldwide, according to the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization.

The previous dominant variety, the Gros Michel, was devastated by another form
of the fungus in the 1950s. Growers turned to the Cavendish, whose strength lies
more in disease resistance than flavor. (One expert said it "had been considered
something close to junk.")

The Cavendish is thought to have arrived in England in the 1800s from Mauritius,
taking its name from the family in whose greenhouse it was cultivated.
Missionaries eventually carried it to the Pacific islands.

One scientist sees a silver lining in newly urgent efforts to save the seeds
from wild bananas. "Race 4 is a threat," he says, "but it's also an opportunity
to start growing more diversity."

Remy Tumin contributed reporting.

_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

U.S. Statement on Reliability of Election Results

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg.

LENGTH: 239 words


Following is the full text of a statement from a senior administration official,
issued to The New York Times on Friday in response to questions about the
federal government's investigation into the integrity of the Nov. 8 presidential
election. The government issued the statement to The Times on the condition that
it be attributable only to a senior official.

The Kremlin probably expected that publicity surrounding the disclosures that
followed the Russian Government-directed compromises of e-mails from U.S.
persons and institutions, including from U.S. political organizations, would
raise questions about the integrity of the election process that could have
undermined the legitimacy of the President-elect. Nevertheless, we stand behind
our election results, which accurately reflect the will of the American people.

The Federal government did not observe any increased level of malicious cyber
activity aimed at disrupting our electoral process on election day. As we have
noted before, we remained confident in the overall integrity of electoral
infrastructure, a confidence that was borne out on election day. As a result, we
believe our elections were free and fair from a cybersecurity perspective.

That said, since we do not know if the Russians had planned any malicious cyber
activity for election day, we don't know if they were deterred from further
activity by the various warnings the U.S. government conveyed.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/26/us/politics/us-statement-on-reliability-of-ele
ction-results.html

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 28, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Pentagon: Looking for a Few Good Hackers;
Editorial

BYLINE: THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 443 words



HIGHLIGHT: The last thing the Pentagon would seem to need is more hackers. But
Defense Department officials are inviting them in.


In June 2015, the Office of Personnel Management announced that foreign hackers
had stolen the personnel records of millions of federal employees, one of the
most damaging cyberattacks in history. Just weeks later, the office of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff shut down its unclassified email system for several days after
officials detected that it had been breached.

These serious intrusions came months after a group affiliated with the Islamic
State briefly commandeeredthe Central Command's Twitter account and rebranded it
as the "Cyber Caliphate."

Given the enormity of the problem, one of the responses by the Department of
Defense might seem befuddling. They've asked hackers willing to play by strict
rules to find vulnerabilities in some of the Pentagon's unclassified computer
system.

Well-intentioned computer security experts routinely scan the internet in search
of vulnerabilities, which they often map out and report. Until now, doing that
on Pentagon sites carried the considerable legal risk of running afoul of the
Computer Fraud and Abuse Act.

"Hack the Pentagon" kicked off in April with a monthlong trial program that
attracted 1,400 so-called white hackers to fiddle with Department of Defense
websites on the hunt for weak points that could be exploited to steal data or
jam systems. Those hackers spotted 138 weaknesses, according to the Pentagon,
and were paid $75,000 in rewards.

Encouraged by the results, the Defense Department last week announced a formal
policy permitting outside computer experts to test for vulnerabilities in the
system and report them to the department. Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter
called the initiative "a 'see something, say something' policy for the digital
domain." Those hackers won't be paid for their reports, but officials hope they
will do it out of a sense of duty.

In addition, the department has started "Hack the Army," a program asking
hackers who have been approved by the government to test the Army's recruiting
websites for weaknesses.

While these efforts represent just one aspect of the federal government's effort
to protect secret data more rigorously, Mr. Carter deserves credit for
championing an unconventional approach.

"Hack the Pentagon" and "Hack the Army" allows defense officials to draw from a
talent pool that includes people who would not ordinarily feel at home in the
military's hierarchical culture. It may well turn into an unconventional
recruitment pipeline for an organization that always benefits from outside
perspectives and carefully calibrated disruption.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 28, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump's Response to Plans for a Recount;
Letters

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 604 words



HIGHLIGHT: Readers differ on whether recounts should take place and how The
Times reported the news.


To the Editor:

Re "Trump Promotes a Baseless Claim on Illegal Voting" (front page, Nov. 28):

Donald Trump claims that millions of people voted illegally. If he truly
believes that, then he is duty-bound to demand an immediate recount and see to
it that the election was carried out legally. If not, then he should recognize
that this is no longer the campaign and that he can no longer simply make stuff
up any time he feels like it. Enough.

JEREMY DRIESEN

New York

To the Editor:

During the election campaign, when Donald Trump was asked if he would accept the
election results, he said "I'll keep you in suspense," and for this he was
pilloried mercilessly by The Times and the rest of the liberal media. Hillary
Clinton said she was "horrified."

Now that the election is over, the shoe is on the other foot, and it is Hillary
Clinton and the liberals who are not accepting the clear results. However, now
there is no outcry, no expression of outrage from The Times and the other
liberal media.

MAX WISOTSKY

Highland Park, N.J.

To the Editor:

As a voter who supported Hillary Clinton throughout the campaign, I think that
her participation in a recount is misguided. At this point, rather than carrying
out a sense of duty to the millions of us who voted for her, Mrs. Clinton and
her supporters should be working to help the country heal, accept what we cannot
change, and find ways to mitigate the damage of a Trump presidency.

ANNE-MARIE HISLOP

Chicago

To the Editor:

Thank you, New York Times, for your front-page headline: "Trump Promotes a
Baseless Claim on Illegal Voting." Words like "baseless," right up high, derail
attempts to create fake news.

My husband and I subscribed to your paper right after the election because we
believe that a free and independent press is vital, and we want to support it.
Thanks for keeping it real and honest!

LAURA HOLMES

Brewster, N.Y.

To the Editor:

As a former newspaper reporter, I am saddened by the continuing blur between
editorial commentary and news coverage. In another age, the word "baseless" in
your front-page headline would have been reserved for the editorial page, where
it belongs.

The Times and other respectable news organizations should resist the temptation
to join others (most notably Fox News) as they drop their conclusions into news
stories. Please allow me, the reader, to draw a conclusion for myself.

DAVID E. LANGFORD

Atlanta

To the Editor:

Re "U.S. Officials Stand By Vote Despite Fears" (front page, Nov. 26):

I strongly disagree with the Obama administration's position. As a political
scientist, and someone who has worked as an election observer around the world,
I believe that there are two important reasons that warrant a recount in
Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.

First, the elections were conducted in a context of credible threats of external
interference and cyber-manipulation. These were serious enough to warrant not
only a look into the current situation, but also a bigger discussion about our
voting methods in general.

Second, the recount will draw attention to the problem of electronic voting
machines that do not produce a paper trail. Election observation agencies have
long advised states to remove or not to adopt such machines, because of the
threat of software manipulation and the inability of conducting an actual
recount. This is one of the main reasons that a lot of developed countries have
shied away from this technology.

We should treat the recount as an opportunity to address and deal with these
issues now.

KLARA BILGIN

Fairfax, Va.

The writer is dean of the School of Public and International Affairs at Virginia
International University.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times
                                  (Dot Earth)

                       November 28, 2016 Monday 12:48 EST

Under Trump, Will NASA's Space Science Include Planet Earth?;
Dot Earth

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2818 words



HIGHLIGHT: Advisors to President-elect Trump see little merit in NASA
emphasizing &#8220;Earth-centric&#8221; science.


Update | Here's my ProPublica article on NASA and President-elect Trump's
advisors.

You have probably heard that two of President-elect Donald J. Trump's advisors
have been pushing for a reboot of the mission of NASA, focusing more on
exploration of extraterrestrial space and less on studying the one planet we
know is inhabited by7.35 billion people, with at least a couple of billion more
coming along before humanity's puberty-style growth spurt shifts to something
new past 2050.

Media coverage so far has focused on the prospect of the Trump administration
killing off NASA's research on climate change, but the issues are much broader.

The advisors are Peter Navarro, an economist and professor of business at the
University of California, Irvine, and Robert Walker, a former member of Congress
from southeastern Pennsylvania who was chairman of the House Science Committee
from 1995 to 1997 and chairman of the Commission on the Future of the U.S.
Aerospace Industry, which issued a final report in 2002.

Their view is most succinctly articulated in this line from a Spacenews.com
commentary on Oct. 19: "NASA should be focused primarily on deep space
activities rather than Earth-centric work that is better handled by other
agencies." Walker stirred things afresh with comments on the "politicized"
nature of NASA climate science in The Guardian last Wednesday and on CBC Radio.*

For starters, their argument presumes that "Earth-centric work" is best handled
by other agencies. Read on for more on that point, including input from a
variety of analysts, including former NASA chief scientist Waleed Abdalati (now
at the University of Colorado, Boulder).

A similar priority shift at NASA was pursued under the administration of
President George W. Bush a decade ago, when appointees at the space agency
eliminated this line from the NASA mission statement: "To understand and protect
our home planet."

It's important to note that this line had only been added in 2002, but
Earth-centric work has been part of the agency's core mission under Republican
and Democratic administrations for decades, as Eric Berger laid out nicely in
the Houston Chronicle last year during probes by Republicans in Congress.

Indeed, setting aside the 2006 mission-statement adjustment, during the Bush
administration the agency's leaders acknowledged and even emphasized the
importance of space-based Earth science. Here's an excerpt from the 2006 NASA
Strategic Plan under administrator Michael W. Griffin:

Earth is changing on all spatial and temporal scales. The purpose of NASA's
Earth science program is to develop a scientific understanding of Earth's system
and its response to natural or human-induced changes and to improve prediction
of climate, weather, and natural hazards.

Earth science is science in the national interest. While scientific discovery
from space is inherent in the Agency's mission, NASA's programs in Earth science
also are central to three important Presidential initiatives: the Climate Change
Research Initiative, Global Earth Observation, and the Oceans Action Plan. NASA
pioneers new global environmental observations and research, and works with
other federal agencies to improve the operational services they provide to the
Nation. These services include: weather forecasting; climate prediction; natural
hazard assessment, prediction, and response; and environmental management,
including air quality forecasting and land use assessment.

As for NASA's $19-billion annual budget, most of the money is still spent on
space-focused projects, both basic science and technology and existing systems.

About $1.5 billion is for (non Earth) planetary science, including spending on
Mars missions and development of a mission to Jupiter's moon Europa.

The $2 billion for Earth science includes vital projects like sustaining the
43-year Landsat record of global land-imaging measurements. Science clarifying
human-driven climate change and its impacts of human communities and ecosystems
is a subset of this broader suite of research projects.

It seems nearly impossible to break out a budget for NASA (or other agency)
research that specifically focuses on climate change driven by greenhouse gases
(the main focus of Trump's advisors). I tried a decade ago and tried again this
morning, with no success. (There has to be a grad student who wants to dig in on
this?)

You can sift the NASA budget request for 2017 and the $2.68-billion Global
Change Research Program budget for 2017 ($1.54 billion of NASA's Earth science
research is including, constituting 58 percent of that total).

In his victory speech on Nov. 9, Trump pledged to listen to people with
differing views:

For those who have chosen not to support me in the past, of which there were a
few people, I'm reaching out to you for your guidance and your help so that we
can work together and unify our great country.

Before the Trump administration coalesces and locks in views on how to
prioritize NASA's work and budget, not to mention the wider sweep of federal and
federally-funded research on planet-scale environmental change and risks, I hope
some of the views below are considered.

To start, here's the query I sent late last week to Navarro (with a request to
forward the note to Walker, as well), copying James Carafano, a Trump advisor on
foreign policy who has proposed in his work at the Heritage Foundation
eliminating the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy):

I appreciate many of the points you (Peter N) and Bob Walker have made in recent
output (SpaceNews.com) related to NASA's future and global-change research.

For several years during the George W. Bush administration, for instance, I
tried to get a consolidated budget across 13 agencies for climate change
research and always came up short. It is a bit of a morass.

But I find it worrying that the call to shift scientific research on Earth
systems and change out of NASA isn't paired with a call to raise the profile of
the U.S. Global Change Research Program, created under President George H.W.
Bush in 1989.

I see a compelling argument that, wherever it happens, "Earth-centric" science
(as per Walker/Navarro) needs to be given emphasis, particularly as humanity
goes through a period of peak population (~9 billion) and resource appetites in
the next generation or so.

Why disrupt existing centers of excellence when invigorated cross-agency
coordination could assure the goals and efforts in this arena reflect national
priorities and are carried out efficiently?

Also, given that Earth is a planet, it's not clear to me why planet-scale risks
(not just greenhouse-driven climate change) would be better studied at the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration or the like. The fine-grain
focus of those agencies can miss big-picture change. Should the U.S. Geological
Survey - which does a great job with earthquakes, volcanoes, etc. - be charged
with assessing what a mega-eruption like Tambora 201 years ago would do to
climate, crops, etc. now? That's clearly a multi-agency question requiring lots
of NASA input.

At the international scale, there's a similar gap in clarifying, and planning,
for rare but catastrophic geo-hazards with global scope, as a European Science
Foundation paper concluded last year.

Would love to discuss....

I'll post an update when I hear from them or the transition team (I forwarded
the note there, as well).

Here's some of the input I got over the holiday weekend.

The first reply came from Bill Gail, the chief technology officer of Global
Weather Corporation, a past president of the American Meteorological Society and
co-chairman of the National Academies' 2017 Decadal Survey for Earth Science and
Applications from Space:

Neal Lane, Molly Macauley, and I wrote about the need for a strategic approach
to Earth information in a 2007 Houston Chronicle op-ed motivated by
recommendations from the 2007 National Academy of Sciences Decadal Survey. This
addresses your comment about [agency] integration, but also the critical
linkages between science and business.

Yes, Walker makes some good points. As we noted in the op-ed, U.S. agencies are
not optimally structured for the Earth information mission. If Walker were to
focus on achieving this optimization, his points might deserve serious
attention. But he gives away his bias with comments such as "politically correct
environmental monitoring."

Whatever your perspectives on climate, environmental science/monitoring is
foundational to any society. He seems to suggest it has little inherent value.
What if we applied his logic to other information domains? Should we complain
that economics is so judgmental, and thus subject to being "political correct,"
that the U.S. government should refrain from its use in planning future budgets?

 As with economics, we need Earth information to plan our future:
infrastructure, effective agriculture, efficient supply chains, disaster
prevention. If politics is intertwined, we should unravel it to the extent
possible - but not throw out the entire field along the way....

If the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) or National
Science Foundation were really better homes for Earth science, it would make
sense to adjust agency roles. But NOAA's culture and processes are not
consistent with exploratory Earth science, and the N.S.F. has no expertise in
space. Moving NASA science to them would involve big commitments to their
restructuring and budgets. Given this..., it seems NASA is currently the right
place. That, I believe, is the un-politicized answer.

Russell "Rusty" Schweickart, an Apollo 9 astronaut who has devoted recent years
to improving humans' capacity to identify and possibly deflect asteroids or
other near-Earth objects offered this trenchant thought:

When it comes to understanding the home planet, as a whole, as an integrated
system that supports life, it seems to me NASA is best positioned to provide
this service to humanity.

Here's Waleed Abdalati, a University of Colorado Earth scientist who was chief
scientist at NASA through 2011 and 2012 and is the other co-chairman of the 2017
Decadal Survey mentioned above:

I think Bill said it extremely well.  The only thing I would add is when it
comes to building satellites there is an efficiency/benefit that comes from
having the spacecraft development infrastructure for Earth observations in the
same organization that builds spacecraft for other purposes - planetary and
astrophysics. There are procedures and practices that have evolved over decades
in this pursuit that would have to be reconstituted.... Building spacecraft that
work is hard, and it is in the interests of the nation, I believe, to have those
engineering capabilities for Earth science in an organization that regularly
does this for space exploration as a whole....

What is really needed is a thoughtful well-integrated Earth observation strategy
that goes well beyond figuring out what goes to what agency. At least when the
responsibility lies essentially with NASA, strategic planning can occur within
the Agency. If it distributed among multiple agencies, or in the hands of an
agency that has a mission that is much more focused than the broader
understanding of the Earth, we are at great risk.

Abdalati also noted that the emphasis on NASA's role studying Earth dates from
the Reagan administration, during which the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration Act of 1958 was amended in 1985 to add as an objective "the
expansion of human knowledge of the Earth" along with "phenomena in the
atmosphere and space."

This reply came from Alice Hill, who just left the Obama White House after
serving on the National Security Council with a focus on climate change and
security:

I agree we need better coordination among the science agencies (although the
U.S. Global Change Research Program should be doing much of this, in theory) and
the operational agencies. In my experience the real challenge has been getting
the science into actionable format for the policy makers and then to the
operators. We also need the policy makers to better frame the questions that
they need the scientists help on. As my swan song in the Obama Administration, I
led the development of the President's Memorandum on Climate Change and National
Security.

That was our initial attempt at defining the issues and questions at least on
national security. The document sets up a task force chaired by the Office of
Science and Technology Policy and the National Security Council and requires an
action plan by the end of the Obama administration.

Of course, it's not clear what happens to that work on January 20. But, based on
the dozens of interagency meetings held to get to this document (which as with
most presidential orders reflects agency consensus), I believe there is deep
support among career employees to continue this work. And after decades of
government employment, it's my observation that career employees can often
accomplish a lot even in the face of unsupportive leadership. Of course, the
urgency with which we must address the climate challenge makes this a very
worrisome approach.

To answer your question, as with other crosscutting risks such as cyber security
and biological threats, no federal agency or entity is well positioned to
integrate the risk management challenge. In the federal government, in my
experience, agencies often act like humans - except in a crisis, they prefer to
avoid having to follow another agency's direction.

Amy Luers, who is wrapping up a year spent working on climate resilience and
information at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, sent
these insights:

There seem to be two distinct but related issues here: (1) Maintaining and
strengthening data collection, (2) Coordinating and integrating science for
managing systemic risks.

My experience is that agency collaboration ranges from poor to failure when it
is around program development - and there is competition.  But if all agencies
come to the table as equals around solving problems then collaboration improves.
This is why my focus while at O.S.T.P. has been public-private collaborations,
and working through the Global Change Research Program to address problems.  A
couple of examples that I developed include: the Partnership for Resilience and
Preparedness  and Resilience Dialogues.

In both of these, multiple agencies come together to help communities solve
problems, draw on their programs and look for synergies and opportunities to
leverage non-government efforts.  When people in agencies are looking to solve
problems - interagency collaboration can really work.

I think Alice's approach to national security was similar - get agencies around
the table to address a problem - not simply coordinate programs.

On integrating science on systemic risks, the structure for that integration
does not exist. I also believe that we may need to approach this through
public-private collaborations.  But of course the U.S. government would need to
play a pivotal role in this.

Reading |

"NASA emphasizes importance of Earth science given concerns about budget cuts,"
by Jeff Foust, published in Space News on Nov. 11.

"Under Trump, NASA May Turn a Blind Eye to Climate Change," by Lee Billings,
published by Scientific American on Nov. 23.

"Advocate for Eliminating OSTP Appointed to Trump Transition Team," Mitch
Ambrose, American Institute of Physics Science Policy News, Nov. 23.

Postscript | * Updated at asterisks. Related Twitter items:

A collection of scientific societies and education organizations, led by the
American Association for the Advancement of Science, have sent President-elect
Trump a letter urging him to name a cabinet-level science advisor. This may be
hard to square with the views of Trump's foreign policy advisor James Carafano
(see links in the post and here):

Science .orgs urge Trump to name cabinet-level science advisor.
https://t.co/w9ZS2NPsuA Hard to square with @JJCarafano advisory role?

- Andy Revkin (@Revkin)29 Nov 16

Here's the second detailed critique of Robert Walker's assertions on NASA
climate science from the blogging astronomer Phil Plait:

Phil Plait (@BadAstronomer) redoubles criticism of Trump advisor's disastrous
plan to gut NASA Earth science. https://t.co/kIUbvyGuGa @Slate

- Andy Revkin (@Revkin)28 Nov 16

David Titley, a retired Navy rear admiral and former Oceanographer of the Navy,
has written perhaps the best overview of the value NASA Earth science provides
to society and why more such work is needed, not less:

My thoughts on @NASAEarth funding in a #TrumpTransition https://t.co/ykkwseNclI
via @ConversationUS

- David Titley (@dwtitley)1 Dec 16

Coda | Dot Earth's 2,800-plus posts will live on, but I'm moving to ProPublica
on Dec. 5. Read the back story behind this blog at Times Insider, my reflection
on 30 years of climate reporting and stay connected with me on Twitter or
Facebook.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 28, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Morning Agenda: Trump's Business and Potential Conflicts

BYLINE: AMIE TSANG

SECTION: BUSINESS; dealbook

LENGTH: 669 words



HIGHLIGHT: The president-elect's business operations around the globe have
created a menu for potential controversy


"It is uncharted territory, really in the history of the republic, as we have
never had a president with such an empire both in the United States and
overseas."

- Michael J. Green, who served on the National Security Council in the
administration of George W. Bush.

Donald J. Trump's holdings around the world have created a menu of possible
complications for him. Here are some of the potential sources of controversy
that The New York Times has identified:

The Trump Hotel Rio de Janeiro is one of Mr. Trump's branding deals in which he
does not have an equity stake. It is part of a broad investigation by a federal
prosecutor who is examining whether illicit commissions and bribes resulted in
apparent favoritism by two pension funds that invested in the project.

Several of Mr. Trump's real estate ventures in India are being built through
companies with family ties to India's most important political party - making it
more likely that Indian government officials will give special favors benefiting
his projects.

In Ireland and Scotland, executives from Mr. Trump's golf courses have been
waging two separate battles with local officials. The most recent dispute
involves the Trump Organization's plans to build a flood-prevention sea wall at
a course on the Irish coast.

In Turkey, officials including President Recep Tayyip Erdogan have demanded that
Mr. Trump's name be removed from Trump Towers in Istanbul after he called for a
ban on Muslims entering the United States. More recently, Mr. Trump has come to
Mr. Erdogan's defense, fueling fears that Mr. Trump's policies toward Turkey
might be shaped by his commercial interests.

These potential conflicts would not just create problems for Mr. Trump. David J.
Kramer, who served as assistant secretary of state for democracy, human rights
and labor during the Bush administration, said they would also undermine decades
of efforts to promote government transparency.

"This will make it a little harder to be able to go out and proselytize around
these things," Mr. Kramer said.

More on Mr. Trump's approach to business and the presidency:

Wilbur L. Ross, the billionaire investor expected to be nominated as the next
commerce secretary, has been considered a hero or a villain during his career -
and not much in between. In his business of buying distressed companies, failure
can come with headlines about collapsed business and lost jobs. But there is a
big reward if the turnaround strategy works.

Big ideas can lead to great things when they are encouraged by a president and
ambitious thinking has led to big infrastructure projects like the Hoover Dam
and the Golden Gate Bridge. To live up to his opportunity, Mr. Trump should
bring in the best of the business community, rather than the most loyal, writes
Robert J. Shiller, Sterling Professor of Economics at Yale.

Mr. Trump's emphasis on tax cuts and deregulation is ushering in an '80s-like
euphoria among the rich, writes Robert Frank, CNBC's wealth editor. The question
is whether, in this age in which wealth culture is about whitewall minimalism
rather than gold, Mr. Trump can make wealth glamorous again.

Coming Up

The shopping weekend comes to an end with Cyber Monday. Thinking of picking up
Nintendo's new retro console? Think again. Even as retailers cut prices on other
electronic products, the Nintendo Entertainment System, which has been selling
out in a flash, is being resold for as much as $390 because the company has been
sluggish in responding to demand.

Arguments will be made on Tuesday before the European Court of Justice, which
will decide how Uber can operate across the European Union. Uber's rapid growth
has pitted it against traditional taxi services and local labor unions, which
have accused it of flouting transportation rules and disregarding working
standards. The Spanish taxi association filed legal proceedings against Uber,
claiming unfair competition. The court will decide whether Uber should be
treated as a transportation service or a digital platform.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 28, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Fidel Castro, Election Recount, Cyber Monday: Your Monday Briefing

BYLINE: SEAN ALFANO

SECTION: BRIEFING

LENGTH: 1129 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here's what you need to know to start your day.


 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here's the sign-up.)

Good morning.

Here's what you need to know:

Shooting reported at Ohio State University.

At least eight people were taken to the hospital this morning after reports of
an "active shooter" on campus.

One person is in critical condition, fire department officials in Columbus said.
Check back here for updates to this developing story.

Trump criticizes recount effort.

President-elect Donald J. Trump said on Twitter on Sunday that millions of
Americans had voted illegally, although he did not provide evidence. His
comments are likely to reverberate this week as Hillary Clinton's campaign said
it would participate in a review of Wisconsin's election results.

Efforts to seek recounts are also underway in Michigan and Pennsylvania.

Separately, Mr. Trump's transition team remained divided over candidates for
secretary of state. One of his top advisers spoke out publicly against Mitt
Romney, a critic of Mr. Trump's and a former Massachusetts governor under
consideration for the post.

Trump's partners abroad and at home.

Over the holiday weekend, we examined the president-elect's ventures in the
Philippines, India, Brazil and Turkey. Former U.S. officials have expressed
concern that his dealings overseas could affect foreign policy.

We also traced the rise of Stephen K. Bannon from his years in the Navy and at
Goldman Sachs to his courting of politicians who share his worldview. Mr.
Bannon, whose critics call him racist, sexist and an Islamophobe, may have found
in Mr. Trump the vessel for the political and social upheaval he desires.

Cuba after Castro.

The government in Havana has announced nine days of national mourning for Fidel
Castro, who died on Friday at 90.

Allegiance to Mr. Castro and to the revolution he started has slipped from
generation to generation across the country. Our reporter in Havana met one
family torn over Mr. Castro's legacy.

Political scandals abroad.

President Park Geun-hye of South Korea stayed holed up in her official residence
over the weekend and, through a spokesman, denied her involvement in an
influence-peddling scandal that could lead to an impeachment vote.

In Afghanistan, the vice president Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum is accused of
beating and taking a political rival hostage.

North Dakota pipeline protests.

The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, citing safety concerns, plans to closeaccess
to federal lands near the Dakota Access pipeline project by Dec. 5, according to
a letter sent to the chairman of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe.

The agency had previously said it would not evict protesters because of concerns
for freedom of speech.

Business

American retailers are gearing up for Cyber Monday with deals aimed at
attracting online shoppers. Here's our guide to some of the season's most
popular tech items.

Is Uber a taxi service or a digital platform? The European Court of Justice will
consider that question this week as it determines how the company can operate
across the European Union.

We recently looked at how billionaires laid the groundwork for increased legal
assaults on the news media.

"They can treat suing the press as an investment," our reporter observed.

U.S. stocks were up on Friday. Here's a snapshot of global markets.

Over the weekend

In an upset, François Fillon, a former prime minister of France who has called
for a crackdown on immigration, won a runoff vote to represent the center-right
in the presidential election in the spring.

The victory sets up a possible face-off with the country's far-right party,
which has received a lift from the triumph of Mr. Trump in the U.S.

The Israeli military said it had killed four militants linked to the Islamic
State after they attacked Israeli forces in the Golan Heights.

The confrontation appeared to be the first of its kind between Israel and
ISIS-affiliated forces based in Syria.

Joe Corré, son of the Sex Pistols' former manager, set fire to music memorabilia
to protest Punk London, an event he considers too mainstream.

"Moana" was No. 1 at the North American box office, becoming the second-best
Thanksgiving opening on record, behind "Frozen."

Noteworthy

Floating across the U.S.-Mexico border.

A ferry in a small Texas town has been offering trips to and from Mexico for
decades. Take a ride across the Rio Grande in our latest 360 video.

More than a chess tournament.

A weekslong chess battle that could end today in New York City pits Sergey
Karjakin of Russia against the defending world champion, Magnus Carlsen of
Norway.

Tensions reminiscent of the Cold War have given the match geopolitical
overtones.

Born to move.

Our bodies, and specifically our hearts, want to be worked at least moderately,
said a scientist who led a recent study on the cardiovascular health of a tribe
in Tanzania.

A daily regimen of walking and lifting helped to protect hearts against disease,
the study found.

Recipes of the day.

If you still have leftover turkey, here are three ways to use it: in a mole
verde, in pho or for tikka masala. While you cook, read about New York's
vanishing diner culture.

Back Story

That banana you might be having for breakfast is probably a Cavendish, the most
widely available variety of one of the world's most popular fruits.

But a deadly fungus is on the march, and the Cavendish's lack of genetic
diversity is raising fears of a possible "bananapocalypse."

The killer fungus, a strain of Panama Disease called Tropical Race 4, has spread
to China, Taiwan, Indonesia, Malaysia and the Northern Territory of Australia,
and it has recently been found in Africa and the Middle East.

With its yellow peel and seedless fruit, the Cavendish makes up 95 percent of
bananas sold worldwide, according to the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization.

The previous dominant variety, the Gros Michel, was decimated by another form of
the fungus in the 1950s. Growers turned to the Cavendish, whose strength lies
more in disease resistance than flavor. (One expert said it "had been considered
something close to junk.")

The Cavendish is thought to have arrived in England in the 1800s from Mauritius,
taking its name from the family in whose greenhouse it was cultivated.
Missionaries eventually carried it to the Pacific islands.

One scientist sees a silver lining in newly urgent efforts to save the seeds
from wild bananas. "Race 4 is a threat," he says, "but it's also an opportunity
to start growing more diversity."

Remy Tumin contributed reporting.

_____

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of
the briefing should help.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the
web all morning.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stores Push Cyber Sales as U.S. Awaits Jobs Data

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE WEEK AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 772 words


Here's a look at what's coming up this week:

RETAIL INDUSTRY

The end of a four-day (shopping) weekend.

Retailers have geared up for Cyber Monday, the last day of deals in what has
become a four-day shopping weekend. After Black Friday, Small Business Saturday
and Super Sunday, retailers will offer online deals on Monday on everything from
televisions to Tupperware, with a focus on electronics. Rachel Abrams

TECHNOLOGY

Defining Uber's place within the European Union.

Uber will head to Europe's highest court on Tuesday to determine how its popular
ride-booking service can operate across the European Union. The company has
faced vocal opposition from traditional taxi services and labor unions, and the
hearing at the European Court of Justice will decide whether Uber must comply
with the region's onerous transportation rules or can operate mostly unhindered.
A decision in the case is expected by March. Mark Scott

ECONOMICS

Economic growth data expected to improve.

On Tuesday, at 8:30 a.m., the Commerce Department will release its updated
estimate of economic growth in the third quarter. The revision is expected to
show a slight increase, with the estimate rising to 3 percent from an initial
figure of 2.9 percent. In addition, the government will provide an estimate of
corporate profits in the quarter, which could show an increase, lifted by a
recovery in energy prices and continued tech and retail spending. Nelson D.
Schwartz

OIL INDUSTRY

OPEC to weigh oil output agreement.

On Wednesday, all eyes in the oil market will be on Vienna, where ministers of
the 14-member OPEC cartel will try to reach an agreement on curbs in output
aimed at reducing an oil glut. OPEC came to a general understanding on
production cuts in Algiers in September, but has since struggled with assigning
targets to each member. Analysts say that a credible deal would probably bolster
prices, now close to $50 a barrel, in the short term. Another failure to reach
consensus, however, similar to what occurred in Doha, Qatar, in April, may send
prices tumbling. Stanley Reed

AUTO INDUSTRY

Volkswagen to report on emissions settlement.

The judge overseeing class-action lawsuits against Volkswagen for its emissions
cheating scandal will hold a hearing on Wednesday to get an update on progress
toward a settlement involving 80,000 vehicles with 3-liter diesel motors. The
vehicles are mostly Audis but also include some Porsche and Volkswagen sport
utility vehicles. During the status hearing before Judge Charles R. Breyer in
Federal District Court in San Francisco, Volkswagen could face questions about
new indications that emissions cheating was even more extensive than the company
has already disclosed. Jack Ewing

ECONOMY

Bank of England to reflect on British finances.

The Bank of England is expected on Wednesday to provide its semiannual outlook
on the stability of the British financial system, as well as the results of its
latest stress test of the ability of the nation's biggest banks to survive a
future financial crisis. Chad Bray

Eurozone jobless numbers expected to decline.

Official data coming out on Thursday is expected to show that eurozone
unemployment fell below 10 percent in October for the first time since 2011.
Analysts expect the jobless rate to slip to 9.9 percent, compared with 10
percent in September, continuing the agonizingly slow recovery from an economic
crisis that began almost a decade ago. Many countries, including Spain, France
and Italy, continue to post jobless numbers well above 10 percent. Jack Ewing

AUTO INDUSTRY

Automakers to share November sales data.

Automakers report their November sales in the United States on Thursday. Overall
sales have been slower this year than last, but automakers hope that a holiday
season rush, helped by incentives they offered for Black Friday, will buttress
those numbers. Zach Wichter

ECONOMY

U.S. awaits hiring and unemployment report.

On Friday, at 8:30 a.m., the Labor Department will release the latest data on
hiring and unemployment in November. Economists expect the report to show that
the economy added 175,000 jobs and that the unemployment rate remained unchanged
from October's level of 4.9 percent. Average hourly earnings are thought to have
risen by 0.2 percentage point, bringing the yearly increase to 2.8 percent.

This is the last jobs report before policy makers at the Federal Reserve meet in
December to decide whether to raise interest rates. Most economists expect the
Fed to tighten monetary policy, although a very weak jobs number could make that
slightly less certain. Nelson D. Schwartz




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/27/business/week-ahead-november-28-in-business-ne
ws.html

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The suits against Volkswagen involve thousands of Audis.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY YVES HERMAN/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pentagon: Looking for a Few Good Hackers

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 448 words


In June 2015, the Office of Personnel Management announced that foreign hackers
had stolen the personnel records of millions of federal employees, one of the
most damaging cyberattacks in history. Just weeks later, the office of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff shut down its unclassified email system for several days after
officials detected that it had been breached.

These serious intrusions came months after a group affiliated with the Islamic
State briefly commandeered the Central Command's Twitter account and rebranded
it as the ''Cyber Caliphate.''

Given the enormity of the problem, one of the responses by the Department of
Defense might seem befuddling. They've asked hackers willing to play by strict
rules to find vulnerabilities in some of the Pentagon's unclassified computer
system.

Well-intentioned computer security experts routinely scan the internet in search
of vulnerabilities, which they often map out and report. Until now, doing that
on Pentagon sites carried the considerable legal risk of running afoul of the
Computer Fraud and Abuse Act.

''Hack the Pentagon'' kicked off in April with a monthlong trial program that
attracted 1,400 so-called white hackers to fiddle with Department of Defense
websites on the hunt for weak points that could be exploited to steal data or
jam systems. Those hackers spotted 138 weaknesses, according to the Pentagon,
and were paid $75,000 in rewards.

Encouraged by the results, the Defense Department last week  announced a formal
policy  permitting outside computer experts to test for vulnerabilities in the
system and report them to the department. Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter
called the initiative ''a 'see something, say something' policy for the digital
domain.'' Those hackers won't be paid for their reports, but officials hope they
will do it out of a sense of duty.

In addition, the department has started ''Hack the Army,'' a program asking
hackers who have been approved by the government to test the Army's recruiting
websites for weaknesses.

While these efforts represent just one aspect of the federal government's effort
to protect secret data more rigorously, Mr. Carter deserves credit for
championing an unconventional approach.

''Hack the Pentagon'' and ''Hack the Army'' allows defense officials to draw
from a talent pool that includes people who would not ordinarily feel at home in
the military's hierarchical culture. It may well turn into an unconventional
recruitment pipeline for an organization that always benefits from outside
perspectives and carefully calibrated disruption.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/28/opinion/pentagon-looking-for-a-few-good-hacker
s.html

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nostalgic Shoppers Overwhelm Nintendo

BYLINE: By ZACH SCHONBRUN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1059 words


When she heard that Nintendo was planning to reproduce its iconic Nintendo
Entertainment System video game console for the holiday season, Emily Bradbury
put a note on her calendar and set an alarm on her phone.

She was not interested in buying it for her children. She wanted it for her
husband.

''He's 40 years old and grew up with a Nintendo,'' Ms. Bradbury said. ''It's a
nostalgia thing.''

Since its release on Nov. 11, the NES Classic Edition, a smaller version of the
original console introduced to North America in 1985, has become one of the
hottest gift items of the year. It has struck a chord especially among older
millennials and younger members of Generation X, who may have found in it a
video game system to share with their children -- if they don't just keep it for
themselves.

It retails for $60, with one original controller, and comes preloaded with 30
classic games, including Super Mario Bros., Donkey Kong, The Legend of Zelda and
Tecmo Bowl.

But this trip down memory lane has not been without headaches. Nintendo has been
sluggish in responding to the demand, resulting in huge markups on the secondary
market, including on sites like eBay, where the consoles were being resold for
as much as $390. Those higher prices are sure to stand out even more on Monday,
when many other brands and retailers cut prices for Cyber Monday, the online
version of Black Friday.

On the release date, most retailers, including Amazon and GameStop, sold out
almost immediately. (Pre-orders had sold out over the summer.) Walmart kept a
very limited supply in stock that it trickled out in online flash sales over the
last two weeks. The consoles sold out within two minutes each time.

Heeding her calendar warnings and alarms, Ms. Bradbury tried to order the NES
online through Amazon and Walmart but could not act quickly enough. She even
enlisted friends to visit nearby Target and Best Buy stores in Wichita, Kan.,
the closest big city to her home. But they, too, returned empty-handed.

''I thought it would be a bunch of us 40-something people going after it, but it
won't be much of a big deal,'' said Ms. Bradbury, the member services director
for the Kansas Press Association, a trade organization for Kansas newspapers.
''I was shocked.''

But Michael Pachter, a Wedbush Securities analyst, said he was not surprised by
the intense demand or the low supply, which he considered an intentional move by
Nintendo to garner attention, knowing that it could restock before the holiday
shopping season was over.

''The Classic is sold out for three reasons: It's nostalgic, it's cheap and
Nintendo clearly didn't ship enough of them,'' Mr. Pachter said in an email,
adding: ''There is plenty of time to stock the channel. They may miss Black
Friday, but they won't miss Xmas.''

In a statement, Nintendo said that it was ''working hard to keep up with
consumer demand.''

''There will be a steady flow of additional systems through the holiday shopping
season and into the new year,'' the statement read. The company declined to
comment further.

David Cole, the chief executive of DFC Intelligence, a market research firm,
said there was a lot riding on Nintendo's ability to satisfy demand in the next
few weeks. The company is introducing a new product, Nintendo Switch, in 2017,
which it hopes will make up for its lagging sales of the Wii U and its late
entry into mobile gaming. Pokémon Go, which was released over the summer and is
partially owned by Nintendo, was the company's first major effort in mobile
gaming, and it was a sensation.

Mr. Cole said buyers were pursuing the NES Classic Edition mostly for nostalgia,
but he thought the console could potentially make older customers interested in
future Nintendo products.

''They had really lost their brand identity the past two years,'' Mr. Cole said.
''This was the kind of thing that was perfect for bringing that back.''

But such a plan will work, Mr. Cole added, only if Nintendo manages to restock
before the holidays are over.

''If they don't, they really miss out on an opportunity,'' he said. ''That
demand might not carry over into 2017.''

Jim Silver, editor of TTPM, a toy review website, says that nostalgic items have
been big this year, and that retailers are recognizing that many of the children
who grew up in the 1980s are starting families of their own. He noted that
Stretch Armstrong figurines, and Strawberry Shortcake and Teddy Ruxpin dolls
have all begun making comebacks. The NES is no different.

''This is not 8-year-olds saying, 'I need to have Zelda,''' Mr. Silver said.
''This is adults saying, 'These were my favorite games. I get to play them
again.'''

But shopping for a hot holiday item, even online, is hardly simple today. And
those who have managed to acquire the new NES at the retail price seem to have
benefited from extensive planning, research and luck -- even strategizing since
July, when Nintendo announced its plans to release the NES.

Michael Salazar, from Sacramento, Calif., managed to place a request to
pre-order a console on July 22 through Amazon's British website. When it arrived
last week, shipped directly from Edinburgh, Mr. Salazar was elated.

He then used a secondary site, which tracks inventory at Target stores, to
monitor whether any consoles had arrived locally. When he saw that a nearby
Target had received three, he rushed there at 7:30 a.m. on a Sunday to buy one
as a present for his brother-in-law.

Now, he is looking for a third to give as a gift.

''I'm 38; that's my childhood,'' Mr. Salazar said. ''Nintendo was always a very
important piece of my life.''

Amanda Schluer, of Rocklin, Calif., had the foresight in July to set an alert on
Amazon for one minute before the release date. Then she watched the seconds tick
down.

''I've sat and waited for Garth Brooks tickets the same way,'' Ms. Schluer said.
''Just wait until the second they go on sale and push the button.''

By acting quickly, Ms. Schluer, 38, managed to buy a console. She and her
husband even took their NES to Los Angeles to play with family over
Thanksgiving.

''We have a Wii, and my kids never play it,'' said Ms. Schluer of her two
daughters, ages 6 and 10.

''That's the good thing about the old retro games,'' Ms. Schluer added. ''They
are fun, they're age-appropriate, and it's something we can all play together.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/27/business/nintendos-new-console-may-feed-your-n
ostalgia-if-you-can-get-one.html

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Salazar and his family play an NES Classic Edition, one
of the hottest gifts of the year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELI HILLER FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (B1)
 On the secondary market, NES Classic Edition consoles have been resold for as
much as $390. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NINTENDO) (B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Dot Earth)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Under Trump, Will NASA's Space Science Include Planet Earth?

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2598 words



HIGHLIGHT: Advisors to President-elect Trump see little merit in NASA
emphasizing &#8220;Earth-centric&#8221; science.


You have probably heard that two of President-elect Donald J. Trump's advisors
have been pushing for a reboot of the mission of NASA, focusing more on
exploration of extraterrestrial space and less on studying the one planet we
know is inhabited by7.35 billion people, with at least a couple of billion more
coming along before humanity's puberty-style growth spurt shifts to something
new past 2050.

Media coverage so far has focused on the prospect of the Trump administration
killing off NASA's research on climate change, but the issues are much broader.

The advisors are Peter Navarro, an economist and professor of business at the
University of California, Irvine, and Robert Walker, a former member of Congress
from southeastern Pennsylvania who was chairman of the House Science Committee
from 1995 to 1997 and chairman of the Commission on the Future of the U.S.
Aerospace Industry, which issued a final report in 2002.

Their view is most succinctly articulated in this line from a Spacenews.com
commentary on Oct. 19: "NASA should be focused primarily on deep space
activities rather than Earth-centric work that is better handled by other
agencies." Walker stirred things afresh with comments on the "politicized"
nature of NASA climate science published in The Guardian last Wednesday.

For starters, their argument presumes that "Earth-centric work" is best handled
by other agencies. Read on for more on that point, including input from a
variety of analysts, including former NASA chief scientist Waleed Abdalati (now
at the University of Colorado, Boulder).

A similar priority shift at NASA was pursued under the administration of
President George W. Bush a decade ago, when appointees at the space agency
eliminated this line from the NASA mission statement: "To understand and protect
our home planet."

It's important to note that this line had only been added in 2002, but
Earth-centric work has been part of the agency's core mission under Republican
and Democratic administrations for decades, as Eric Berger laid out nicely in
the Houston Chronicle last year during probes by Republicans in Congress.

Indeed, setting aside the 2006 mission-statement adjustment, during the Bush
administration the agency's leaders acknowledged and even emphasized the
importance of space-based Earth science. Here's an excerpt from the 2006 NASA
Strategic Plan under administrator Michael W. Griffin:

Earth is changing on all spatial and temporal scales. The purpose of NASA's
Earth science program is to develop a scientific understanding of Earth's system
and its response to natural or human-induced changes and to improve prediction
of climate, weather, and natural hazards.

Earth science is science in the national interest. While scientific discovery
from space is inherent in the Agency's mission, NASA's programs in Earth science
also are central to three important Presidential initiatives: the Climate Change
Research Initiative, Global Earth Observation, and the Oceans Action Plan. NASA
pioneers new global environmental observations and research, and works with
other federal agencies to improve the operational services they provide to the
Nation. These services include: weather forecasting; climate prediction; natural
hazard assessment, prediction, and response; and environmental management,
including air quality forecasting and land use assessment.

As for NASA's $19-billion annual budget, most of the money is still spent on
space-focused projects, both basic science and technology and existing systems.

About $1.5 billion is for (non Earth) planetary science, including spending on
Mars missions and development of a mission to Jupiter's moon Europa.

The $2 billion for Earth science includes vital projects like sustaining the
43-year Landsat record of global land-imaging measurements. Science clarifying
human-driven climate change and its impacts of human communities and ecosystems
is a subset of this broader suite of research projects.

It seems nearly impossible to break out a budget for NASA (or other agency)
research that specifically focuses on climate change driven by greenhouse gases
(the main focus of Trump's advisors). I tried a decade ago and tried again this
morning, with no success. (There has to be a grad student who wants to dig in on
this?)

You can sift the NASA budget request for 2017 and the $2.68-billion Global
Change Research Program budget for 2017 ($1.54 billion of NASA's Earth science
research is including, constituting 58 percent of that total).

In his victory speech on Nov. 9, Trump pledged to listen to people with
differing views:

For those who have chosen not to support me in the past, of which there were a
few people, I'm reaching out to you for your guidance and your help so that we
can work together and unify our great country.

Before the Trump administration coalesces and locks in views on how to
prioritize NASA's work and budget, not to mention the wider sweep of federal and
federally-funded research on planet-scale environmental change and risks, I hope
some of the views below are considered.

To start, here's the query I sent late last week to Navarro (with a request to
forward the note to Walker, as well), copying James Carafano, a Trump advisor on
foreign policy who has proposed in his work at the Heritage Foundation
eliminating the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy):

I appreciate many of the points you (Peter N) and Bob Walker have made in recent
output (SpaceNews.com) related to NASA's future and global-change research.

For several years during the George W. Bush administration, for instance, I
tried to get a consolidated budget across 13 agencies for climate change
research and always came up short. It is a bit of a morass.

But I find it worrying that the call to shift scientific research on Earth
systems and change out of NASA isn't paired with a call to raise the profile of
the U.S. Global Change Research Program, created under President George H.W.
Bush in 1989.

I see a compelling argument that, wherever it happens, "Earth-centric" science
(as per Walker/Navarro) needs to be given emphasis, particularly as humanity
goes through a period of peak population (~9 billion) and resource appetites in
the next generation or so.

Why disrupt existing centers of excellence when invigorated cross-agency
coordination could assure the goals and efforts in this arena reflect national
priorities and are carried out efficiently?

Also, given that Earth is a planet, it's not clear to me why planet-scale risks
(not just greenhouse-driven climate change) would be better studied at the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration or the like. The fine-grain
focus of those agencies can miss big-picture change. Should the U.S. Geological
Survey - which does a great job with earthquakes, volcanoes, etc. - be charged
with assessing what a mega-eruption like Tambora 201 years ago would do to
climate, crops, etc. now? That's clearly a multi-agency question requiring lots
of NASA input.

At the international scale, there's a similar gap in clarifying, and planning,
for rare but catastrophic geo-hazards with global scope, as a European Science
Foundation paper concluded last year.

Would love to discuss....

I'll post an update when I hear from them or the transition team (I forwarded
the note there, as well).

Here's some of the input I got over the holiday weekend.

The first reply came from Bill Gail, the chief technology officer of Global
Weather Corporation, a past president of the American Meteorological Society and
co-chairman of the National Academies' 2017 Decadal Survey for Earth Science and
Applications from Space:

Neal Lane, Molly Macauley, and I wrote about the need for a strategic approach
to Earth information in a 2007 Houston Chronicle op-ed motivated by
recommendations from the 2007 National Academy of Sciences Decadal Survey. This
addresses your comment about [agency] integration, but also the critical
linkages between science and business.

Yes, Walker makes some good points. As we noted in the op-ed, U.S. agencies are
not optimally structured for the Earth information mission. If Walker were to
focus on achieving this optimization, his points might deserve serious
attention. But he gives away his bias with comments such as "politically correct
environmental monitoring."

Whatever your perspectives on climate, environmental science/monitoring is
foundational to any society. He seems to suggest it has little inherent value.
What if we applied his logic to other information domains? Should we complain
that economics is so judgmental, and thus subject to being "political correct,"
that the U.S. government should refrain from its use in planning future budgets?

 As with economics, we need Earth information to plan our future:
infrastructure, effective agriculture, efficient supply chains, disaster
prevention. If politics is intertwined, we should unravel it to the extent
possible - but not throw out the entire field along the way....

If the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) or National
Science Foundation were really better homes for Earth science, it would make
sense to adjust agency roles. But NOAA's culture and processes are not
consistent with exploratory Earth science, and the N.S.F. has no expertise in
space. Moving NASA science to them would involve big commitments to their
restructuring and budgets. Given this..., it seems NASA is currently the right
place. That, I believe, is the un-politicized answer.

Russell "Rusty" Schweickart, an Apollo 9 astronaut who has devoted recent years
to improving humans' capacity to identify and possibly deflect asteroids or
other near-Earth objects offered this trenchant thought:

When it comes to understanding the home planet, as a whole, as an integrated
system that supports life, it seems to me NASA is best positioned to provide
this service to humanity.

Here's Waleed Abdalati, a University of Colorado Earth scientist who was chief
scientist at NASA through 2011 and 2012 and is the other co-chairman of the 2017
Decadal Survey mentioned above:

I think Bill said it extremely well.  The only thing I would add is when it
comes to building satellites there is an efficiency/benefit that comes from
having the spacecraft development infrastructure for Earth observations in the
same organization that builds spacecraft for other purposes - planetary and
astrophysics. There are procedures and practices that have evolved over decades
in this pursuit that would have to be reconstituted.... Building spacecraft that
work is hard, and it is in the interests of the nation, I believe, to have those
engineering capabilities for Earth science in an organization that regularly
does this for space exploration as a whole....

What is really needed is a thoughtful well-integrated Earth observation strategy
that goes well beyond figuring out what goes to what agency. At least when the
responsibility lies essentially with NASA, strategic planning can occur within
the Agency. If it distributed among multiple agencies, or in the hands of an
agency that has a mission that is much more focused than the broader
understanding of the Earth, we are at great risk.

Abdalati also noted that the emphasis on NASA's role studying Earth dates from
the Reagan administration, during which the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration Act of 1958 was amended in 1985 to add as an objective "the
expansion of human knowledge of the Earth" along with "phenomena in the
atmosphere and space."

This reply came from Alice Hill, who just left the Obama White House after
serving on the National Security Council with a focus on climate change and
security:

I agree we need better coordination among the science agencies (although the
U.S. Global Change Research Program should be doing much of this, in theory) and
the operational agencies. In my experience the real challenge has been getting
the science into actionable format for the policy makers and then to the
operators. We also need the policy makers to better frame the questions that
they need the scientists help on. As my swan song in the Obama Administration, I
led the development of the President's Memorandum on Climate Change and National
Security.

That was our initial attempt at defining the issues and questions at least on
national security. The document sets up a task force chaired by the Office of
Science and Technology Policy and the National Security Council and requires an
action plan by the end of the Obama administration.

Of course, it's not clear what happens to that work on January 20. But, based on
the dozens of interagency meetings held to get to this document (which as with
most presidential orders reflects agency consensus), I believe there is deep
support among career employees to continue this work. And after decades of
government employment, it's my observation that career employees can often
accomplish a lot even in the face of unsupportive leadership. Of course, the
urgency with which we must address the climate challenge makes this a very
worrisome approach.

To answer your question, as with other crosscutting risks such as cyber security
and biological threats, no federal agency or entity is well positioned to
integrate the risk management challenge. In the federal government, in my
experience, agencies often act like humans - except in a crisis, they prefer to
avoid having to follow another agency's direction.

Amy Luers, who is wrapping up a year spent working on climate resilience and
information at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, sent
these insights:

There seem to be two distinct but related issues here: (1) Maintaining and
strengthening data collection, (2) Coordinating and integrating science for
managing systemic risks.

My experience is that agency collaboration ranges from poor to failure when it
is around program development - and there is competition.  But if all agencies
come to the table as equals around solving problems then collaboration improves.
This is why my focus while at O.S.T.P. has been public-private collaborations,
and working through the Global Change Research Program to address problems.  A
couple of examples that I developed include: the Partnership for Resilience and
Preparedness  and Resilience Dialogues.

In both of these, multiple agencies come together to help communities solve
problems, draw on their programs and look for synergies and opportunities to
leverage non-government efforts.  When people in agencies are looking to solve
problems - interagency collaboration can really work.

I think Alice's approach to national security was similar - get agencies around
the table to address a problem - not simply coordinate programs.

On integrating science on systemic risks, the structure for that integration
does not exist. I also believe that we may need to approach this through
public-private collaborations.  But of course the U.S. government would need to
play a pivotal role in this.

|

"NASA emphasizes importance of Earth science given concerns about budget cuts,"
by Jeff Foust, published in Space News on Nov. 11.

"Under Trump, NASA May Turn a Blind Eye to Climate Change," by Lee Billings,
published by Scientific American on Nov. 23.

"Advocate for Eliminating OSTP Appointed to Trump Transition Team," Mitch
Ambrose, American Institute of Physics Science Policy News, Nov. 23.

| Dot Earth's 2,800-plus posts will live on, but I'm moving to ProPublica on
Dec. 5. Read the back story behind this blog at Times Insider, my reflection on
30 years of climate reporting and stay connected with me on Twitter or Facebook.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 29, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

New York Today: Giving Tuesday;
New York Today

BYLINE: JONATHAN WOLFE

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 888 words



HIGHLIGHT: Tuesday: A day of generosity, new heights for "Hamilton" and local
flights to Cuba.


Updated, 7:42 a.m.

Good morning on this torrential Tuesday.

In the summer of 2012, in his 4th floor office at the 92nd Street Y, a community
center for Jewish life on the Upper East Side, Henry Timms hatched an idea that
would spread generosity across the globe.

There, Mr. Timms, the Y's executive director, sat down with a colleague and
delivered a simple, six-word pitch:

"Black Friday. Cyber Monday. Giving Tuesday."

Exhilarated, the two took the idea and ran with it.

And so have others.

#GivingTuesday, celebrated on the Tuesday after Thanksgiving, has since grown
into a global movement of fund-raising for nonprofit groups; collection drives
for food, blood and clothing banks; and even random acts of kindness.

Last year $117 million was raised for charities in more than 70 countries.

"The way the calendar was developing, someone was going to grab Tuesday," Mr.
Timms said. "We wanted to make it about philanthropy," he added, not
consumerism.

And like a potent internet meme, the idea is replicating itself: There's now a
#GivingShoesDay, for shoe donations, and a #CUNYTuesday, a fund-raising drive
for the City University of New York college system.

That's precisely the point.

"We wanted to make generosity go viral," said Asha Curran, the chief innovation
officer at the 92nd Street Y.

So they created the #GivingTuesday hashtag, intentionally leaving out any
mention of the 92nd Street Y. This increased #GivingTuesday's shareability and
effectiveness, Ms. Curran said.

"It was a gift to the world, and the world has given back," she added.

Let's keep that in mind the next time someone says New Yorkers are
self-involved.

Feeling generous today? You can join #GivingTuesday by sharing a story on
Facebookabout how you supported a nonprofit organization (and possibly win a
$10,000 prize for the nonprofit from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation);
donate your time or money to a nonprofit in your community; or inspire others by
sharing an #unselfie, a picture of you doing something selfless.

Here's what else is happening:

Weather

Go back to bed. Today is not looking pretty.

Heavy rain. Thunderstorms. Fog. Wind. Soggy socks. Need we say more?

Hair forecast: Medusa.

In the News

"Hamilton" took in $3.3 million last week, setting a record for an
eight-performance week by a Broadway show. [New York Times]

A principal at DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx, who had been tasked with
turning around the troubled school, is undone by an investigation. [New York
Times]

The Grammy Awards ceremony is poised to return to New York City in 2018, the
first time since 2003. [New York Times]

In so-called Havana on the Hudson, a New Jersey community where the once-large
population of Cuban immigrants has dwindled, bitter feelings persist about Fidel
Castro. [New York Times]

Regular commercial flights between New York and Cuba have begun. [CBS]

The same teenager who dared to climb One World Trade Center in 2014 is in
trouble again, for apparently hanging off other rooftops and cranes across the
city. [NBC]

Madison Square Garden is suing a Knicks season-ticket holder over an unpaid bill
of $97,000. [New York Post]

Are "gravity knives" tools or weapons, and should they be legalized in New York?
[WNYC]

Meet New York City's talented "20 Under 20." [Crain's]

After a childhood of abuse, bullying and hardships, a single mother tries to
provide her daughter with the peace and stability she never had. [New York
Times]

Today's Metropolitan Diary: "An Encounter With Ralph Branca Long Before the
'Shot'"

Scoreboard: Islanders put outFlames, 2-1. Thunder crashes over Knicks, 112-103.

For a global look at what's happening, see Your TuesdayBriefing.

Coming Up Today

The Columbus Circleholiday market opens for the season at 59th Street and
Central Park West on the Upper West Side. 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. [Free admission]

Vy Higginsen's Gospel Choir of Harlem and Grace VanderWaal perform at an outdoor
tree lighting ceremony at 19 Fulton Street in Lower Manhattan. 6:30 p.m. [Free]

If the rain lets up, you can enjoy the warm fall weather with a run beginning at
Reservoir Bridge in Silver Lake Park on Staten Island. 7 p.m. [Free]

The authors of the book "Atlas Obscura: An Explorer's Guide to the World's
Hidden Wonders" speak at Word Bookstore in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. 7 p.m. [Free]

Learn how to play wheelchair basketball with the Brooklyn Nets wheelchair
basketball team at the Al Oerter Recreation Center in Flushing Meadows-Corona
Park, Queens. 8 p.m. [Recreation center membership required]

Rangers host Hurricanes, 7 p.m. (MSG). Nets host Clippers, 7:30 p.m. (YES).
Devils at Jets, 8 p.m. (MSG+).

Commute

Subway  and PATH

Railroads: L.I.R.R., Metro-North, N.J. Transit, Amtrak

Roads: Check traffic map or radio report on the 1s or the 8s.

Alternate-side parking: in effect until Dec. 8.

Ferries: Staten Island Ferry, New York Waterway, East River Ferry

Airports: La Guardia, J.F.K., Newark

New York Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till late
morning. You can receive it via email.

For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.

What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at
nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.

Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on
Twitter.

You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump's Response to Plans for Recount

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 617 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Trump Promotes a Baseless Claim on Illegal Voting'' (front page, Nov. 28):

Donald Trump claims that millions of people voted illegally. If he truly
believes that, then he is duty-bound to demand an immediate recount and see to
it that the election was carried out legally. If not, then he should recognize
that this is no longer the campaign and that he can no longer simply make stuff
up any time he feels like it. Enough.

JEREMY DRIESEN

New York

To the Editor:

During the election campaign, when Donald Trump was asked if he would accept the
election results, he said ''I'll keep you in suspense,'' and for this he was
pilloried mercilessly by The Times and the rest of the liberal media. Hillary
Clinton said she was ''horrified.''

Now that the election is over, the shoe is on the other foot, and it is Hillary
Clinton and the liberals who are not accepting the clear results. However, now
there is no outcry, no expression of outrage from The Times and the other
liberal media.

MAX WISOTSKY

Highland Park, N.J.

To the Editor:

As a voter who supported Hillary Clinton throughout the campaign, I think that
her participation in a recount is misguided. At this point, rather than carrying
out a sense of duty to the millions of us who voted for her, Mrs. Clinton and
her supporters should be working to help the country heal, accept what we cannot
change, and find ways to mitigate the damage of a Trump presidency.

ANNE-MARIE HISLOP

Chicago

To the Editor:

Thank you, New York Times, for your front-page headline: ''Trump Promotes a
Baseless Claim on Illegal Voting.'' Words like ''baseless,'' right up high,
derail attempts to create fake news.

My husband and I subscribed to your paper right after the election because we
believe that a free and independent press is vital, and we want to support it.
Thanks for keeping it real and honest!

LAURA HOLMES

Brewster, N.Y.

To the Editor:

As a former newspaper reporter, I am saddened by the continuing blur between
editorial commentary and news coverage. In another age, the word ''baseless'' in
your front-page headline would have been reserved for the editorial page, where
it belongs.

The Times and other respectable news organizations should resist the temptation
to join others (most notably Fox News) as they drop their conclusions into news
stories. Please allow me, the reader, to draw a conclusion for myself.

DAVID E. LANGFORD

Atlanta

To the Editor:

Re ''U.S. Officials Stand By Vote Despite Fears'' (front page, Nov. 26):

I strongly disagree with the Obama administration's position. As a political
scientist, and someone who has worked as an election observer around the world,
I believe that there are two important reasons that warrant a recount in
Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.

First, the elections were conducted in a context of credible threats of external
interference and cyber-manipulation. These were serious enough to warrant not
only a look into the current situation, but also a bigger discussion about our
voting methods in general.

Second, the recount will draw attention to the problem of electronic voting
machines that do not produce a paper trail. Election observation agencies have
long advised states to remove or not to adopt such machines, because of the
threat of software manipulation and the inability of conducting an actual
recount. This is one of the main reasons that a lot of developed countries have
shied away from this technology.

We should treat the recount as an opportunity to address and deal with these
issues now.

KLARA BILGIN

Fairfax, Va.

The writer is dean of the School of Public and International Affairs at Virginia
International University.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/28/opinion/donald-trumps-response-to-plans-for-a-
recount.html

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Morning Agenda: Trump's Business and Potential Conflicts

BYLINE: By AMIE TSANG

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 675 words


''It is uncharted territory, really in the history of the republic, as we have
never had a president with such an empire both in the United States and
overseas.''

-- Michael J. Green, who served on the National Security Council in the
administration of George W. Bush.

Donald J. Trump's holdings around the world have created a menu of possible
complications for him. Here are some of the potential sources of controversy
that The New York Times has identified:

The Trump Hotel Rio de Janeiro is one of Mr. Trump's branding deals in which he
does not have an equity stake. It is part of a broad investigation by a federal
prosecutor who is examining whether illicit commissions and bribes resulted in
apparent favoritism by two pension funds that invested in the project.

Several of Mr. Trump's real estate ventures in India are being built through
companies with family ties to India's most important political party -- making
it more likely that Indian government officials will give special favors
benefiting his projects.

In Ireland and Scotland, executives from Mr. Trump's golf courses have been
waging two separate battles with local officials. The most recent dispute
involves the Trump Organization's plans to build a flood-prevention sea wall at
a course on the Irish coast.

In Turkey, officials including President Recep Tayyip Erdogan have demanded that
Mr. Trump's name be removed from Trump Towers in Istanbul after he called for a
ban on Muslims entering the United States. More recently, Mr. Trump has come to
Mr. Erdogan's defense, fueling fears that Mr. Trump's policies toward Turkey
might be shaped by his commercial interests.

These potential conflicts would not just create problems for Mr. Trump. David J.
Kramer, who served as assistant secretary of state for democracy, human rights
and labor during the Bush administration, said they would also undermine decades
of efforts to promote government transparency.

''This will make it a little harder to be able to go out and proselytize around
these things,'' Mr. Kramer said.

More on Mr. Trump's approach to business and the presidency:

Wilbur L. Ross, the billionaire investor expected to be nominated as the next
commerce secretary, has been considered a hero or a villain during his career --
and not much in between. In his business of buying distressed companies, failure
can come with headlines about collapsed business and lost jobs. But there is a
big reward if the turnaround strategy works.

Big ideas can lead to great things when they are encouraged by a president and
ambitious thinking has led to big infrastructure projects like the Hoover Dam
and the Golden Gate Bridge. To live up to his opportunity, Mr. Trump should
bring in the best of the business community, rather than the most loyal, writes
Robert J. Shiller, Sterling Professor of Economics at Yale.

Mr. Trump's emphasis on tax cuts and deregulation is ushering in an '80s-like
euphoria among the rich, writes Robert Frank, CNBC's wealth editor. The question
is whether, in this age in which wealth culture is about whitewall minimalism
rather than gold, Mr. Trump can make wealth glamorous again.

Coming Up

The shopping weekend comes to an end with Cyber Monday. Thinking of picking up
Nintendo's new retro console? Think again. Even as retailers cut prices on other
electronic products, the Nintendo Entertainment System, which has been selling
out in a flash, is being resold for as much as $390 because the company has been
sluggish in responding to demand.

Arguments will be made on Tuesday before the European Court of Justice, which
will decide how Uber can operate across the European Union. Uber's rapid growth
has pitted it against traditional taxi services and local labor unions, which
have accused it of flouting transportation rules and disregarding working
standards. The Spanish taxi association filed legal proceedings against Uber,
claiming unfair competition. The court will decide whether Uber should be
treated as a transportation service or a digital platform.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/28/business/dealbook/donald-trump-business-confli
ct-uber-cyber-monday.html

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 1, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

Automobile Sales Rise on Postelection Confidence

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 605 words



HIGHLIGHT: Black Friday deals also helped pull car sales out of their slump,
increasing the chance that 2016 could set a record for new vehicle sales.


Black Friday deals and postelection confidence helped pull November auto sales
in the United States out of their recent slump - and increased the chances that
2016 could set a record for new vehicle sales.

Total sales were expected to rise 4 percent for the month to 1.37 million units,
according to Kelley Blue Book. That would be the highest November for United
States sales on record, beating the previous record of 1.32 million set in 2001.

Bill Fay, Toyota division general manager, said November's sales were so good
that the industry might even break last year's sales record of 17.47 million.

"I think it will be right around last year's record, maybe a little bit less,"
Mr. Fay said. "But I think either way everybody will sign up for a lifetime of
this."

Sales at General Motors increased 10 percent over November 2015. Ford's sales
were up 5 percent, and Toyota and Hyundai both saw 4 percent sales increases.
Honda's sales were up 6.5 percent and Nissan's sales rose 7.5 percent. Even
Volkswagen, which has struggled all year because of its diesel cheating scandal,
had an increase in sales of 24 percent.

Fiat Chrysler bucked the trend, with sales falling 14 percent as it made big
cuts in sales to rental car companies. Other automakers were expected to report
sales later on Thursday.

Higher incentives enticed buyers who sat out much of the fall. July was the last
month that sales increased over the same period in the previous year.

The average discount per vehicle last month was near $4,000, up by $600 from the
same month last year, said Jeff Schuster, senior vice president for forecasting
at the consulting firm LMC Automotive.

Automakers and dealers have always flooded the airwaves with holiday ads in
December. But Black Friday is taking on increasing importance. Since 2013, sales
during the weekend after Thanksgiving have been nearly double the sales during a
typical November weekend, according to car shopping site Edmunds.com. Before
2013, automakers only saw a 39 percent increase in sales that weekend.

"Dealers and automakers clearly have found a way in recent years to break
through the Black Friday clutter and connect with more car shoppers," said
Jessica Caldwell, Edmunds' senior director of industry analysis. An offer for
$10,000 bonus cash on a 2016 Kia K900 was among the Black Friday deals Edmunds
cited.

Because automakers seem to be willing to discount, Mr. Schuster said the
industry probably will have a strong December and probably will break last
year's records.

"I don't think they're necessarily going to pull back with all the holiday deals
in December," Mr. Schuster said.

Automakers said:

" Sales at G.M. rose 10 percent to 252,644. Its Buick, GMC and Cadillac brands
all had double-digit percentage increases in sales, while Chevrolet sales were
up 8 percent.

" Toyota's sales rose 4 percent to 197,645. Luxury Lexus sales were down 1
percent, but Toyota brand sales rose 5 percent.

" Ford's sales rose 5 percent to 197,574. Lincoln brand sales were up 19 percent
thanks to the new Continental sedan and the redesigned MKX SUV.

" Fiat Chrysler's sales fell 14 percent to 160,827. All brands saw double-digit
percentage declines except Ram, which was up 12 percent on strong sales of
pickups and the ProMaster commercial van.

" Honda's sales rose 6.5 percent to 122,924, a November record for the company.
Luxury Acura sales dropped 5 percent, but Honda brand sales were up 8 percent.
Honda's best seller, the Accord sedan, had sales rise 6 percent.

" Nissan Motor's sales were up 7.5 percent to 115,136, which was a November
record.

" Hyundai's sales rose 4 percent to 62,507, a November record.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 2, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

Weighing a Last-Minute Trip to Cuba;
Update

BYLINE: STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 1071 words



HIGHLIGHT: President-elect Donald J. Trump threatened again to end the détente
with Cuba, casting into doubt the future of easy travel to the country.


During a historic week in which major airlines made their first commercial
flights to Havana, and just days after the death of Fidel Castro,
President-elect Donald J. Trump threatened again to end the détente with Cuba,
casting into doubt the future of easy travel to the country.

"If Cuba is unwilling to make a better deal for the Cuban people, the
Cuban/American people and the U.S. as a whole, I will terminate deal," Mr. Trump
said on Twitter on Nov. 28.

If Mr. Trump were to change travel rules regarding Cuba, many Americans will
likely be disappointed: Travel agents and tour companies say that they are
continuing to see healthy interest in Cuba. Sojern, a travel technology company
that works with more than 800 travel brands and independent hotels, said that
Cuba was in the top five most searched and booked destinations on Cyber Monday.
And Cuba was the fastest-growing destination for American travelers in 2016 - up
153 percent from 2015 - according to Squaremouth, which compares travel
insurance policies from major United States providers. Additionally, "the number
of U.S. travelers buying travel insurance for trips to Cuba more than doubled
this year," said Rachael Taft, a spokeswoman for Squaremouth, yet another
indication that people are planning trips there.

Even so, there doesn't appear to be a rush to visit Cuba in the weeks before Mr.
Trump takes office. Low commercial airfares suggest that supply is greater than
demand, and there are still spots on scheduled tours.

Rather, it seems that travelers who are eager enough to have already booked
trips aren't backing out, while those who planned to hold off until Cuba has
more hotels and services are still waiting.

"We have not had any clients say they wouldn't go or that they were concerned
based on recent comments by our President-elect," said Honey Moss, a travel
consultant in Miami with Protravel International, one of the largest traditional
travel agencies in North America. But "several clients have asked what would
happen if they planned a trip and then the borders were closed again," she said.
"We have been advised by the partners we work with in Cuba that all deposits and
payments would be refunded."

Sandie Wiesenthal, a luxury travel consultant with Protravel International in
Beverly Hills, Calif., who visited Cuba in October, said that her clients
haven't expressed concerns about the new administration's viewpoint on Cuba.
Instead, they're sticking to their own views. "The excitement is still there,"
she said. "Clients who want to visit before it changes still feel the same way,
and the people who wanted to wait until there was more of a structure for
tourism continue to have the same thoughts."

Since the election, Overseas Adventure Travel, a tour company that offers Cuba
land tours through its Grand Circle Foundation - such as Cuba Revealed: Cultural
Pathways from Camaguey to Havana and Cuba: A Bridge Between Cultures - said that
it has seen a slight drop in sales, but not by much. "Given that our travelers
are older and grew up during the Castro era, they're extremely curious about
Cuba and hopeful to experience it," said Priscilla L. O'Reilly, a spokeswoman
for the company.

In other words, some travelers are taking a wait-and-see approach, as Gabe
Saglie, a senior editor with the travel deals site, Travelzoo, put it. Many were
doing that even before the election, research by Travel Leaders Group shows,
saying they would "go immediately" to Cuba if all government restrictions were
lifted (there are currently only a dozen categories of authorized travel
outlined by the Treasury Department; travelers can't just go to Cuba for a beach
vacation). "On the other hand," Mr. Saglie said of Mr. Trump's threats, "even a
slim potential for changes is enough to have another batch of intrigued
travelers making the decision to go sooner rather than later." One of the
reasons Travelzoo named Cuba to its 2016 list of places expected to have
bargains in the new year was because of the uncertainty beyond this year.

Indeed, airfares to Cuba are low, which industry experts say suggests that
demand for commercial flights has not caught up with supply. Delta, JetBlue and
American just began offering commercial flights to and from Havana. Southwest
will begin flying there on Dec. 12. "It's also telling that American is cutting
back its daily flights to Cuba in February," said Mr. Saglie. According to news
reports, a spokesman for American said the airline plans to drop three daily
round-trip flights, but that the decision was made before the election and was
not based on Mr. Trump's recent comments but rather lower than expected demand.
As The Points Guy blog, founded by Brian Kelly, put it in a post: "While
airlines are famously hush-hush about their operational performance, the slew of
cheap fares to Cuba show that airlines have been struggling to fill seats. Now,
we have much more solid proof that US-Cuba flights aren't working out the way
airlines expected." Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said there
will soon be 110 daily flights from the United States to Cuba.

Despite the rising number of available commercial flights, hotels are only just
now opening or planning to open, another reason some travelers would rather wait
to plan a trip. "Our main problem is securing space in lovely hotels for our
clients, as there aren't that many in Havana yet," said Ms. Moss of Miami. In
June, Four Points by Sheraton Havana became the first American hotel to open in
Cuba in nearly 60 years. The month before, Carnival Corporation became the first
U.S. cruise company to sail from the United States to Cuba in more than 50
years. And most recently, Airbnb announced that Havana was one of the first
dozen cities in the world to offer Airbnb "experiences" (activities like cooking
and painting lessons) as part of the company's new Trips platform.

These and other brands are banking on Cuba remaining open to travelers, despite
Mr. Trump's remarks. Pamela Lassers, a spokeswoman for Abercrombie & Kent, said
in an email that the company's Cuba by Land & Sea cruises in March have waiting
lists or limited availability.

"We are hopeful," she said, "that President-elect Trump's extensive business and
hospitality background will make him receptive to the value that travel can play
in improving international relations."

Related Articles


     ·    What Impact Will Trump Have on Tourism?
     ·    How to Go to Cuba Now


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 2, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

Against All Odds, One Match Was All He Needed;
Vows

BYLINE: VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

SECTION: FASHION; weddings

LENGTH: 1840 words



HIGHLIGHT: "Being an algorithm believer, I thought I should just trust it, and
that maybe she was truly, and literally, the one for me," the groom said.


Once upon an algorithm, a widower in San Francisco who was an expert in online
consumer behavior took to the internet to find the one.

"I was still hurting," said Bill Tancer, whose wife of 17 years had succumbed to
complications of breast cancer in July 2014. "But I felt it was time to put
myself out there and start dating again."

Mr. Tancer did exactly that in January 2015, when he created a dating profile
and sent it to eHarmony. He fully expected to receive numerous matches, wishing
to find among them a woman who could potentially become, as he put it, "my one
and only."

But Mr. Tancer, then 48, received a reply that seemed to come not from an
algorithm in a search engine, but from a genie in a bottle. He was granted
exactly what he had wished for: one match, and one match only, an improbable
result that brought to his screen the profile of Erika Holiday, a 38-year-old
forensic psychologist and adjunct professor of psychology at the University of
Southern California, some 300 miles away.

"I didn't know if there was something wrong with my computer," he joked, "or if
there was something wrong with me."

Nevertheless, that Dr. Holiday had emerged as Mr. Tancer's only match based
solely on his criteria for finding a suitable mate, suggested that he had
perhaps found a perfect mate.

"She was single and successful, brilliant and gorgeous, and she had never been
married," he said. "Being an algorithm believer, I thought I should just trust
it, and that maybe she was truly, and literally, the one for me."

Though Mr. Tancer began receiving additional matches after changing some of his
relationship criteria, he chose to reach out only to Dr. Holiday, "but not
before doing a ton of research on her," he said.

He was soon reading online excerpts from a book Dr. Holiday had co-written in
2009 called "Mean Girls, Meaner Women" He also watched numerous YouTube videos
of Dr. Holiday, as a psychology expert, chatting on-air with "Dr. Phil," and
various other television hosts on CNN, Fox News and the E! channel.

Dr. Holiday, who said she had received "well over a hundred matches," on
eHarmony, took an immediate and less cautious approach to Mr. Tancer. They were,
in her estimation, a match made in cyber heaven.

"I'm a very intuitive person, and the moment I saw him, without ever having met
him, I said to myself, 'He's the one, he's the one,'" Dr. Holiday said. "I
thought he was so handsome and he seemed so intelligent."

She enlisted the help of her mother, Eva Yomtobian, "to help me look up some
stuff about him," she said. "But deep down inside, I just had that feeling."

Though her mother was equally ecstatic, she chose to remain cautiously
optimistic.

"It sounded so good, everything just fit and I was really excited for Erika,"
said Ms. Yomtobian, a retired social worker for the Los Angeles County
Department of Children and Family Services.

"Bill was really nice," she said. "He was educated. He was intelligent. He was
Jewish. But I wasn't going to get overly excited just yet."

Dr. Holiday and Mr. Tancer exchanged several messages, shared a handful of
late-night phone calls and eventually made arrangements to meet a few weeks
later at a tiny coffee shop in the Sherman Oaks area of Los Angeles, where Dr.
Holiday had lived her entire life.

"Driving past the shop, I saw her standing outside," Mr. Tancer said. "I wasn't
prepared for the fact that she was even more beautiful than her profile
pictures. I parked and nervously walked up to her and introduced myself."

Before long, Mr. Tancer was feeling comfortable and opening up about the sorrow
and pains of being a widower, which struck an emotional chord with Dr. Holiday.

"He had been married for a long time," she said. "It was only about six months
since his wife had passed away, and listening to him talk about how much he
cared for her, and how he never left her side and was a faithful husband, well,
I thought what an amazing man. Through that story I could see how loving and
kind he was, it told me a lot about his character and what kind of person he
truly was. I was hooked."

True to the algorithm that brought them together, they became an immediate item.

"I was used to being the quintessential caretaker for guys I dated," Dr. Holiday
said. "And along comes this guy who is treating me with such respect and
kindness. It was overwhelming but in a good way. He was Prince Charming, and I
wasn't used to Prince Charming."

They were soon bonding over their "fascination of people and what makes them
tick," as Mr. Tancer put it, and talking most things California.

He learned that she graduated from California State University, Northridge, and
received a master's degree in psychology from Pepperdine University, as well as
a doctor of psychology degree from Phillips Graduate Institute in Los Angeles.
(He also learned the she was born Erika Yomtobian, but had legally changed her
surname, which means holiday in Hebrew.)

She learned that he grew up in Palm City, Fla., a son of Sheila and Martin
Tancer, real estate agents who moved the family to Atlantis, Fla., when he was
12. He graduated from the University of Florida, and received a law degree from
Mercer University in Georgia before joining the Navy in 1990. He was first
stationed at the Kings Bay Trident Submarine Base in Georgia, where he was a
lieutenant in the United States Naval Reserve and a special assistant United
States attorney for the Southern District of Georgia.

The Navy eventually steered him to California, as he was transferred to the
Naval Medical Center in Oakland in 1993 for his last year and a half of service.

He was living in Burlingame, Calif., in 2008 when he wrote the first of two
books centered on data and algorithms: "Click: What Millions of People Are Doing
Online and Why it Matters," which became a New York Times best seller. He had
moved to San Mateo, Calif., by 2014, the year he wrote "Everyone's a Critic:
Winning Customers in a Review-Driven World."

"With Erika being a psychologist and me studying consumer behavior, we just had
so much in common," Mr. Tancer said. "We practically spoke the same language."

During the next four months, each took turns hopping aboard commuter flights to
spend weekends together, much to the delight of their friends and family.

"Bill would fly for like half an hour, have dinner with Erika, and then fly back
to San Francisco," said Vikain Hanounik, Dr. Holiday's best friend. "And the
next day Erika would fly out just to have lunch with him, they would just go
back and forth. I've never seen her happier."

The same was true for Mr. Tancer, said Ed Tancer, his older brother.

"I could tell by the way Billy talked about Erika that she was someone special,"
he said. "Billy's wife was sick for the majority of their marriage, it was a
very rough time for him, so we were thrilled when he found Erika."

In April 2015, Dr. Holiday invited Mr. Tancer to her parents' home in Malibu,
Calif., to meet them for the first time while celebrating Passover. Before
dinner ended, her mother and father, Luigi Bian (a filmmaker), were convinced
that their daughter had found the perfect match.

"They were so cute, holding hands the whole time, it was really sweet," Ms.
Yomtobian said. "He looked like he was really into her. As an older woman, I
knew it. It was there."

In July 2015, Mr. Tancer decided to move to Los Angeles to be with Dr. Holiday
and has since been working there as an independent marketing consultant to the
technology, financial services, travel and hospitality industries.

"I sold my house and moved there, and I haven't looked back since," Mr. Tancer
said. "In 2014, I didn't think it was possible to ever be happy again but Erika
proved me wrong.

"She's brought me unconditional love and she makes me laugh," he said. "But most
importantly, she's given me the gift of unbounded happiness and a reason to love
life again."

They were married Nov. 5 at the Beverly Hills home of the bride's brother,
Daniel Yomtobian, who described his sister in the years before Mr. Tancer came
clicking as "very focused on her work and her career, and pretty happy doing her
own thing."

"I'm sure she had been dating, but I hadn't heard about anybody in 10 years
before she met Bill," he said.

Most of the couple's 140 guests gathered in the backyard of the
Mediterranean-style house, a 15,000-square-foot mansion with palatial
floor-to-ceiling windows in the living room and a flowing terrace that offered
breathtaking views stretching from Los Angeles to the Santa Monica skyline, with
the Pacific Ocean barely visible in the hazy distance.

"By coming underneath this huppah, you two have built your first home together,"
Rabbi Joshua Knobel told the couple, who began exchanging vows as the sun set on
a warm evening.

"When I look at you, I see everything that is right with the universe," the
groom told his new bride. "I see beauty, kindness, intelligence, but most of
all, I see magic."

His perfect match had the perfect response.

"I feel like my life didn't truly start until meeting you," the bride said. "I
honestly didn't think it would be possible to experience a love and a
relationship like this."

"This is the best love story I have ever known," she added, "and I can't believe
it's mine."

Noah Gilbert contributed reporting from Beverly Hills, Calif.ON THIS DAYWhen
Nov. 5, 2016. Where In Beverly Hills, Calif., at the home of the bride's
brother. What They Wore The bride wore a strapless Martina Liana gown and
sparkly Christian Louboutin heels. The groom wore a Ralph Lauren dark blue suit,
a light blue Armani shirt and a patterned blue tie by Charvet. The Little
Details The two flower girls were the bride's nieces, Layla Yomtobian, 6, and
Hudsen Yomtobian, 20 months. The ring bearer was the bride's nephew, Sky
Yomtobian, 5. Last Hanukkah, Layla gave Mr. Tancer a card that read, "Happy
Chanukah, when are you going to marry my auntie and can I be the flower girl?"
Song and a Dance The bride walked down the aisle to a recording of an
instrumental version of the song "Sunrise Sunset" by the O'Neill Brothers Group.
She and the groom hired a professional dance instructor to choreograph their
first dance to Joe Cocker's version of "You Are So Beautiful." Pass the Fruit
The guests were served a special vegan wedding cake by Jamaica's Cakes. The
bride is vegan and the groom is vegan "everyday but Tuesdays," he said. Pardon
the Introduction Since they began living together, the couple have embarked on a
"How We Met" project, collecting more than 350 inspirational stories from other
couples telling how they initially came together. Those stories are posted on
the site: howwemetstory.com

PHOTOS: Top, the couple were married in Beverly Hills, Calif., at the home of
the bride's brother. Above, the bride added earrings to her ensemble, which
included a strapless Martina Liana gown. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IVAN KASHINSKY FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Off Broadway, Showmen Seal Their Biggest Deal
     ·    Geneviève DeBose and Tosin Akinnagbe: He's No Shakespeare. Romeo?
          Maybe.



Related Slideshows


     ·    A Match Made in Cyber Heaven


LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Against All Odds, One Match Was All He Needed

BYLINE: By VINCENT M. MALLOZZI; Noah Gilbert contributed reporting from Beverly
Hills, Calif.

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; VOWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1792 words


Once upon an algorithm, a widower in San Francisco who was an expert in online
consumer behavior took to the internet to find the one.

''I was still hurting,'' said Bill Tancer, whose wife of 17 years had succumbed
to complications of breast cancer in July 2014. ''But I felt it was time to put
myself out there and start dating again.''

Mr. Tancer did exactly that in January 2015, when he created a dating profile
and sent it to eHarmony. He fully expected to receive numerous matches, wishing
to find among them a woman who could potentially become, as he put it, ''my one
and only.''

But Mr. Tancer, then 48, received a reply that seemed to come not from an
algorithm in a search engine, but from a genie in a bottle. He was granted
exactly what he had wished for: one match, and one match only, an improbable
result that brought to his screen the profile of Erika Holiday, a 38-year-old
forensic psychologist and adjunct professor of psychology at the University of
Southern California, some 300 miles away.

''I didn't know if there was something wrong with my computer,'' he joked, ''or
if there was something wrong with me.''

Nevertheless, that Dr. Holiday had emerged as Mr. Tancer's only match based
solely on his criteria for finding a suitable mate, suggested that he had
perhaps found a perfect mate.

''She was single and successful, brilliant and gorgeous, and she had never been
married,'' he said. ''Being an algorithm believer, I thought I should just trust
it, and that maybe she was truly, and literally, the one for me.''

Though Mr. Tancer began receiving additional matches after changing some of his
relationship criteria, he chose to reach out only to Dr. Holiday, ''but not
before doing a ton of research on her,'' he said.

He was soon reading online excerpts from a book Dr. Holiday had co-written in
2009 called ''Mean Girls, Meaner Women'' He also watched numerous YouTube videos
of Dr. Holiday, as a psychology expert, chatting on-air with ''Dr. Phil,'' and
various other television hosts on CNN, Fox News and the E! channel.

Dr. Holiday, who said she had received ''well over a hundred matches,'' on
eHarmony, took an immediate and less cautious approach to Mr. Tancer. They were,
in her estimation, a match made in cyber heaven.

''I'm a very intuitive person, and the moment I saw him, without ever having met
him, I said to myself, 'He's the one, he's the one,''' Dr. Holiday said. ''I
thought he was so handsome and he seemed so intelligent.''

She enlisted the help of her mother, Eva Yomtobian, ''to help me look up some
stuff about him,'' she said. ''But deep down inside, I just had that feeling.''

Though her mother was equally ecstatic, she chose to remain cautiously
optimistic.

''It sounded so good, everything just fit and I was really excited for Erika,''
said Ms. Yomtobian, a retired social worker for the Los Angeles County
Department of Children and Family Services.

''Bill was really nice,'' she said. ''He was educated. He was intelligent. He
was Jewish. But I wasn't going to get overly excited just yet.''

Dr. Holiday and Mr. Tancer exchanged several messages, shared a handful of
late-night phone calls and eventually made arrangements to meet a few weeks
later at a tiny coffee shop in the Sherman Oaks area of Los Angeles, where Dr.
Holiday had lived her entire life.

''Driving past the shop, I saw her standing outside,'' Mr. Tancer said. ''I
wasn't prepared for the fact that she was even more beautiful than her profile
pictures. I parked and nervously walked up to her and introduced myself.''

Before long, Mr. Tancer was feeling comfortable and opening up about the sorrow
and pains of being a widower, which struck an emotional chord with Dr. Holiday.

''He had been married for a long time,'' she said. ''It was only about six
months since his wife had passed away, and listening to him talk about how much
he cared for her, and how he never left her side and was a faithful husband,
well, I thought what an amazing man. Through that story I could see how loving
and kind he was, it told me a lot about his character and what kind of person he
truly was. I was hooked.''

True to the algorithm that brought them together, they became an immediate item.

''I was used to being the quintessential caretaker for guys I dated,'' Dr.
Holiday said. ''And along comes this guy who is treating me with such respect
and kindness. It was overwhelming but in a good way. He was Prince Charming, and
I wasn't used to Prince Charming.''

They were soon bonding over their ''fascination of people and what makes them
tick,'' as Mr. Tancer put it, and talking most things California.

He learned that she graduated from California State University, Northridge, and
received a master's degree in psychology from Pepperdine University, as well as
a doctor of psychology degree from Phillips Graduate Institute in Los Angeles.
(He also learned the she was born Erika Yomtobian, but had legally changed her
surname, which means holiday in Hebrew.)

She learned that he grew up in Palm City, Fla., a son of Sheila and Martin
Tancer, real estate agents who moved the family to Atlantis, Fla., when he was
12. He graduated from the University of Florida, and received a law degree from
Mercer University in Georgia before joining the Navy in 1990. He was first
stationed at the Kings Bay Trident Submarine Base in Georgia, where he was a
lieutenant in the United States Naval Reserve and a special assistant United
States attorney for the Southern District of Georgia.

The Navy eventually steered him to California, as he was transferred to the
Naval Medical Center in Oakland in 1993 for his last year and a half of service.

He was living in Burlingame, Calif., in 2008 when he wrote the first of two
books centered on data and algorithms: ''Click: What Millions of People Are
Doing Online and Why it Matters,'' which became a New York Times best seller. He
had moved to San Mateo, Calif., by 2014, the year he wrote ''Everyone's a
Critic: Winning Customers in a Review-Driven World.''

''With Erika being a psychologist and me studying consumer behavior, we just had
so much in common,'' Mr. Tancer said. ''We practically spoke the same
language.''

During the next four months, each took turns hopping aboard commuter flights to
spend weekends together, much to the delight of their friends and family.

''Bill would fly for like half an hour, have dinner with Erika, and then fly
back to San Francisco,'' said Vikain Hanounik, Dr. Holiday's best friend. ''And
the next day Erika would fly out just to have lunch with him, they would just go
back and forth. I've never seen her happier.''

The same was true for Mr. Tancer, said Ed Tancer, his older brother.

''I could tell by the way Billy talked about Erika that she was someone
special,'' he said. ''Billy's wife was sick for the majority of their marriage,
it was a very rough time for him, so we were thrilled when he found Erika.''

In April 2015, Dr. Holiday invited Mr. Tancer to her parents' home in Malibu,
Calif., to meet them for the first time while celebrating Passover. Before
dinner ended, her mother and father, Luigi Bian (a filmmaker), were convinced
that their daughter had found the perfect match.

''They were so cute, holding hands the whole time, it was really sweet,'' Ms.
Yomtobian said. ''He looked like he was really into her. As an older woman, I
knew it. It was there.''

In July 2015, Mr. Tancer decided to move to Los Angeles to be with Dr. Holiday
and has since been working there as an independent marketing consultant to the
technology, financial services, travel and hospitality industries.

''I sold my house and moved there, and I haven't looked back since,'' Mr. Tancer
said. ''In 2014, I didn't think it was possible to ever be happy again but Erika
proved me wrong.

''She's brought me unconditional love and she makes me laugh,'' he said. ''But
most importantly, she's given me the gift of unbounded happiness and a reason to
love life again.''

They were married Nov. 5 at the Beverly Hills home of the bride's brother,
Daniel Yomtobian, who described his sister in the years before Mr. Tancer came
clicking as ''very focused on her work and her career, and pretty happy doing
her own thing.''

''I'm sure she had been dating, but I hadn't heard about anybody in 10 years
before she met Bill,'' he said.

Most of the couple's 140 guests gathered in the backyard of the
Mediterranean-style house, a 15,000-square-foot mansion with palatial
floor-to-ceiling windows in the living room and a flowing terrace that offered
breathtaking views stretching from Los Angeles to the Santa Monica skyline, with
the Pacific Ocean barely visible in the hazy distance.

''By coming underneath this huppah, you two have built your first home
together,'' Rabbi Joshua Knobel told the couple, who began exchanging vows as
the sun set on a warm evening.

''When I look at you, I see everything that is right with the universe,'' the
groom told his new bride. ''I see beauty, kindness, intelligence, but most of
all, I see magic.''

His perfect match had the perfect response.

''I feel like my life didn't truly start until meeting you,'' the bride said.
''I honestly didn't think it would be possible to experience a love and a
relationship like this.''

''This is the best love story I have ever known,'' she added, ''and I can't
believe it's mine.''

ON THIS DAYWhen Nov. 5, 2016. Where In Beverly Hills, Calif., at the home of the
bride's brother. What They Wore The bride wore a strapless Martina Liana gown
and sparkly Christian Louboutin heels. The groom wore a Ralph Lauren dark blue
suit, a light blue Armani shirt and a patterned blue tie by Charvet. The Little
Details The two flower girls were the bride's nieces, Layla Yomtobian, 6, and
Hudsen Yomtobian, 20 months. The ring bearer was the bride's nephew, Sky
Yomtobian, 5. Last Hanukkah, Layla gave Mr. Tancer a card that read, ''Happy
Chanukah, when are you going to marry my auntie and can I be the flower girl?''
Song and a Dance The bride walked down the aisle to a recording of an
instrumental version of the song ''Sunrise Sunset'' by the O'Neill Brothers
Group. She and the groom hired a professional dance instructor to choreograph
their first dance to Joe Cocker's version of ''You Are So Beautiful.'' Pass the
Fruit The guests were served a special vegan wedding cake by Jamaica's Cakes.
The bride is vegan and the groom is vegan ''everyday but Tuesdays,'' he said.
Pardon the Introduction Since they began living together, the couple have
embarked on a ''How We Met'' project, collecting more than 350 inspirational
stories from other couples telling how they initially came together. Those
stories are posted on the site: howwemetstory.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/02/fashion/weddings/against-all-odds-one-match-wa
s-all-he-needed.html

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, the couple were married in Beverly Hills, Calif., at the
home of the bride's brother. Above, the bride added earrings to her ensemble,
which included a strapless Martina Liana gown. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IVAN KASHINSKY
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 7, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

How to Be Mindful While Holiday Shopping;
Meditation for Real Life

BYLINE: DAVID GELLES

SECTION: WELL; mind

LENGTH: 187 words



HIGHLIGHT: Shopping for the holidays doesn't have to be stressful if you stay
mindful about the joy of giving.


"Hectic holiday shopping is a good example of how stress goes viral. Getting
caught up in the frenzy around you can be avoided by turning your shopping into
a mindful activity." - Dr. Deepak Chopra, founder of the Jiyo app and the Chopra
Center for Wellbeing

Before you leave the house, sit quietly and center yourself for a few minutes.

Visualize the real purpose of your task in the delighted faces of those you are
gifting.

Feel warmth in the region of your heart as you do this visualization.

When you go to the store, return to this warm, centered feeling as you enter the
store.

Be mindful of each person for whom you are buying a gift, rather than the hectic
pace around you.

Focus on the friendly faces and happy encounters around you.

Be mindful of the joy of giving, returning to this whenever you can.

Be mindful of your limits.

If shopping begins to be stressful or tiring, leave and take a break.

Meditation for Real Life is a weekly tip about everyday mindful moments.

Related Articles


     ·    How to Be Mindful at Airport Security
     ·    How to Be Mindful Doing the Dishes
     ·    How to Be Mindful With Your Cat
     ·    How to Be Mindful With Facebook


LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 7, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Chanel's Ritzy Ode to Parisian Society

BYLINE: ALEXANDER FURY

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; fashion

LENGTH: 675 words



HIGHLIGHT: Karl Lagerfeld presented a collection yesterday in the grand old
hotel where Coco Chanel had lived for decades.


Gabrielle "Coco" Chanel spent her life at the Paris Ritz - a fact
much-publicized, mythologized and commercialized over her lifetime, and beyond.
She died there on Jan. 10, 1971. And, in a manner, she was reborn there, too -
as the great Parisian couturière, rather than the orphan girl from Saumur.
Chanel was at the very height of her fame and influence when she took up
residence at the Ritz permanently in 1937. She had already taken over the
stretch of buildings Chanel still occupies, down the Rue Cambon, which runs
along the back of the hotel itself, and at that point employed 4,000 people. Her
multiple suites at the Ritz served as a symbol of her success.

And she spent the majority of her time at the Ritz - from her return to couture
in 1934 to her death in 1971 - in a pair of two-room suites, 304 and 305. "I
could have had the most beautiful apartment in the Ritz," she had said. "I chose
to live under the eaves." Those small, low-key rooms are very different from the
lavish and spacious accommodations the hotel now dubs the "Coco Chanel Suite,"
one of 10 "prestige" suites that command several thousand dollars a night from
their guests. But its Chanel décor is down pat: When she moved in in the 1930s,
she came with her own coromandel lacquer screens, lamps and camel sofas, tacking
up images by her artist friends Jean Cocteau and Christian Bérard, and generally
making herself at home. They're still there today, alongside items in her
favorite shades of wheat-beige and gold.

Chanel's Ritz rooms resembled the apartment she maintained above her couture
salon across the street: a cosseted, bibelot-strewn, amber-colored space of
grand luxe kept for entertaining and interviews, rather than for actually
sleeping in. Every day, she crossed the Rue Cambon, walking from the Ritz's back
entrance to her own couture house. One of the possibly apocryphal stories that
proliferate about Chanel and the Ritz is that, when said journey was about to
take place, a hotel doorman would call ahead to maison Chanel for employees to
spray the street with Chanel No. 5 in readiness for Mademoiselle's arrival. But
certainly, the hotel's dominant tone - the honeyed beiges of the facade, the
interior marble and many of the Ritz's ritzy rooms - tied directly to Chanel's
aesthetic.

Karl Lagerfeld was, apparently, not so interested in that multilayered mythology
intricately entwining Chanel and the Ritz, when it came to both the staging and
designing of his latest Chanel Métiers d'Art show, held yesterday at the grand
old hotel. Lagerfeld began presenting the show in 2002 as an ode to the skills
of a selection of Parisian craft houses such as the embroidery house Lesage, the
feather specialists Lemarié and the jewelry-maker Goossens (all owned by
Chanel); these days, it also serves as the house's equivalent of a prefall
offering. What Lagerfeld focused on instead was cafe society - the other people
who have stayed at the Ritz, some famous, all moneyed. Presumably more than a
few of those Chanel herself would have rubbed shoulders with, and perhaps sold
dresses to. That socializing would have happened not in Chanel's private rooms,
but in the hotel's public salons and dining rooms - precisely where Lagerfeld
cannily chose to stage his trio of shows to guests seated for luncheon, tea and
dinner.

Lagerfeld has shown at the Ritz before, for three haute couture seasons in 1996
and 1997. But this time, the entire hotel was requisitioned by Chanel, and
filled with the brand's guests. Those included Lagerfeld's models, a who's who
of contemporary culture - among them Cara Delevingne, Lily-Rose Depp and
Pharrell Williams - who whirled through the audience. Call them cyber cafe
society. You couldn't help but draw a parallel between Lagerfeld's constant
seasonal reinvention of Chanel's pearls, chains, quilting and tweeds, and the
recent four-year renovation of the Ritz. Both looked exactly the same - only a
little bit fresher.

Related Articles


     ·    The Ritz Paris, by the Numbers



Related Slideshows


     ·    Inside Chanel's Métiers d'Art Show


LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 7, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kremlin Updates Its Plan to Counter Cyber Threats

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 611 words


MOSCOW -- The Kremlin published a new plan on Tuesday to defend Russia against
what it described as stepped-up cyberattacks and ''information-psychological''
methods by foreign intelligence agencies bent on influencing its population with
online information.

The plan updates a similar information security doctrine put in place by
President Vladimir V. Putin in 2000, early in his first term, that staked out a
renewed role for post-Soviet government in monitoring information.

The latest iteration of the doctrine comes as American officials have mulled
retaliating against Russia for what the Department of Homeland Security said was
government-orchestrated hacking before the presidential election, including
stealing emails from the Democratic National Committee.

The plan, signed by Mr. Putin on Monday but published on Tuesday, described a
threat to Russia of technological malfeasance similar to what the United States
has accused the Russians of committing. It did not mention, however, any
specific online strikes against Russia indicating that American retaliation
could be underway.

Russia, the document says, is at risk of attacks on systems of ''information
support for democratic institutions'' and the spread of harmful, false
information.

It notes the ''increasing scale of certain countries and organizations using
information technologies for military and political goals.''

The 16-page document sketches out what the Kremlin sees as the main threats to
its security and national interest from foreign information making its way into
the country, and sets priorities for countering them. It identifies terrorist
recruiting and financial crime as dangers.

Under Mr. Putin, the Kremlin has staked out a role as a defender of conservative
values, notably pushing back against gay rights, and the new doctrine is no
exception, with a clause raising concern about risks to ''traditional Russian
spiritual and moral values'' of Russian young people.

It also notes the risk to Russia of ''a tendency toward an increase of materials
containing biased assessments of the state policies of the Russian Federation in
foreign media.''

The doctrine supports a plan, in the works for some time, to gain control over
the Russian segment of the web by basing more servers inside the country. The
plan envisions operating the Russian internet autonomously, if needed in time of
war, by switching it off from the rest of the world.

And it directs Russian diplomats to pursue the Kremlin's policy goals on
information security at international organizations like the United Nations.

Russia has advocated, without much success so far, replacing the nonprofit group
that now controls top-level domains with a global agency, the International
Telecommunication Union.

The document calls attention to ''information-psychological actions'' from
abroad undermining Russian ''patriotic traditions of defending the Fatherland.''

Russia has already passed laws aimed at regulating internet content and forcing
foreign companies to base data servers in Russia. Last month, a Moscow court
ordered internet service providers to block LinkedIn, the professional social
networking site, for failing to comply.

Under a separate law governing news aggregators, sites with daily traffic
exceeding 1 million users would bear responsibility as publishers, including a
requirement to verify the truthfulness of the articles reposted on their
websites. The law would apply to Google, among other aggregators.

A spokesman for the regulator, Roskomnadzor, on Tuesday denied a report in the
Izvestiya newspaper saying Russian officials had already instructed Google to
comply.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/06/world/europe/russia-putin-cyberattacks.html

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 8, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

Park Geun-hye, Donald Trump, Microsoft: Your Friday Briefing;
Asia and Australia Edition

BYLINE: CHARLES McDERMID

SECTION: BRIEFING

LENGTH: 954 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here's what you need to know to start your day.


Good morning.

Here's what you need to know:

South Korea's Parliament voted to impeach President Park Geun-hye over a
corruption scandal. Ms. Park has been suspended from office as the
Constitutional Court considers whether to formally remove her from office.

The court has six months to decide whether the charges are true and merit her
ouster. Here are the accusations against her.

Hwang Kyo-ahn, the prime minister, is the acting president while Ms. Park is
suspended. And here are some of the contenders to replace her, including Ban
Ki-moon, the departing United Nations secretary general.

_____

In the U.S., President-elect Donald J. Trump is expected to name Andrew F.
Puzder, a fast-food executive, as secretary of labor. Mr. Puzder has opposed
expanding overtime and raising the minimum wage.

Here's the latest on the transition.

_____

"This is all uncharted territory."

That's the feeling in America's auto industry, which expects to be reshaped by
the Trump administration. A chief concern is Mr. Trump's threat of tariffs on
the millions of vehicles sold in the U.S. each year that were built in Japan,
Korea and other countries.

In Britain, Asian automakers want assurances from the government that"Brexit"
won't block their access to the European Union.

_____

President Hassan Rouhani of Iran has signed a wave of oil deals with Asian and
European energy companies in recent weeks.

"Our officials are in a rush to sign contracts with big oil companies in order
to have leverage when Trump enters the White House," said an economist with
close ties to the government.

_____

A two-week state of emergency has been declared in the Aceh province of
Indonesia, where a powerful earthquake on Wednesday killed more than 100 people
and injured hundreds of others.

"All the victims were crushed in collapsed buildings," said a spokesman for the
national disaster management agency.

_____

The dollar has surged since the U.S. election: up 8 percent against the Japanese
yen and 10 percent against the Mexican peso. Against the Chinese yuan, the move
has been less pronounced - just 1.5 percent.

But for emerging markets, accustomed to cheap dollar debt, the surge may signal
instability in the future.

Business

Michael Jordan owns the right to his name in Chinese characters, China's highest
court ruled, in a landmark decision for future trademark cases.

Microsoft acquired LinkedIn for $26.2 billion. But there are ample reasons to be
skeptical that the deal, the biggest by far in Microsoft's history, will pay
off.

Airbnb has faced regulatory battles in cities around the world. But New Orleans
was able to gain concessions from the company that few other towns have
received.

The gadget age is over, our columnist writes, and it could make life a lot less
fun.

U.S. markets were up. Here's a global snapshot.

In the News

Nguyen Ngoc Luong, a journalist who was essential to The Times coverage of the
Vietnam War and refused an offer to be relocated, died in Ho Chi Minh City. He
was 79. [The New York Times]

Foreign diplomats in India have lodged protests over the country's limit on bank
withdrawals. [CNN Money]

 A recent cyber attack has Germany concerned about becoming a target of Russia's
campaign to destabilize Western democracies. [The New York Times]

Satellite imagery shows that Vietnam is dredging on a disputed reef in the South
China Sea, which could anger Beijing. [Reuters]

Here's a look at how the Pearl Harbor attack, 75 years ago this week, shaped the
modern world. [The New York Times]

The Democratic Party may want to look to California in its search for future
leaders. [The New York Times]

A city in Japan is keeping track of elderly dementia patients by sticking bar
codes with personal data to their fingers and toes. [BBC]

Noteworthy

Traveling to Sydney, Australia? We've got recommendations on how to spend 36
hours in the city.

John Glenn, the first American to orbit Earth, died on Thursday. He was 95.

In a Myanmar market, a paleontologist discovered a 99-million-year-old chunk of
amber with the feathered tail of a dinosaur trapped inside.

The recovery of a woman with advanced colon cancer, after treatment with cells
from her own immune system, may help doctors develop new treatments for other
patients.

And remember the trend of new bank notes featuring women that we told you about
yesterday? Canada's finance minister announced that Viola Desmond, a civil
rights pioneer, will be the first Canadian woman on a note.

Back Story

On this day in 1917, the First World War was entrenched in some of its darkest
days. The Allies were in a stalemate on the Western Front, and good news was in
short supply.

So it was a huge morale booster for the Allies when Turkish forces surrendered
the holy city of Jerusalem to Britain's Gen. Edmund Allenby.

Prime Minister David Lloyd George called it "a Christmas present for the British
people." The New York Herald's front page proclaimed: "Jerusalem is rescued by
British after 673 years of Moslem Rule."

Jews in the city, inspired a month earlier by Britain's Balfour Declaration in
support of a Jewish homeland, rejoiced. Some Arabs, many of whom had been
conscripted by the Ottomans, danced in the streets.

Two more details:

When General Allenby entered the Old City, he did so on foot and unfurled no
flags, in a sign of respect. He also deployed Muslim troops to ease sectarian
tension.

Until he arrived, the mayor of Jerusalem had been scrambling to find a British
official to whom he could cede control. An army cook who got lost while looking
for food was initially asked.

He declined, saying "I don't want the city; I want eggs."

_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 9, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

Foes of Russia Say Child Pornography Is Planted to Ruin Them

BYLINE: ANDREW HIGGINS

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 2503 words



HIGHLIGHT: A K.G.B. dirty trick known as "kompromat," the fabrication of
compromising or illegal material, may have returned in a particularly noxious
form.


CAMBRIDGE, England -- His indomitable will steeled by a dozen years in the
Soviet gulag, decades of sparring with the K.G.B. and a bout of near fatal heart
disease, Vladimir K. Bukovsky, a tireless opponent of Soviet leaders and
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, is not a man easily put off his stride.

But he got knocked sideways when British police officers banged on the front
door of his home on a sedate suburban street here early one morning while he lay
sick in bed and informed him that they had "received information about forbidden
images" in his possession.

"It was all very bizarre and disturbing," Mr. Bukovsky said. "This is not
normally the language of a free society," he added, recalling how his old K.G.B.
tormentors used to hound him and his friends over texts and photographs declared
forbidden by the Soviet authorities.

The images sought by the British police, however, had nothing to do with
politics but involved child pornography, a shocking offense in any jurisdiction.
The officers hauled away a clunky desktop computer from Mr. Bukovsky's study --
a chaos of books and papers dusted with cigarette ash -- and a broken computer
from his garage.

In April last year, the veteran Soviet dissident, a onetime confidant of
Margaret Thatcher, finally found out what was going on: The Crown Prosecution
Service announced that he faced five charges of making indecent images of
children, five charges of possession of indecent images of children and one
charge of possession of a prohibited image.

The case was supposed to go to court in May in Cambridge but, after Mr.
Bukovsky, 73, entered a not-guilty plea it was delayed until Dec. 12. This
followed a prosecution request for more time to review an independent forensic
report on what had been found on Mr. Bukovsky's computers and how an
unidentified third party had probably put it there.

"The whole affair is Kafkaesque," Mr. Bukovsky said in an interview. "You not
only have to prove you are not guilty but that you are innocent." He insisted
that he was the victim of a new and particularly noxious form of an old K.G.B.
dirty trick known as kompromat, the fabrication and planting of compromising or
illegal material.

Old-style kompromat featured doctored photographs, planted drugs, grainy videos
of liaisons with prostitutes hired by the K.G.B., and a wide range of other
primitive entrapment techniques.

Today, however, kompromat has become allied with the more sophisticated tricks
of cybermischief-making, where Russia has proved its prowess in the Baltic
States, Georgia and Ukraine. American intelligence agencies also believe that
Russia used hacked data to hurt Hillary Clinton and promote Donald J. Trump in
the U.S. presidential election, according to senior officials in the Obama
administration.

Russia's cyberwarriors serve a multitude of goals, including espionage, the
disruption of vital infrastructure -- as happened in Ukraine last year when
nearly a quarter of a million people lost electricityafter a cyberattack on
three regional energy companies -- the discrediting of foes and the shaping of
public opinion through the spread of false information.

Seeding Disinformation

Hacking is not only a good way to get real information, like the emails of the
D.N.C., but a relatively easy and usually untraceable way to plant fake
information. For example, when unidentified hackers last year broke into the
computers of a government research center in Lithuania, they stole nothing, but
planted bogus reports on its website that the country's stoutly pro-American
president had worked as an escort and K.G.B. informer while a student in
Leningrad during the Soviet era.

A similar break-in affecting the Lithuanian military's website replaced a bland
announcement about a coming NATO exercise with a fake statement that presented
the exercise as part of a plan to annex Kaliningrad, a Russian exclave on the
Baltic Sea, and join it with Lithuania, a member of NATO.

The supposed NATO plan outlined in the phony text closely mimicked methods used
by Moscow in 2014 to annex Crimea and stir up unrest in eastern Ukraine,
including the seizure of military posts and police stations and calls for the
establishment of the Kaliningrad People's Republic.

Written in faulty Lithuanian, the statement was "immediately obvious as a fake,"
said Rimtautas Cerniauskas, the director of Lithuania's National Cyber Security
Center, which was set up last year in response to increased alarm over Russian
aggression.

But, he added, the stunt nonetheless succeeded in distracting cyberdefense staff
members from their normal work for days and in spreading a lie that, though
immediately exposed, polluted discussion about NATO.

"I don't believe in aliens, but if you see enough articles about aliens visiting
Earth, you start to think 'Who knows, maybe the government is hiding
something,'" Mr. Cerniauskas said.

Seemingly, no target is too small to warrant attention, no attack too petty.
Trained to believe that the ends always justify the means, Russian security
service operatives "have sick minds," Mr. Bukovsky said. "They live in a virtual
reality."

Settling Scores

This blurring of all boundaries between truth and falsehood in the service of
operational needs has created a climate in Russia in which even the most serious
and grotesque accusations, like those involving pedophilia, are simply a
currency for settling scores. Mr. Bukovsky is far from the only one fending off
such allegations.

Yoann Barbereau, the French director of the Alliance Française in the Siberian
city of Irkutsk, has been struggling since early last year to defend himself
against charges that he posted child pornography on a website for Russian
mothers. His lawyers, pointing to evidence that his computer was tampered with
after his arrest, believe that the material was planted by local security
service officers to punish Mr. Barbereau for an extramarital romance with a
woman connected to a powerful local official. In September, after months under
house arrest, Mr. Barbereau fled.

Konstantin Rubakhin, an environmental activist who lives in exile in Lithuania,
also got a visit from police officers looking for child pornography. Mr.
Rubakhin speculated that that raid, in June last year, may have been part of an
effort to derail his application for political asylum or his work for the
EU-Russia Civil Society Forum, a research group that investigates corruption. In
the end, the Lithuanian police dropped the case.

Getting someone labeled a suspected pedophile has the added benefit of fitting
"perfectly with the Kremlin's line that human rights activists are all just
degenerates," said Vytis Jurkonis, a Lithuanian human rights activist who works
with Russian exiles.

Russia has denied any involvement in all of these incidents. "Of course they
do," scoffed Linas Linkevicius, Lithuania's foreign minister. "They never have
anything to do with anything that is going on in the world," he said, describing
Russian hackers, whether working directly for the state or as freelance vandals,
"as part of their weapons system."

"They have very efficient hybrid warfare means," he added.

In the case of Mr. Bukovsky and the others involving pornography stored -- or
planted -- on the computers of Kremlin critics, the high degree of deniability
offered by the shadows of cyberspace has left the accused struggling to salvage
their reputations.

"To use a technical term, you are completely screwed," said Jeffrey Carr, the
head of Taia Global, an American cybersecurity company, and the author of a book
on cyberwarfare. "If something like this is sponsored by the Russian government,
or any government or anyone with sufficient skill, you are not going to be
successful. It is terrible."

A Global Footprint

Russia first flexed its cybermuscle publicly in 2007 with a blitzkrieg attack
across a broad front in Estonia, a Baltic nation often at odds with Moscow. The
computer systems there of the police, military, banks, media and government
offices faced a lengthy barrage of superfluous requests designed to crash their
networks, a tactic known as a distributed denial-of-service attack.

Taimar Peterkop, the director general of Estonia's Information System Authority,
which watches over the core pillars of the country's highly digitalized economy
and government, said that after that early assault the cybermischief linked to
Russia has only expanded in both range and sophistication.

"Nowadays it seems they want to show they are everywhere," Mr. Peterkop said.
"Like flying bombers close to our and other countries' borders, they perhaps
simply want to show they have an important global footprint. It is almost as if
they want to be seen, or maybe we are just responding better."

Last year's assault on Ukraine's energy system involved far more elaborate tools
than those used in the 2007 distributed denial-of-service attacks on Estonia and
were the first known successful effort by Russia or its proxies to knock out
vital civilian infrastructure with hackers worming their way into control rooms.

Robert Lee, the director of Dragos Security, a cybersecurity company in
Maryland, who helped investigate the electricity shutdown in Ukraine, said that
identifying the culprits would "never be certain" but that "when we look at
tradecraft, capabilities and motive of the group involved, we can come to a
high-confidence assessment that the group was Russian-based and a
medium-confidence assessment that there were members in the government that knew
this was going to happen."

This gray zone of uncertainty has been seized on by Russia as proof that it is
the victim of "Russophobic" hysteria over its role in cyberspace. It has also
left Mr. Bukovsky -- and others caught in what they believe are
Moscow-orchestrated kompromat traps -- at the mercy of Western police and courts
that demand hard evidence, not guesswork and accusation from defendants.

Inside Russia, kompromat has featured for years in political and business
disputes. Under President Boris N. Yeltsin in the 1990s, it was a dirty game
played by both the Kremlin and its foes but, under Mr. Putin, compromising
videos and other embarrassing material invariably target only the Kremlin's
opponents.

Character Assassination

Before becoming president at the end of 1999, Mr. Putin played a prominent role
in a particularly spectacular example of this Russian specialty. As head of the
Federal Security Agency, or F.S.B., in 1997, Mr. Putin won the trust of Mr.
Yeltsin by helping to destroy the career of Russia's prosecutor general, Yury
Skuratov, who, after starting an investigation into Kremlin corruption, was
disgraced on national television by the broadcast of a video that showed a man
who looked like him in bed with two young women.

Mr. Putin certified in public that the man in the video, widely believed to have
been arranged and then filmed by the F.S.B., was indeed the prosecutor general.
Mr. Skuratov resigned. The corruption investigation ended. A grateful Mr.
Yeltsin named Mr. Putin prime minister and then president.

For the Kremlin's supporters, the verdict on Mr. Bukovsky is already in. On
learning of the charges against him, Margarita Simonyan, the editor in chief of
the state-funded television outlet RT, posted a sneering message on Twitter:
"The Pedophile Plan: rape a child, sign up in the opposition, emigrate, expose
the flaws of the motherland and all will be well. Or not."

The idea that Europeans and Russian opponents of the Kremlin are sexual deviants
with a taste for pedophilia is a strange but recurring theme in Russian
propaganda. The Russian ex-wife of a Norwegian man gained wide attention in
state media, for example, with fabricated claims, made after she lost a child
custody battle in Norway, that her former husband dressed up their 4-year-old
son in a "Putin costume" and raped him.

Foes of the Kremlin have sometimes picked up the same ugly club and used it to
beat Mr. Putin, as did Alexander V. Litvinenko, a former K.G.B. agent who died
in London in 2006 from poisoning by a highly toxic radioactive isotope. Four
months before his death, which a British inquiry ruled was probably
state-sponsored murder approved by Mr. Putin, Mr. Litvinenko published an
article that, without any evidence, asserted that the Russian president was
himself a pedophile.

Mr. Bukovsky, who was a close friend of Mr. Litvinenko, said he had strongly
urged him not to publish. "I was very angry with him," Mr. Bukovsky recalled,
noting that in many ways Mr. Litvinenko, despite his ferocious hostility toward
the Kremlin, still had the mind-set of a security officer and "could not
understand the difference between truth and operational information."

On the "dark web," an area of the internet that requires special software and
authorization codes to enter, suspected Russian hackers openly offer to plant
evidence of pedophilia as a way to destroy an enemy.

"I'll do anything for money," promised an advertisement placed by a hacker who
offered to ruin "your opponents, business or private persons you don't like. I
can ruin them financially and or get them arrested, whatever you like." Boasting
that it was possible to destroy both individuals and businesses, the hacker
added, "If you want someone to get known as a child porn user, no problem." He
gave a price, denominated in Bitcoins, of around $600 per job.

Paulo Shakarian, the chief executive officer of IntelliSpyre and the director of
the Cyber-Socio Intelligent Systems Laboratory at Arizona State University, said
his team had analyzed the advertisement and concluded that it was probably
posted by a Russian (or at least a Russian-speaking) hacker. He said the price
was in the normal range of what hackers demand for character assassination.

No matter what the court in Britain decides, Mr. Bukovsky has already had his
reputation -- and, by association, that of other Kremlin's critics -- trashed in
Russia. Russian state television, in a report on the case, described the
dissident as "a lover of child porn."

Mr. Bukovsky complained that European countries that expect clarity and follow
rigid procedures easily fall prey to the dirty tricks of a regime that excels in
hiding its tracks and creating confusion. "They are very good at using the West
against the West," he said.

PHOTOS: Vladimir K. Bukovsky, 73, a veteran Soviet dissident, said he was the
victim of the fabrication and planting of illegal material. (A1); Vladimir K.
Bukovsky at home in Cambridge, England. He was visited by officers who had
"received information about forbidden images" in his possession, he said.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Alexander V. Litvinenko, a
former K.G.B. officer who grew critical of the Russian government, in 2006 after
he was poisoned with a toxic isotope. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATASJA WEITSZ/GETTY
IMAGES); Yury Skuratov, a former prosecutor general of Russia, in 2000. Vladimir
V. Putin won Boris N. Yeltsin's trust by helping to destroy his career.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANTOINE GYORI/SYGMA, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (A14)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 9, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

In Defense of the Analog;
Nonfiction

BYLINE: SCOTT TIMBERG

SECTION: BOOKS; review

LENGTH: 701 words



HIGHLIGHT: David Sax's "The Revenge of Analog" is about how digital and analog
can get along.


THE REVENGE OF ANALOG
Real Things and Why They Matter
By David Sax
282 pp. PublicAffairs. $25.99.

No matter which side you're on in the debate over digital technology, there's
something to cheer you in "The Revenge of Analog." If you lament that the online
revolution has wiped out the local, the tangible, the brick-and-mortar, David
Sax's chronicle of resurgent vinyl record factories and board-game cafes will
reassure you with some of the niche businesses that have survived the digital
onslaught. (In some cases, Sax argues, analog business models work better than
digital ones, despite Silicon Valley hype.) But if you think that Twitter and
smartphones have brought us the best of all possible worlds, you'll enjoy
reading that many of these new, in-real-life innovations are actually enlivened
by the web, like the blogs dedicated to Moleskine notebooks, which are thriving
in an era of print nostalgia.

So there is not a whole lot of edge in the "revenge" part of the title: Much of
the book is about how digital and analog can get along, like old pals who've
made it through a brief rough spot and are high-fiving again.

Sax, a Canadian business journalist best known for the James Beard Award-winning
book "Save the Deli," clearly likes old things and does not believe in putting
the word authenticity in quotation marks. In "The Revenge of Analog," he's not
particularly angry or broken up about the disruptions of the last decade or so.
He works through his topics chapter by chapter -- "The Revenge of Paper," "The
Revenge of Film," "The Revenge of Retail" -- with scene-setting and friendly
interviews with various innovators. One of his more substantial chapters looks
at the cyber-utopian impulse that's led public school districts to purchase
laptops and related technology; these kids, he argues, mostly just need good
teaching. And his ardor for analog models does not turn entirely on nostalgia:
He argues that the older system created more jobs, and filled human needs -- for
a sensory, tactile experience, for example -- that the new ones don't.

Part of what becomes clear in Sax's telling of the tale is that much of this
posthumous wave of analog operates at the very high end. His chapter on the
return of print, for instance, looks at Monocle, Kinfolk, Wallpaper and The
Gentlewoman, not the huge number of newspapers and mainstream magazines that
have bitten the dust since the one-two punch of the Great Recession and the
online media onslaught.

Other times he veers close to commodity fetishism. "You can be a buttoned-up
investment banker or a nerdy engineer, but open up your Moleskine and you are
playing on the same creative field as the cool architect designing an urban park
at the cafe."

But Sax is not naïve. Most of his chapter on "The Revenge of Work," for example,
looks at the company Shinola, which makes retro-cool watches whose prices can
exceed $1,000 (alongside a $15,000 framed American flag) in a formerly rough
part of Detroit's Midtown neighborhood. He's respectful of the company's
ambitions and accomplishments, but also points out the distasteful irony of a
high-end hipster brand trading on its location in a struggling city. Soon after
Detroit went bankrupt, and residents were literally freezing to death at home,
Shinola sent out a tweet saying: "Bankruptcy, shmankruptcy. We have a lot of job
openings here in #Detroit. Come join our team!"

The battle between digital and analog may not be quite as benign as Sax paints
it. There are plenty of talented people who work in music, journalism and
photography whose careers have been all but washed away by the internet's
disruption. Sax sets many of his scenes in Toronto (his board-game-besotted
hometown), in Britain and in Italy, where he makes a convincing case that a
vigorous and amorous fight for analog is afoot. But anyone who loved Other Music
in New York or Rocket Video in Los Angeles, or any of the many bookstores
destroyed by online bookselling, will know that there's another side to the
story.

Scott Timberg, a Los Angeles-based staff writer for Salon, is the author of
"Culture Crash: The Killing of the Creative Class."

Related Articles


     ·    'The Revenge of Analog': See It. Feel It. Touch It. (Don't Click)


LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 10, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

Quotation of the Day

SECTION: TODAYSPAPER

LENGTH: 48 words



HIGHLIGHT: Quotation of the day for December 11, 2016.


"I don't believe in aliens, but if you see enough articles about aliens visiting
Earth, you start to think 'Who knows, maybe the government is hiding
something.'"

RIMTAUTAS CERNIAUSKAS, the director of Lithuania's National Cyber Security
Center, regarding disinformation planted by hackers.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 10, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

Xinjiang, Tense Chinese Region, Adopts Strict Internet Controls

BYLINE: EDWARD WONG

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 625 words



HIGHLIGHT: The regulations punish people for spreading "false information" in
the far western region, which has grappled with ethnic violence.


URUMQI, China - The regional government of China's far western region of
Xinjiang, which has grappled with ethnic violence, has put into effect strict
regulations that punish people for spreading "false information" online.

The regulations appear to be aimed at criminalizing people living in Xinjiang
who make online postings about ethnic conflict or tensions, as well as related
violence and terrorism.

In recent years, Xinjiang and central government officials have said they are
concerned about the spread of online material that might incite attacks by
citizens. In areas of Xinjiang where there is a significant population of ethnic
Uighurs, there have been notable incidents of violence, including here in
Urumqi, the regional capital.

In 2009, ethnic rioting in Urumqi resulted in about 200 deaths - officials said
most of the victims were ethnic Han, the dominant group in China - and a harsh
security crackdown on Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking people who mostly practice
Sunni Islam. Since then, violence has flared in southern oasis towns in
Xinjiang, with Chinese officials attributing much of the bloodshed to "religious
extremists" or "separatists."

Xinjiang Daily, an official newspaper, said Wednesday that the purpose of the
new rules was to "prevent and punish the crime of spreading false information
that disturbs social order, and to protect the legal interests of citizens,
legal representatives and other organizations."

The central government has also been issuing regulations that try to control the
spread of "false information." In July, the Cyberspace Administration of China
said it would punish website operators who post "directly as news reports
unverified content found on online platforms such as social media." Officials
had already been punishing people in recent years for making a variety of posts
said to be based on rumors.

Critics of the Communist Party's systems of control say such bans are an attempt
to stop the spread of ideas that officials think may weaken the party's rule or
legitimacy. (In the United States, a different political conversation about the
spread of "fake news" online has been unfolding since last month's presidential
election.)

Officials in Xinjiang have been quick to clamp down on online communications in
response to ethnic tensions. After the Urumqi rioting in 2009, officials shut
down access to most outside websites for about a year, allowing Xinjiang's
residents to see only government-approved sites, essentially creating an
intranet in a territory with about one-sixth of China's land mass.

The new rules appear to be tailored to issues in the region. A list of 11
criteria fleshes out the definition of "false information" that would result in
punishment; "advocating religious fanaticism or undermining religious harmony,"
"advocating terrorism or radicalism" and "advocating ethnic hatred or ethnic
discrimination" are among them.

The new rules also say that the Xinjiang government must strengthen its work on
"cyber-information security" and "reinforce monitoring and management of
internet service providers and internet users." It also said internet service
providers must be properly registered, must have the proper identification from
all users and must perfect their "systems of content censorship."

Websites and companies that fail to censor and delete the "false and harmful"
information would be warned, fined and in some cases shut down, the regulations
say. If "circumstances are serious," the companies could be fined up to about
$72,000, and individuals such as executives or employees could be separately
fined up to about $14,500.

The rules were adopted by the People's Congress of Xinjiang on Dec. 1 and
enacted Wednesday.

Yufan Huang contributed research from Beijing.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 11, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Russia's Foes Say Child Porn Is Planted to Destroy

BYLINE: By ANDREW HIGGINS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2405 words


CAMBRIDGE, England -- His indomitable will steeled by a dozen years in the
Soviet gulag, decades of sparring with the K.G.B. and a bout of near fatal heart
disease, Vladimir K. Bukovsky, a tireless opponent of Soviet leaders and
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, is not a man easily put off his stride.

But he got knocked sideways when British police officers banged on the front
door of his home on a sedate suburban street here early one morning while he lay
sick in bed and informed him that they had ''received information about
forbidden images'' in his possession.

''It was all very bizarre and disturbing,'' Mr. Bukovsky said. ''This is not
normally the language of a free society,'' he added, recalling how his old
K.G.B. tormentors used to hound him and his friends over texts and photographs
declared forbidden by the Soviet authorities.

The images sought by the British police, however, had nothing to do with
politics but involved child pornography, a shocking offense in any jurisdiction.
The officers hauled away a clunky desktop computer from Mr. Bukovsky's study --
a chaos of books and papers dusted with cigarette ash -- and a broken computer
from his garage.

In April last year, the veteran Soviet dissident, a onetime confidant of
Margaret Thatcher, finally found out what was going on: The Crown Prosecution
Service announced that he faced five charges of making indecent images of
children, five charges of possession of indecent images of children and one
charge of possession of a prohibited image.

The case was supposed to go to court in May in Cambridge but, after Mr.
Bukovsky, 73, entered a not-guilty plea it was delayed until Dec. 12. This
followed a prosecution request for more time to review an independent forensic
report on what had been found on Mr. Bukovsky's computers and how an
unidentified third party had probably put it there.

''The whole affair is Kafkaesque,'' Mr. Bukovsky said in an interview. ''You not
only have to prove you are not guilty but that you are innocent.'' He insisted
that he was the victim of a new and particularly noxious form of an old K.G.B.
dirty trick known as kompromat, the fabrication and planting of compromising or
illegal material.

Old-style kompromat featured doctored photographs, planted drugs, grainy videos
of liaisons with prostitutes hired by the K.G.B., and a wide range of other
primitive entrapment techniques.

Today, however, kompromat has become allied with the more sophisticated tricks
of cybermischief-making, where Russia has proved its prowess in the Baltic
States, Georgia and Ukraine. American intelligence agencies also believe that
Russia used hacked data to hurt Hillary Clinton and promote Donald J. Trump in
the U.S. presidential election, according to senior officials in the Obama
administration.

Russia's cyberwarriors serve a multitude of goals, including espionage, the
disruption of vital infrastructure -- as happened in Ukraine last year when
nearly a quarter of a million people lost electricity after a cyberattack on
three regional energy companies -- the discrediting of foes and the shaping of
public opinion through the spread of false information.

Seeding Disinformation

Hacking is not only a good way to get real information, like the emails of the
D.N.C., but a relatively easy and usually untraceable way to plant fake
information. For example, when unidentified hackers last year broke into the
computers of a government research center in Lithuania, they stole nothing, but
planted bogus reports on its website that the country's stoutly pro-American
president had worked as an escort and K.G.B. informer while a student in
Leningrad during the Soviet era.

A similar break-in affecting the Lithuanian military's website replaced a bland
announcement about a coming NATO exercise with a fake statement that presented
the exercise as part of a plan to annex Kaliningrad, a Russian exclave on the
Baltic Sea, and join it with Lithuania, a member of NATO.

The supposed NATO plan outlined in the phony text closely mimicked methods used
by Moscow in 2014 to annex Crimea and stir up unrest in eastern Ukraine,
including the seizure of military posts and police stations and calls for the
establishment of the Kaliningrad People's Republic.

Written in faulty Lithuanian, the statement was ''immediately obvious as a
fake,'' said Rimtautas Cerniauskas, the director of Lithuania's National Cyber
Security Center, which was set up last year in response to increased alarm over
Russian aggression.

But, he added, the stunt nonetheless succeeded in distracting cyberdefense staff
members from their normal work for days and in spreading a lie that, though
immediately exposed, polluted discussion about NATO.

''I don't believe in aliens, but if you see enough articles about aliens
visiting Earth, you start to think 'Who knows, maybe the government is hiding
something,''' Mr. Cerniauskas said.

Seemingly, no target is too small to warrant attention, no attack too petty.
Trained to believe that the ends always justify the means, Russian security
service operatives ''have sick minds,'' Mr. Bukovsky said. ''They live in a
virtual reality.''

Settling Scores

This blurring of all boundaries between truth and falsehood in the service of
operational needs has created a climate in Russia in which even the most serious
and grotesque accusations, like those involving pedophilia, are simply a
currency for settling scores. Mr. Bukovsky is far from the only one fending off
such allegations.

Yoann Barbereau, the French director of the Alliance Française in the Siberian
city of Irkutsk, has been struggling since early last year to defend himself
against charges that he posted child pornography on a website for Russian
mothers. His lawyers, pointing to evidence that his computer was tampered with
after his arrest, believe that the material was planted by local security
service officers to punish Mr. Barbereau for an extramarital romance with a
woman connected to a powerful local official. In September, after months under
house arrest, Mr. Barbereau fled.

Konstantin Rubakhin, an environmental activist who lives in exile in Lithuania,
also got a visit from police officers looking for child pornography. Mr.
Rubakhin speculated that that raid, in June last year, may have been part of an
effort to derail his application for political asylum or his work for the
EU-Russia Civil Society Forum, a research group that investigates corruption. In
the end, the Lithuanian police dropped the case.

Getting someone labeled a suspected pedophile has the added benefit of fitting
''perfectly with the Kremlin's line that human rights activists are all just
degenerates,'' said Vytis Jurkonis, a Lithuanian human rights activist who works
with Russian exiles.

Russia has denied any involvement in all of these incidents. ''Of course they
do,'' scoffed Linas Linkevicius, Lithuania's foreign minister. ''They never have
anything to do with anything that is going on in the world,'' he said,
describing Russian hackers, whether working directly for the state or as
freelance vandals, ''as part of their weapons system.''

''They have very efficient hybrid warfare means,'' he added.

In the case of Mr. Bukovsky and the others involving pornography stored -- or
planted -- on the computers of Kremlin critics, the high degree of deniability
offered by the shadows of cyberspace has left the accused struggling to salvage
their reputations.

''To use a technical term, you are completely screwed,'' said Jeffrey Carr, the
head of Taia Global, an American cybersecurity company, and the author of a book
on cyberwarfare. ''If something like this is sponsored by the Russian
government, or any government or anyone with sufficient skill, you are not going
to be successful. It is terrible.''

A Global Footprint

Russia first flexed its cybermuscle publicly in 2007 with a blitzkrieg attack
across a broad front in Estonia, a Baltic nation often at odds with Moscow. The
computer systems there of the police, military, banks, media and government
offices faced a lengthy barrage of superfluous requests designed to crash their
networks, a tactic known as a distributed denial-of-service attack.

Taimar Peterkop, the director general of Estonia's Information System Authority,
which watches over the core pillars of the country's highly digitalized economy
and government, said that after that early assault the cybermischief linked to
Russia has only expanded in both range and sophistication.

''Nowadays it seems they want to show they are everywhere,'' Mr. Peterkop said.
''Like flying bombers close to our and other countries' borders, they perhaps
simply want to show they have an important global footprint. It is almost as if
they want to be seen, or maybe we are just responding better.''

Last year's assault on Ukraine's energy system involved far more elaborate tools
than those used in the 2007 distributed denial-of-service attacks on Estonia and
were the first known successful effort by Russia or its proxies to knock out
vital civilian infrastructure with hackers worming their way into control rooms.

Robert Lee, the director of Dragos Security, a cybersecurity company in
Maryland, who helped investigate the electricity shutdown in Ukraine, said that
identifying the culprits would ''never be certain'' but that ''when we look at
tradecraft, capabilities and motive of the group involved, we can come to a
high-confidence assessment that the group was Russian-based and a
medium-confidence assessment that there were members in the government that knew
this was going to happen.''

This gray zone of uncertainty has been seized on by Russia as proof that it is
the victim of ''Russophobic'' hysteria over its role in cyberspace. It has also
left Mr. Bukovsky -- and others caught in what they believe are
Moscow-orchestrated kompromat traps -- at the mercy of Western police and courts
that demand hard evidence, not guesswork and accusation from defendants.

Inside Russia, kompromat has featured for years in political and business
disputes. Under President Boris N. Yeltsin in the 1990s, it was a dirty game
played by both the Kremlin and its foes but, under Mr. Putin, compromising
videos and other embarrassing material invariably target only the Kremlin's
opponents.

Character Assassination

Before becoming president at the end of 1999, Mr. Putin played a prominent role
in a particularly spectacular example of this Russian specialty. As head of the
Federal Security Agency, or F.S.B., in 1997, Mr. Putin won the trust of Mr.
Yeltsin by helping to destroy the career of Russia's prosecutor general, Yury
Skuratov, who, after starting an investigation into Kremlin corruption, was
disgraced on national television by the broadcast of a video that showed a man
who looked like him in bed with two young women.

Mr. Putin certified in public that the man in the video, widely believed to have
been arranged and then filmed by the F.S.B., was indeed the prosecutor general.
Mr. Skuratov resigned. The corruption investigation ended. A grateful Mr.
Yeltsin named Mr. Putin prime minister and then president.

For the Kremlin's supporters, the verdict on Mr. Bukovsky is already in. On
learning of the charges against him, Margarita Simonyan, the editor in chief of
the state-funded television outlet RT, posted a sneering message on Twitter:
''The Pedophile Plan: rape a child, sign up in the opposition, emigrate, expose
the flaws of the motherland and all will be well. Or not.''

The idea that Europeans and Russian opponents of the Kremlin are sexual deviants
with a taste for pedophilia is a strange but recurring theme in Russian
propaganda. The Russian ex-wife of a Norwegian man gained wide attention in
state media, for example, with fabricated claims, made after she lost a child
custody battle in Norway, that her former husband dressed up their 4-year-old
son in a ''Putin costume'' and raped him.

Foes of the Kremlin have sometimes picked up the same ugly club and used it to
beat Mr. Putin, as did Alexander V. Litvinenko, a former K.G.B. agent who died
in London in 2006 from poisoning by a highly toxic radioactive isotope. Four
months before his death, which a British inquiry ruled was probably
state-sponsored murder approved by Mr. Putin, Mr. Litvinenko published an
article that, without any evidence, asserted that the Russian president was
himself a pedophile.

Mr. Bukovsky, who was a close friend of Mr. Litvinenko, said he had strongly
urged him not to publish. ''I was very angry with him,'' Mr. Bukovsky recalled,
noting that in many ways Mr. Litvinenko, despite his ferocious hostility toward
the Kremlin, still had the mind-set of a security officer and ''could not
understand the difference between truth and operational information.''

On the ''dark web,'' an area of the internet that requires special software and
authorization codes to enter, suspected Russian hackers openly offer to plant
evidence of pedophilia as a way to destroy an enemy.

''I'll do anything for money,'' promised an advertisement placed by a hacker who
offered to ruin ''your opponents, business or private persons you don't like. I
can ruin them financially and or get them arrested, whatever you like.''
Boasting that it was possible to destroy both individuals and businesses, the
hacker added, ''If you want someone to get known as a child porn user, no
problem.'' He gave a price, denominated in Bitcoins, of around $600 per job.

Paulo Shakarian, the chief executive officer of IntelliSpyre and the director of
the Cyber-Socio Intelligent Systems Laboratory at Arizona State University, said
his team had analyzed the advertisement and concluded that it was probably
posted by a Russian (or at least a Russian-speaking) hacker. He said the price
was in the normal range of what hackers demand for character assassination.

No matter what the court in Britain decides, Mr. Bukovsky has already had his
reputation -- and, by association, that of other Kremlin's critics -- trashed in
Russia. Russian state television, in a report on the case, described the
dissident as ''a lover of child porn.''

Mr. Bukovsky complained that European countries that expect clarity and follow
rigid procedures easily fall prey to the dirty tricks of a regime that excels in
hiding its tracks and creating confusion. ''They are very good at using the West
against the West,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/09/world/europe/vladimir-putin-russia-fake-news-h
acking-cybersecurity.html

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Vladimir K. Bukovsky, 73, a veteran Soviet dissident, said he
was the victim of the fabrication and planting of illegal material. (A1)
Vladimir K. Bukovsky at home in Cambridge, England. He was visited by officers
who had ''received information about forbidden images'' in his possession, he
said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Alexander V. Litvinenko, a former K.G.B. officer who grew critical of the
Russian government, in 2006 after he was poisoned with a toxic isotope.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY NATASJA WEITSZ/GETTY IMAGES)
 Yury Skuratov, a former prosecutor general of Russia, in 2000. Vladimir V.
Putin won Boris N. Yeltsin's trust by helping to destroy his career. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY ANTOINE GYORI/SYGMA, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (A14)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 11, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quotation of the Day

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 48 words


''I don't believe in aliens, but if you see enough articles about aliens
visiting Earth, you start to think 'Who knows, maybe the government is hiding
something.'''

RIMTAUTAS CERNIAUSKAS, the director of Lithuania's National Cyber Security
Center, regarding disinformation planted by hackers.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/10/todayspaper/quotation-of-the-day.html

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 11, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Good Old Ways

BYLINE: By SCOTT TIMBERG.

Scott Timberg, a Los Angeles-based staff writer for Salon, is the author of
''Culture Crash: The Killing of the Creative Class.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; NONFICTION; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 673 words


THE REVENGE OF ANALOGReal Things and Why They MatterBy David Sax282 pp.
PublicAffairs. $25.99.

No matter which side you're on in the debate over digital technology, there's
something to cheer you in ''The Revenge of Analog.'' If you lament that the
online revolution has wiped out the local, the tangible, the brick-and-mortar,
David Sax's chronicle of resurgent vinyl record factories and board-game cafes
will reassure you with some of the niche businesses that have survived the
digital onslaught. (In some cases, Sax argues, analog business models work
better than digital ones, despite Silicon Valley hype.) But if you think that
Twitter and smartphones have brought us the best of all possible worlds, you'll
enjoy reading that many of these new, in-real-life innovations are actually
enlivened by the web, like the blogs dedicated to Moleskine notebooks, which are
thriving in an era of print nostalgia.

So there is not a whole lot of edge in the ''revenge'' part of the title: Much
of the book is about how digital and analog can get along, like old pals who've
made it through a brief rough spot and are high-fiving again.

Sax, a Canadian business journalist best known for the James Beard Award-winning
book ''Save the Deli,'' clearly likes old things and does not believe in putting
the word authenticity in quotation marks. In ''The Revenge of Analog,'' he's not
particularly angry or broken up about the disruptions of the last decade or so.
He works through his topics chapter by chapter -- ''The Revenge of Paper,''
''The Revenge of Film,'' ''The Revenge of Retail'' -- with scene-setting and
friendly interviews with various innovators. One of his more substantial
chapters looks at the cyber-utopian impulse that's led public school districts
to purchase laptops and related technology; these kids, he argues, mostly just
need good teaching. And his ardor for analog models does not turn entirely on
nostalgia: He argues that the older system created more jobs, and filled human
needs -- for a sensory, tactile experience, for example -- that the new ones
don't.

Part of what becomes clear in Sax's telling of the tale is that much of this
posthumous wave of analog operates at the very high end. His chapter on the
return of print, for instance, looks at Monocle, Kinfolk, Wallpaper and The
Gentlewoman, not the huge number of newspapers and mainstream magazines that
have bitten the dust since the one-two punch of the Great Recession and the
online media onslaught.

Other times he veers close to commodity fetishism. ''You can be a buttoned-up
investment banker or a nerdy engineer, but open up your Moleskine and you are
playing on the same creative field as the cool architect designing an urban park
at the cafe.''

But Sax is not naïve. Most of his chapter on ''The Revenge of Work,'' for
example, looks at the company Shinola, which makes retro-cool watches whose
prices can exceed $1,000 (alongside a $15,000 framed American flag) in a
formerly rough part of Detroit's Midtown neighborhood. He's respectful of the
company's ambitions and accomplishments, but also points out the distasteful
irony of a high-end hipster brand trading on its location in a struggling city.
Soon after Detroit went bankrupt, and residents were literally freezing to death
at home, Shinola sent out a tweet saying: ''Bankruptcy, shmankruptcy. We have a
lot of job openings here in #Detroit. Come join our team!''

The battle between digital and analog may not be quite as benign as Sax paints
it. There are plenty of talented people who work in music, journalism and
photography whose careers have been all but washed away by the internet's
disruption. Sax sets many of his scenes in Toronto (his board-game-besotted
hometown), in Britain and in Italy, where he makes a convincing case that a
vigorous and amorous fight for analog is afoot. But anyone who loved Other Music
in New York or Rocket Video in Los Angeles, or any of the many bookstores
destroyed by online bookselling, will know that there's another side to the
story.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/09/books/review/revenge-of-analog-david-sax.html

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 13, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Quotation of the Day

SECTION: TODAYSPAPER

LENGTH: 56 words



HIGHLIGHT: Quotation of the day for Wednesday, December 14, 2016.


"This was not something that was done casually, this was not something that was
done by chance, this was not a target that was selected purely arbitrarily."

ADM. MICHAEL S. ROGERS, the director of the National Security Agency and
commander of United States Cyber Command, on Russian efforts to disrupt the
American presidential election.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 13, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

The Perfect Weapon: How Russian Cyberpower Invaded the U.S.

BYLINE: ERIC LIPTON, DAVID E. SANGER and SCOTT SHANE

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 8152 words



HIGHLIGHT: A Times investigation reveals missed signals, slow responses and a
continuing underestimation of the seriousness of a campaign to disrupt the 2016
presidential election.


Correction Appended

WASHINGTON -- When Special Agent Adrian Hawkins of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation called the Democratic National Committee in September 2015 to pass
along some troubling news about its computer network, he was transferred,
naturally, to the help desk.

His message was brief, if alarming. At least one computer system belonging to
the D.N.C. had been compromised by hackers federal investigators had named "the
Dukes," a cyberespionage team linked to the Russian government.

The F.B.I. knew it well: The bureau had spent the last few years trying to kick
the Dukes out of the unclassified email systems of the White House, the State
Department and even the Joint Chiefs of Staff, one of the government's
best-protected networks.

Yared Tamene, the tech-support contractor at the D.N.C. who fielded the call,
was no expert in cyberattacks. His first moves were to check Google for "the
Dukes" and conduct a cursory search of the D.N.C. computer system logs to look
for hints of such a cyberintrusion. By his own account, he did not look too hard
even after Special Agent Hawkins called back repeatedly over the next several
weeks -- in part because he wasn't certain the caller was a real F.B.I. agent
and not an impostor.

"I had no way of differentiating the call I just received from a prank call,"
Mr. Tamene wrote in an internal memo, obtained by The New York Times, that
detailed his contact with the F.B.I.

It was the cryptic first sign of a cyberespionage and information-warfare
campaign devised to disrupt the 2016 presidential election, the first such
attempt by a foreign power in American history. What started as an
information-gathering operation, intelligence officials believe, ultimately
morphed into an effort to harm one candidate, Hillary Clinton, and tip the
election to her opponent, Donald J. Trump.

Like another famous American election scandal, it started with a break-in at the
D.N.C. The first time, 44 years ago at the committee's old offices in the
Watergate complex, the burglars planted listening devices and jimmied a filing
cabinet. This time, the burglary was conducted from afar, directed by the
Kremlin, with spear-phishing emails and zeros and ones.

An examination by The Times of the Russian operation -- based on interviews with
dozens of players targeted in the attack, intelligence officials who
investigated it and Obama administration officials who deliberated over the best
response -- reveals a series of missed signals, slow responses and a continuing
underestimation of the seriousness of the cyberattack.

The D.N.C.'s fumbling encounter with the F.B.I. meant the best chance to halt
the Russian intrusion was lost. The failure to grasp the scope of the attacks
undercut efforts to minimize their impact. And the White House's reluctance to
respond forcefully meant the Russians have not paid a heavy price for their
actions, a decision that could prove critical in deterring future cyberattacks.

The low-key approach of the F.B.I. meant that Russian hackers could roam freely
through the committee's network for nearly seven months before top D.N.C.
officials were alerted to the attack and hired cyberexperts to protect their
systems. In the meantime, the hackers moved on to targets outside the D.N.C.,
including Mrs. Clinton's campaign chairman, John D. Podesta, whose private email
account was hacked months later.

Even Mr. Podesta, a savvy Washington insider who had written a 2014 report on
cyberprivacy for President Obama, did not truly understand the gravity of the
hacking.

By last summer, Democrats watched in helpless fury as their private emails and
confidential documents appeared online day after day -- procured by Russian
intelligence agents, posted on WikiLeaks and other websites, then eagerly
reported on by the American media, including The Times. Mr. Trump gleefully
cited many of the purloined emails on the campaign trail.

The fallout included the resignations of Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz
of Florida, the chairwoman of the D.N.C., and most of her top party aides.
Leading Democrats were sidelined at the height of the campaign, silenced by
revelations of embarrassing emails or consumed by the scramble to deal with the
hacking. Though little-noticed by the public, confidential documents taken by
the Russian hackers from the D.N.C.'s sister organization, the Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee, turned up in congressional races in a dozen
states, tainting some of them with accusations of scandal.

In recent days, a skeptical president-elect, the nation's intelligence agencies
and the two major parties have become embroiled in an extraordinary public
dispute over what evidence exists that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia
moved beyond mere espionage to deliberately try to subvert American democracy
and pick the winner of the presidential election.

Many of Mrs. Clinton's closest aides believe that the Russian assault had a
profound impact on the election, while conceding that other factors -- Mrs.
Clinton's weaknesses as a candidate; her private email server; the public
statements of the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, about her handling of
classified information -- were also important.

While there's no way to be certain of the ultimate impact of the hack, this much
is clear: A low-cost, high-impact weapon that Russia had test-fired in elections
from Ukraine to Europe was trained on the United States, with devastating
effectiveness. For Russia, with an enfeebled economy and a nuclear arsenal it
cannot use short of all-out war, cyberpower proved the perfect weapon: cheap,
hard to see coming, hard to trace.

"There shouldn't be any doubt in anybody's mind," Adm. Michael S. Rogers, the
director of the National Security Agency and commander of United States Cyber
Command, said at a postelection conference. "This was not something that was
done casually, this was not something that was done by chance, this was not a
target that was selected purely arbitrarily," he said. "This was a conscious
effort by a nation-state to attempt to achieve a specific effect."

For the people whose emails were stolen, this new form of political sabotage has
left a trail of shock and professional damage. Neera Tanden, president of the
Center for American Progress and a key Clinton supporter, recalls walking into
the busy Clinton transition offices, humiliated to see her face on television
screens as pundits discussed a leaked email in which she had called Mrs.
Clinton's instincts "suboptimal."

"It was just a sucker punch to the gut every day," Ms. Tanden said. "It was the
worst professional experience of my life."

The United States, too, has carried out cyberattacks, and in decades past the
C.I.A. tried to subvert foreign elections. But the Russian attack is
increasingly understood across the political spectrum as an ominous historic
landmark -- with one notable exception: Mr. Trump has rejected the findings of
the intelligence agencies he will soon oversee as "ridiculous," insisting that
the hacker may be American, or Chinese, but that "they have no idea."

Mr. Trump cited the reported disagreements between the agencies about whether
Mr. Putin intended to help elect him. On Tuesday, a Russian government spokesman
echoed Mr. Trump's scorn.

"This tale of 'hacks' resembles a banal brawl between American security
officials over spheres of influence," Maria Zakharova, the spokeswoman for the
Russian Foreign Ministry, wrote on Facebook.

Over the weekend, four prominent senators -- two Republicans and two Democrats
-- joined forces to pledge an investigation while pointedly ignoring Mr. Trump's
skeptical claims.

"Democrats and Republicans must work together, and across the jurisdictional
lines of the Congress, to examine these recent incidents thoroughly and devise
comprehensive solutions to deter and defend against further cyberattacks," said
Senators John McCain, Lindsey Graham, Chuck Schumer and Jack Reed.

"This cannot become a partisan issue," they said. "The stakes are too high for
our country."

A Target for Break-Ins

Sitting in the basement of the Democratic National Committee headquarters, below
a wall-size 2012 portrait of a smiling Barack Obama, is a 1960s-era filing
cabinet missing the handle on the bottom drawer. Only a framed newspaper story
hanging on the wall hints at the importance of this aged piece of office
furniture.

"GOP Security Aide Among 5 Arrested in Bugging Affair," reads the headline from
the front page of The Washington Post on June 19, 1972, with the bylines of Bob
Woodward and Carl Bernstein.

Andrew Brown, 37, the technology director at the D.N.C., was born after that
famous break-in. But as he began to plan for this year's election cycle, he was
well aware that the D.N.C. could become a break-in target again.

There were aspirations to ensure that the D.N.C. was well protected against
cyberintruders -- and then there was the reality, Mr. Brown and his bosses at
the organization acknowledged: The D.N.C. was a nonprofit group, dependent on
donations, with a fraction of the security budget that a corporation its size
would have.

"There was never enough money to do everything we needed to do," Mr. Brown said.

The D.N.C. had a standard email spam-filtering service, intended to block
phishing attacks and malware created to resemble legitimate email. But when
Russian hackers started in on the D.N.C., the committee did not have the most
advanced systems in place to track suspicious traffic, internal D.N.C. memos
show.

Mr. Tamene, who reports to Mr. Brown and fielded the call from the F.B.I. agent,
was not a full-time D.N.C. employee; he works for a Chicago-based contracting
firm called The MIS Department. He was left to figure out, largely on his own,
how to respond -- and even whether the man who had called in to the D.N.C.
switchboard was really an F.B.I. agent.

"The F.B.I. thinks the D.N.C. has at least one compromised computer on its
network and the F.B.I. wanted to know if the D.N.C. is aware, and if so, what
the D.N.C. is doing about it," Mr. Tamene wrote in an internal memo about his
contacts with the F.B.I. He added that "the Special Agent told me to look for a
specific type of malware dubbed 'Dukes' by the U.S. intelligence community and
in cybersecurity circles."

Part of the problem was that Special Agent Hawkins did not show up in person at
the D.N.C. Nor could he email anyone there, as that risked alerting the hackers
that the F.B.I. knew they were in the system.

Mr. Tamene's initial scan of the D.N.C. system -- using his less-than-optimal
tools and incomplete targeting information from the F.B.I. -- found nothing. So
when Special Agent Hawkins called repeatedly in October, leaving voice mail
messages for Mr. Tamene, urging him to call back, "I did not return his calls,
as I had nothing to report," Mr. Tamene explained in his memo.

In November, Special Agent Hawkins called with more ominous news. A D.N.C.
computer was "calling home, where home meant Russia," Mr. Tamene's memo says,
referring to software sending information to Moscow. "SA Hawkins added that the
F.B.I. thinks that this calling home behavior could be the result of a
state-sponsored attack."

Mr. Brown knew that Mr. Tamene, who declined to comment, was fielding calls from
the F.B.I. But he was tied up on a different problem: evidence suggesting that
the campaign of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Mrs. Clinton's main
Democratic opponent, had improperly gained access to her campaign data.

Ms. Wasserman Schultz, then the D.N.C.'s chairwoman, and Amy Dacey, then its
chief executive, said in interviews that neither of them was notified about the
early reports that the committee's system had likely been compromised.

Shawn Henry, who once led the F.B.I.'s cyber division and is now president of
CrowdStrike Services, the cybersecurity firm retained by the D.N.C. in April,
said he was baffled that the F.B.I. did not call a more senior official at the
D.N.C. or send an agent in person to the party headquarters to try to force a
more vigorous response.

"We are not talking about an office that is in the middle of the woods of
Montana," Mr. Henry said. "We are talking about an office that is half a mile
from the F.B.I. office that is getting the notification."

"This is not a mom-and-pop delicatessen or a local library. This is a critical
piece of the U.S. infrastructure because it relates to our electoral process,
our elected officials, our legislative process, our executive process," he
added. "To me it is a high-level, serious issue, and if after a couple of months
you don't see any results, somebody ought to raise that to a higher level."

The F.B.I. declined to comment on the agency's handling of the hack. "The F.B.I.
takes very seriously any compromise of public and private sector systems," it
said in a statement, adding that agents "will continue to share information" to
help targets "safeguard their systems against the actions of persistent
cybercriminals."

By March, Mr. Tamene and his team had met at least twice in person with the
F.B.I. and concluded that Agent Hawkins was really a federal employee. But then
the situation took a dire turn.

A second team of Russian-affiliated hackers began to target the D.N.C. and other
players in the political world, particularly Democrats. Billy Rinehart, a former
D.N.C. regional field director who was then working for Mrs. Clinton's campaign,
got an odd email warning from Google.

"Someone just used your password to try to sign into your Google account," the
March 22 email said, adding that the sign-in attempt had occurred in Ukraine.
"Google stopped this sign-in attempt. You should change your password
immediately."

Mr. Rinehart was in Hawaii at the time. He remembers checking his email at 4
a.m. for messages from East Coast associates. Without thinking much about the
notification, he clicked on the "change password" button and half asleep, as
best he can remember, he typed in a new password.

What he did not know until months later is that he had just given the Russian
hackers access to his email account.

Hundreds of similar phishing emails were being sent to American political
targets, including an identical email sent on March 19 to Mr. Podesta, chairman
of the Clinton campaign. Given how many emails Mr. Podesta received through this
personal email account, several aides also had access to it, and one of them
noticed the warning email, sending it to a computer technician to make sure it
was legitimate before anyone clicked on the "change password" button.

"This is a legitimate email," Charles Delavan, a Clinton campaign aide, replied
to another of Mr. Podesta's aides, who had noticed the alert. "John needs to
change his password immediately."

With another click, a decade of emails that Mr. Podesta maintained in his Gmail
account -- a total of about 60,000 -- were unlocked for the Russian hackers. Mr.
Delavan, in an interview, said that his bad advice was a result of a typo: He
knew this was a phishing attack, as the campaign was getting dozens of them. He
said he had meant to type that it was an "illegitimate" email, an error that he
said has plagued him ever since.

During this second wave, the hackers also gained access to the Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee, and then, through a virtual private network
connection, to the main computer network of the D.N.C.

The F.B.I. observed this surge of activity as well, again reaching out to Mr.
Tamene to warn him. Yet Mr. Tamene still saw no reason to be alarmed: He found
copies of the phishing emails in the D.N.C.'s spam filter. But he had no reason,
he said, to believe that the computer systems had been infiltrated.

One bit of progress had finally been made by the middle of April: The D.N.C.,
seven months after it had first been warned, finally installed a "robust set of
monitoring tools," Mr. Tamene's internal memo says.

Honing Stealthy Tactics

The United States had two decades of warning that Russia's intelligence agencies
were trying to break into America's most sensitive computer networks. But the
Russians have always managed to stay a step ahead.

Their first major attack was detected on Oct. 7, 1996, when a computer operator
at the Colorado School of Mines discovered some nighttime computer activity he
could not explain. The school had a major contract with the Navy, and the
operator warned his contacts there. But as happened two decades later at the
D.N.C., at first "everyone was unable to connect the dots," said Thomas Rid, a
scholar at King's College in London who has studied the attack.

Investigators gave it a name -- Moonlight Maze -- and spent two years, often
working day and night, tracing how it hopped from the Navy to the Department of
Energy to the Air Force and NASA. In the end, they concluded that the total
number of files stolen, if printed and stacked, would be taller than the
Washington Monument.

Whole weapons designs were flowing out the door, and it was a first taste of
what was to come: an escalating campaign of cyberattacks around the world.

But for years, the Russians stayed largely out of the headlines, thanks to the
Chinese -- who took bigger risks, and often got caught. They stole the designs
for the F-35 fighter jet, corporate secrets for rolling steel, even the
blueprints for gas pipelines that supply much of the United States. And during
the 2008 presidential election cycle, Chinese intelligence hacked into the
campaigns of Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain, making off with internal position papers
and communications. But they didn't publish any of it.

The Russians had not gone away, of course. "They were just a lot more stealthy,"
said Kevin Mandia, a former Air Force intelligence officer who spent most of his
days fighting off Russian cyberattacks before founding Mandiant, a cybersecurity
firm that is now a division of FireEye -- and the company the Clinton campaign
brought in to secure its own systems.

The Russians were also quicker to turn their attacks to political purposes. A
2007 cyberattack on Estonia, a former Soviet republic that had joined NATO, sent
a message that Russia could paralyze the country without invading it. The next
year cyberattacks were used during Russia's war with Georgia.

But American officials did not imagine that the Russians would dare try those
techniques inside the United States. They were largely focused on preventing
what former Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta warned was an approaching "cyber
Pearl Harbor" -- a shutdown of the power grid or cellphone networks.

But in 2014 and 2015, a Russian hacking group began systematically targeting the
State Department, the White House and the Joint Chiefs of Staff. "Each time,
they eventually met with some form of success," Michael Sulmeyer, a former
cyberexpert for the secretary of defense, and Ben Buchanan, now both of the
Harvard Cyber Security Project, wrote recently in a soon-to-be published paper
for the Carnegie Endowment.

The Russians grew stealthier and stealthier, tricking government computers into
sending out data while disguising the electronic "command and control" messages
that set off alarms for anyone looking for malicious actions. The State
Department was so crippled that it repeatedly closed its systems to throw out
the intruders. At one point, officials traveling to Vienna with Secretary of
State John Kerry for the Iran nuclear negotiations had to set up commercial
Gmail accounts just to communicate with one another and with reporters traveling
with them.

Mr. Obama was briefed regularly on all this, but he made a decision that many in
the White House now regret: He did not name Russians publicly, or issue
sanctions. There was always a reason: fear of escalating a cyberwar, and concern
that the United States needed Russia's cooperation in negotiations over Syria.

"We'd have all these circular meetings," one senior State Department official
said, "in which everyone agreed you had to push back at the Russians and push
back hard. But it didn't happen."

So the Russians escalated again -- breaking into systems not just for espionage,
but to publish or broadcast what they found, known as "doxing" in the
cyberworld.

It was a brazen change in tactics, moving the Russians from espionage to
influence operations. In February 2014, they broadcast an intercepted phone call
between Victoria Nuland, the assistant secretary of state who handles Russian
affairs and has a contentious relationship with Mr. Putin, and Geoffrey Pyatt,
the United States ambassador to Ukraine. Ms. Nuland was heard describing a
little-known American effort to broker a deal in Ukraine, then in political
turmoil.

They were not the only ones on whom the Russians used the steal-and-leak
strategy. The Open Society Foundation, run by George Soros, was a major target,
and when its documents were released, some turned out to have been altered to
make it appear as if the foundation was financing Russian opposition members.

Last year, the attacks became more aggressive. Russia hacked a major French
television station, frying critical hardware. Around Christmas, it attacked part
of the power grid in Ukraine, dropping a portion of the country into darkness,
killing backup generators and taking control of generators. In retrospect, it
was a warning shot.

The attacks "were not fully integrated military operations," Mr. Sulmeyer said.
But they showed an increasing boldness.

Cozy Bear and Fancy Bear

The day before the White House Correspondents' Association dinner in April, Ms.
Dacey, the D.N.C.'s chief executive, was preparing for a night of parties when
she got an urgent phone call.

With the new monitoring system in place, Mr. Tamene had examined administrative
logs of the D.N.C.'s computer system and found something very suspicious: An
unauthorized person, with administrator-level security status, had gained access
to the D.N.C.'s computers.

"Not sure it is related to what the F.B.I. has been noticing," said one internal
D.N.C. email sent on April 29. "The D.N.C. may have been hacked in a serious way
this week, with password theft, etc."

No one knew just how bad the breach was -- but it was clear that a lot more than
a single filing cabinet worth of materials might have been taken. A secret
committee was immediately created, including Ms. Dacey, Ms. Wasserman Schultz,
Mr. Brown and Michael Sussmann, a former cybercrimes prosecutor at the
Department of Justice who now works at Perkins Coie, the Washington law firm
that handles D.N.C. political matters.

"Three most important questions," Mr. Sussmann wrote to his clients the night
the break-in was confirmed. "1) What data was accessed? 2) How was it done? 3)
How do we stop it?"

Mr. Sussmann instructed his clients not to use D.N.C. email because they had
just one opportunity to lock the hackers out -- an effort that could be foiled
if the hackers knew that the D.N.C. was on to them.

"You only get one chance to raise the drawbridge," Mr. Sussmann said. "If the
adversaries know you are aware of their presence, they will take steps to burrow
in, or erase the logs that show they were present."

The D.N.C. immediately hired CrowdStrike, a cybersecurity firm, to scan its
computers, identify the intruders and build a new computer and telephone system
from scratch. Within a day, CrowdStrike confirmed that the intrusion had
originated in Russia, Mr. Sussmann said.

The work that such companies do is a computer version of old-fashioned crime
scene investigation, with fingerprints, bullet casings and DNA swabs replaced by
an electronic trail that can be just as incriminating. And just as police
detectives learn to identify the telltale methods of a veteran burglar, so
CrowdStrike investigators recognized the distinctive handiwork of Cozy Bear and
Fancy Bear.

Those are CrowdStrike's nicknames for the two Russian hacking groups that the
firm found at work inside the D.N.C. network. Cozy Bear -- the group also known
as the Dukes or A.P.T. 29, for "advanced persistent threat" -- may or may not be
associated with the F.S.B., the main successor to the Soviet-era K.G.B., but it
is widely believed to be a Russian government operation. It made its first
appearance in 2014, said Dmitri Alperovitch, CrowdStrike's co-founder and chief
technology officer.

It was Cozy Bear, CrowdStrike concluded, that first penetrated the D.N.C. in the
summer of 2015, by sending spear-phishing emails to a long list of American
government agencies, Washington nonprofits and government contractors. Whenever
someone clicked on a phishing message, the Russians would enter the network,
"exfiltrate" documents of interest and stockpile them for intelligence purposes.

"Once they got into the D.N.C., they found the data valuable and decided to
continue the operation," said Mr. Alperovitch, who was born in Russia and moved
to the United States as a teenager.

Only in March 2016 did Fancy Bear show up -- first penetrating the computers of
the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, and then jumping to the D.N.C.,
investigators believe. Fancy Bear, sometimes called A.P.T. 28 and believed to be
directed by the G.R.U., Russia's military intelligence agency, is an older
outfit, tracked by Western investigators for nearly a decade. It was Fancy Bear
that got hold of Mr. Podesta's email.

Attribution, as the skill of identifying a cyberattacker is known, is more art
than science. It is often impossible to name an attacker with absolute
certainty. But over time, by accumulating a reference library of hacking
techniques and targets, it is possible to spot repeat offenders. Fancy Bear, for
instance, has gone after military and political targets in Ukraine and Georgia,
and at NATO installations.

That largely rules out cybercriminals and most countries, Mr. Alperovitch said.
"There's no plausible actor that has an interest in all those victims other than
Russia," he said. Another clue: The Russian hacking groups tended to be active
during working hours in the Moscow time zone.

To their astonishment, Mr. Alperovitch said, CrowdStrike experts found signs
that the two Russian hacking groups had not coordinated their attacks. Fancy
Bear, apparently not knowing that Cozy Bear had been rummaging in D.N.C. files
for months, took many of the same documents.

In the six weeks after CrowdStrike's arrival, in total secrecy, the computer
system at the D.N.C. was replaced. For a weekend, email and phones were shut
off; employees were told it was a system upgrade. All laptops were turned in and
the hard drives wiped clean, with the uninfected information on them imaged to
new drives.

Though D.N.C. officials had learned that the Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee had been infected, too, they did not notify their sister organization,
which was in the same building, because they were afraid that it would leak.

All of this work took place as the bitter contest for the Democratic nomination
continued to play out between Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Sanders, and it was already
causing a major distraction for Ms. Wasserman Schultz and the D.N.C.'s chief
executive.

"This was not a bump in the road -- bumps in the road happen all the time," she
said in an interview. "Two different Russian spy agencies had hacked into our
network and stolen our property. And we did not yet know what they had taken.
But we knew they had very broad access to our network. There was a tremendous
amount of uncertainty. And it was chilling."

The D.N.C. executives and their lawyer had their first formal meeting with
senior F.B.I. officials in mid-June, nine months after the bureau's first call
to the tech-support contractor. Among the early requests at that meeting,
according to participants: that the federal government make a quick
"attribution" formally blaming actors with ties to Russian government for the
attack to make clear that it was not routine hacking but foreign espionage.

"You have a presidential election underway here and you know that the Russians
have hacked into the D.N.C.," Mr. Sussmann said, recalling the message to the
F.B.I. "We need to tell the American public that. And soon."

The Media's Role

In mid-June, on Mr. Sussmann's advice, D.N.C. leaders decided to take a bold
step. Concerned that word of the hacking might leak, they decided to go public
in The Washington Post with the news that the committee had been attacked. That
way, they figured, they could get ahead of the story, win a little sympathy from
voters for being victimized by Russian hackers and refocus on the campaign.

But the very next day, a new, deeply unsettling shock awaited them. Someone
calling himself Guccifer 2.0 appeared on the web, claiming to be the D.N.C.
hacker -- and he posted a confidential committee document detailing Mr. Trump's
record and half a dozen other documents to prove his bona fides.

"And it's just a tiny part of all docs I downloaded from the Democrats
networks," he wrote. Then something more ominous: "The main part of the papers,
thousands of files and mails, I gave to WikiLeaks. They will publish them soon."

It was bad enough that Russian hackers had been spying inside the committee's
network for months. Now the public release of documents had turned a
conventional espionage operation into something far more menacing: political
sabotage, an unpredictable, uncontrollable menace for Democratic campaigns.

Guccifer 2.0 borrowed the moniker of an earlier hacker, a Romanian who called
himself Guccifer and was jailed for breaking into the personal computers of
former President George W. Bush, former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and
other notables. This new attacker seemed intent on showing that the D.N.C.'s
cyberexperts at CrowdStrike were wrong to blame Russia. Guccifer 2.0 called
himself a "lone hacker" and mocked CrowdStrike for calling the attackers
"sophisticated."

But online investigators quickly undercut his story. On a whim, Lorenzo
Franceschi-Bicchierai, a writer for Motherboard, the tech and culture site of
Vice, tried to contact Guccifer 2.0 by direct message on Twitter.

"Surprisingly, he answered right away," Mr. Franceschi-Bicchierai said. But
whoever was on the other end seemed to be mocking him. "I asked him why he did
it, and he said he wanted to expose the Illuminati. He called himself a Gucci
lover. And he said he was Romanian."

That gave Mr. Franceschi-Bicchierai an idea. Using Google Translate, he sent the
purported hacker some questions in Romanian. The answers came back in Romanian.
But when he was offline, Mr. Franceschi-Bicchierai checked with a couple of
native speakers, who told him Guccifer 2.0 had apparently been using Google
Translate as well -- and was clearly not the Romanian he claimed to be.

Cyberresearchers found other clues pointing to Russia. Microsoft Word documents
posted by Guccifer 2.0 had been edited by someone calling himself, in Russian,
Felix Edmundovich -- an obvious nom de guerre honoring the founder of the Soviet
secret police, Felix Edmundovich Dzerzhinsky. Bad links in the texts were marked
by warnings in Russian, generated by what was clearly a Russian-language version
of Word.

When Mr. Franceschi-Bicchierai managed to engage Guccifer 2.0 over a period of
weeks, he found that his interlocutor's tone and manner changed. "At first he
was careless and colloquial. Weeks later, he was curt and more calculating," he
said. "It seemed like a group of people, and a very sloppy attempt to cover up."

Computer experts drew the same conclusion about DCLeaks.com, a site that sprang
up in June, claiming to be the work of "hacktivists" but posting more stolen
documents. It, too, seemed to be a clumsy front for the same Russians who had
stolen the documents. Notably, the website was registered in April, suggesting
that the Russian hacking team planned well in advance to make public what it
stole.

In addition to what Guccifer 2.0 published on his site, he provided material
directly on request to some bloggers and publications. The steady flow of
Guccifer 2.0 documents constantly undercut Democratic messaging efforts. On July
6, 12 days before the Republican National Convention began in Cleveland,
Guccifer released the D.N.C.'s battle plan and budget for countering it. For
Republican operatives, it was insider gold.

Then WikiLeaks, a far more established outlet, began to publish the hacked
material -- just as Guccifer 2.0 had promised. On July 22, three days before the
start of the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia, WikiLeaks dumped
out 44,053 D.N.C. emails with 17,761 attachments. Some of the messages made
clear that some D.N.C. officials favored Mrs. Clinton over her progressive
challenger, Mr. Sanders.

That was no shock; Mr. Sanders, after all, had been an independent socialist,
not a Democrat, during his long career in Congress, while Mrs. Clinton had been
one of the party's stars for decades. But the emails, some of them crude or
insulting, infuriated Sanders delegates as they arrived in Philadelphia. Ms.
Wasserman Schultz resigned under pressure on the eve of the convention where she
had planned to preside.

Mr. Trump, by now the Republican nominee, expressed delight at the continuing
jolts to his opponent, and he began to use Twitter and his stump speeches to
highlight the WikiLeaks releases. On July 25, he sent out a lighthearted tweet:
"The new joke in town," he wrote, "is that Russia leaked the disastrous D.N.C.
e-mails, which should never have been written (stupid), because Putin likes me."

But WikiLeaks was far from finished. On Oct. 7, a month before the election, the
site began the serial publication of thousands of private emails to and from Mr.
Podesta, Mrs. Clinton's campaign manager.

The same day, the United States formally accused the Russian government of being
behind the hackings, in a joint statement by the director of national
intelligence and the Department of Homeland Security, and Mr. Trump suffered his
worst blow to date, with the release of a recording in which he bragged about
sexually assaulting women.

The Podesta emails were nowhere near as sensational as the Trump video. But,
released by WikiLeaks day after day over the last month of the campaign, they
provided material for countless news reports. They disclosed the contents of
Mrs. Clinton's speeches to large banks, which she had refused to release. They
exposed tensions inside the campaign, including disagreements over donations to
the Clinton Foundation that staff members thought might look bad for the
candidate and Ms. Tanden's complaint that Mrs. Clinton's instincts were
"suboptimal."

"I was just mortified," Ms. Tanden said in an interview. Her emails were
released on the eve of one of the presidential debates, she recalled. "I put my
hands over my head and said, 'I can't believe this is happening to me.'" Though
she had regularly appeared on television to support Mrs. Clinton, she canceled
her appearances because all the questions were about what she had said in the
emails.

Ms. Tanden, like other Democrats whose messages became public, said it was
obvious to her that WikiLeaks was trying its best to damage the Clinton
campaign. "If you care about transparency, you put all the emails out at once,"
she said. "But they wanted to hurt her. So they put them out 1,800 to 3,000 a
day."

The Trump campaign knew in advance about WikiLeaks' plans. Days before the
Podesta email release began, Roger Stone, a Republican operative working with
the Trump campaign, sent out an excited tweet about what was coming.

But in an interview, Mr. Stone said he had no role in the leaks; he had just
heard from an American with ties to WikiLeaks that damning emails were coming.

Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder and editor, has resisted the conclusion
that his site became a pass-through for Russian hackers working for Mr. Putin's
government or that he was deliberately trying to undermine Mrs. Clinton's
candidacy. But the evidence on both counts appears compelling.

In a series of email exchanges, Mr. Assange refused to say anything about
WikiLeaks' source for the hacked material. He denied that he had made his animus
toward Mrs. Clinton clear in public statements ("False. But what is this? Junior
high?") or that the site had timed the releases for maximum negative effect on
her campaign. "WikiLeaks makes its decisions based on newsworthiness, including
for its recent epic scoops," he wrote.

Mr. Assange disputed the conclusion of the Oct. 7 statement from the
intelligence agencies that the leaks were "intended to interfere with the U.S.
election process."

"This is false," he wrote. "As the disclosing party we know that this was not
the intent. Publishers publishing newsworthy information during an election is
part of a free election."

But asked whether he believed the leaks were one reason for Mr. Trump's
election, Mr. Assange seemed happy to take credit. "Americans extensively
engaged with our publications," he wrote. "According to Facebook statistics
WikiLeaks was the most referenced political topic during October."

Though Mr. Assange did not say so, WikiLeaks' best defense may be the conduct of
the mainstream American media. Every major publication, including The Times,
published multiple stories citing the D.N.C. and Podesta emails posted by
WikiLeaks, becoming a de facto instrument of Russian intelligence.

Mr. Putin, a student of martial arts, had turned two institutions at the core of
American democracy -- political campaigns and independent media -- to his own
ends. The media's appetite for the hacked material, and its focus on the gossipy
content instead of the Russian source, disturbed some of those whose personal
emails were being reposted across the web.

"What was really surprising to me?" Ms. Tanden said. "I could not believe that
reporters were covering it."

Devising a Government Response

Inside the White House, as Mr. Obama's advisers debated their response, their
conversation turned to North Korea.

In late 2014, hackers working for Kim Jong-un, the North's young and
unpredictable leader, had carried out a well-planned attack on Sony Pictures
Entertainment intended to stop the Christmastime release of a comedy about a
C.I.A. plot to kill Mr. Kim.

In that case, embarrassing emails had also been released. But the real damage
was done to Sony's own systems: More than 70 percent of its computers melted
down when a particularly virulent form of malware was released. Within weeks,
intelligence agencies traced the attack back to the North and its leadership.
Mr. Obama called North Korea out in public, and issued some not-very-effective
sanctions. The Chinese even cooperated, briefly cutting off the North's internet
connections.

As the first Situation Room meetings on the Russian hacking began in July, "it
was clear that Russia was going to be a much more complicated case," said one
participant. The Russians clearly had a more sophisticated understanding of
American politics, and they were masters of "kompromat," their term for
compromising information.

But a formal "attribution report" still had not been forwarded to the president.

"It took forever," one senior administration official said, complaining about
the pace at which the intelligence assessments moved through the system.

In August a group that called itself the "Shadow Brokers" published a set of
software tools that looked like what the N.S.A. uses to break into foreign
computer networks and install "implants," malware that can be used for
surveillance or attack. The code came from the Tailored Access Operations unit
of the N.S.A., a secretive group that mastered the arts of surveillance and
cyberwar.

The assumption -- still unproved -- was that the code was put out in the open by
the Russians as a warning: Retaliate for the D.N.C., and there are a lot more
secrets, from the hackings of the State Department, the White House and the
Pentagon, that might be spilled as well. One senior official compared it to the
scene in "The Godfather" where the head of a favorite horse is left in a bed, as
a warning.

The N.S.A. said nothing. But by late August, Admiral Rogers, its director, was
pressing for a more muscular response to the Russians. In his role as director
of the Pentagon's Cyber Command, he proposed a series of potential
counter-cyberstrikes.

While officials will not discuss them in detail, the possible counterstrikes
reportedly included operations that would turn the tables on Mr. Putin, exposing
his financial links to Russia's oligarchs, and punching holes in the Russian
internet to allow dissidents to get their message out. Pentagon officials judged
the measures too unsubtle and ordered up their own set of options.

But in the end, none of those were formally presented to the president.

In a series of "deputies meetings" run by Avril Haines, the deputy national
security adviser and a former deputy director of the C.I.A., several officials
warned that an overreaction by the administration would play into Mr. Putin's
hands.

"If we went to Defcon 4," one frequent participant in Ms. Haines's meetings
said, using a phrase from the Cold War days of warnings of war, "we would be
saying to the public that we didn't have confidence in the integrity of our
voting system."

Even something seemingly straightforward -- using the president's executive
powers, bolstered after the Sony incident, to place economic and travel
sanctions on cyberattackers -- seemed too risky.

"No one was all that eager to impose costs before Election Day," said another
participant in the classified meeting. "Any retaliatory measures were seen
through the prism of what would happen on Election Day."

Instead, when Mr. Obama's national security team reconvened after summer
vacation, the focus turned to a crash effort to secure the nation's voting
machines and voter-registration rolls from hacking. The scenario they discussed
most frequently -- one that turned out not to be an issue -- was a narrow vote
in favor of Mrs. Clinton, followed by a declaration by Mr. Trump that the vote
was "rigged" and more leaks intended to undercut her legitimacy.

Donna Brazile, the interim chairwoman of the D.N.C., became increasingly
frustrated as the clock continued to run down on the presidential election --
and still there was no broad public condemnation by the White House, or
Republican Party leaders, of the attack as an act of foreign espionage.

Ms. Brazile even reached out to Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican
National Committee, urging him twice in private conversations and in a letter to
join her in condemning the attacks -- an offer he declined to take up.

"We just kept hearing the government would respond, the government would
respond," she said. "Once upon a time, if a foreign government interfered with
our election we would respond as a nation, not as a political party."

But Mr. Obama did decide that he would deliver a warning to Mr. Putin in person
at a Group of 20 summit meeting in Hangzhou, China, the last time they would be
in the same place while Mr. Obama was still in office. When the two men met for
a tense pull-aside, Mr. Obama explicitly warned Mr. Putin of a strong American
response if there was continued effort to influence the election or manipulate
the vote, according to White House officials who were not present for the
one-on-one meeting.

Later that day, Mr. Obama made a rare reference to America's own offensive
cybercapacity, which he has almost never talked about. "Frankly, both
offensively and defensively, we have more capacity," he told reporters.

But when it came time to make a public assertion of Russia's role in early
October, it was made in a written statement from the director of national
intelligence and the secretary of homeland security. It was far less dramatic
than the president's appearance in the press room two years before to directly
accuse the North Koreans of attacking Sony.

The reference in the statement to hackings on "political organizations,"
officials now say, encompassed a hacking on data stored by the Republicans as
well. Two senior officials say the forensic evidence was accompanied by "human
and technical" sources in Russia, which appears to mean that the United States'
implants or taps in Russian computer and phone networks helped confirm the
country's role.

But that may not be known for decades, until the secrets are declassified.

A week later Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. was sent out to transmit a
public warning to Mr. Putin: The United States will retaliate "at the time of
our choosing. And under the circumstances that have the greatest impact."

Later, after Mr. Biden said he was not concerned that Russia could
"fundamentally alter the election," he was asked whether the American public
would know if the message to Mr. Putin had been sent.

"Hope not," Mr. Biden responded.

Some of his former colleagues think that was the wrong answer. An American
counterstrike, said Michael Morell, the former deputy director of the C.I.A.
under Mr. Obama, has "got to be overt. It needs to be seen."

A covert response would significantly limit the deterrence effect, he added. "If
you can't see it, it's not going to deter the Chinese and North Koreans and
Iranians and others."

The Obama administration says it still has more than 30 days to do exactly that.

The Next Target

As the year draws to a close, it now seems possible that there will be multiple
investigations of the Russian hacking -- the intelligence review Mr. Obama has
ordered completed by Jan. 20, the day he leaves office, and one or more
congressional inquiries. They will wrestle with, among other things, Mr. Putin's
motive.

Did he seek to mar the brand of American democracy, to forestall anti-Russian
activism for both Russians and their neighbors? Or to weaken the next American
president, since presumably Mr. Putin had no reason to doubt American forecasts
that Mrs. Clinton would win easily? Or was it, as the C.I.A. concluded last
month, a deliberate attempt to elect Mr. Trump?

In fact, the Russian hack-and-dox scheme accomplished all three goals.

What seems clear is that Russian hacking, given its success, is not going to
stop. Two weeks ago, the German intelligence chief, Bruno Kahl, warned that
Russia might target elections in Germany next year. "The perpetrators have an
interest to delegitimize the democratic process as such," Mr. Kahl said. Now, he
added, "Europe is in the focus of these attempts of disturbance, and Germany to
a particularly great extent."

But Russia has by no means forgotten its American target. On the day after the
presidential election, the cybersecurity company Volexity reported five new
waves of phishing emails, evidently from Cozy Bear, aimed at think tanks and
nonprofits in the United States.

One of them purported to be from Harvard University, attaching a fake paper. Its
title: "Why American Elections Are Flawed."

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Kitty Bennett contributed research.


Correction: December 13, 2016, Tuesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Editors'
Note: An earlier version of the main photograph with this article, of a filing
cabinet and computer at the Democratic National Committee headquarters, should
not have been published. The photographer had removed a framed image from the
wall over the filing cabinet -- showing a Washington Post Watergate front page
-- because it was causing glare with the lighting. The new version shows the
scene as it normally appears, with the framed newspaper page in place.

PHOTOS: A filing cabinet broken into during the 1972 Watergate burglary and a
computer server breached by Russian hackers are displayed at the Democratic
National Committee's headquarters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN T. GELLERSON FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); Top left, supporters of President-elect Donald J. Trump at
a "thank you" rally last week in Des Moines. Above, the headquarters of the
Russian F.S.B., the main successor to the Sovietera K.G.B., in Moscow. Left,
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK
TIMES; PAVEL GOLOVKIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS; ALEXEI NIKOLSKY) (A14-A15); John D.
Podesta, Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (A15); Charles Delavan, a Clinton campaign aide, incorrectly
legitimized a phishing email sent to Mr. Podesta's personal account. (A16);
President Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. outside the White House
after delivering remarks about the election results last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
AL DRAGO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16-A17); Hillary Clinton supporters at the Javits
Center in New York on election night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A17)

Related Articles


     ·    How We Identified the D.N.C. Hack's 'Patient Zero'
     ·    Why Russia's Cyberattack Wasn't Stopped
     ·    Democratic House Candidates Were Also Targets of Russian Hacking
     ·    Russia and the U.S. Election: What We Know and Don't Know
     ·    Trump Links C.I.A. Reports on Russia to Democrats' Shame Over Election
     ·    C.I.A. Judgment on Russia Built on Swell of Evidence


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     December 14, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Loath to Meddle in Election, Obama Delayed Blaming Russia for D.N.C. Hack

BYLINE: GARDINER HARRIS

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 614 words



HIGHLIGHT: The administration was concerned that any statement by President
Obama would be viewed as politicizing intelligence, the White House said.


WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration spent months deliberating whether to
blame Russia for a cyberattack on the Democratic National Committee, with action
delayed in part because President Obama did not want to be blamed for
politicizing intelligence, the White House said on Wednesday.

Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said that "it would've been
inappropriate for White House figures -- including the president of the United
States -- to be rushing the intelligence community to expedite their analysis of
the situation."

In particular, he described White House concerns that any statement by Mr. Obama
would be viewed as using intelligence to meddle in the election on behalf of the
president's preferred candidate, Hillary Clinton.

An F.B.I. agent initially tried in September 2015 to alert officials from the
Democratic National Committee that it was the target of a cyberattack by a group
of hackers with links to Russian intelligence. But the administration waited
until October 2016, more than a year later and after months of damaging leaks,
to confirm that intelligence agencies believed the hacks were the product of a
Russian intelligence operation.

An examination by The New York Times found that the response to the intrusions,
the first significant information-warfare campaign ever conducted by a foreign
power to disrupt a presidential campaign, was plagued by a series of missed
signals, slow responses and a continuing underestimation of the seriousness of
the cyberattack.

Part of the reason for the delay, Mr. Earnest said, was bureaucratic. "First,
they had to confirm across 17 different government agencies that they had high
confidence that this is exactly what had transpired," Mr. Earnest said.

But the administration's delayed response also resulted because Donald J. Trump,
the Republican nominee, had been making repeated claims about how the election
was being rigged, and Mr. Obama did not want to do anything that would feed
those charges, Mr. Earnest said.

When the Obama administration first took office, it was deeply aware of
criticism leveled at the prior administration of President George W. Bush that
top officials had sought to shape or politicize intelligence conclusions on
whether President Saddam Hussein of Iraq had so-called weapons of mass
destruction. Mr. Obama has said that he sought from the first days of his
presidency to protect the intelligence process from any hint of political
interference.

So while Mr. Obama in December 2014 personally condemned North Korea's hack of
Sony Pictures, he was far more reluctant to do so when political operatives were
the target of a state-sponsored hack during a presidential campaign.

"Given that the president had endorsed a candidate in the presidential race, he
believed it was important for the intelligence community to make this
announcement," Mr. Earnest said.

The Obama administration has announced that its response to the Russian hack
will be proportional and may never be publicly disclosed. Critics say that to
discourage further cyberattacks, the administration should have responded
quickly and made its response public.

But Mr. Earnest cautioned that the United States would be particularly
vulnerable in an international cyber-exchange "because we rely on 21st-century
communications technology for just about everything in a way that lots of other
societies and economies and countries don't."

He said that much of the damage from the Russian hack resulted from decisions by
news organizations to publish emails they knew to be stolen.

Related Articles


     ·    The Perfect Weapon: How Russian Cyberpower Invaded the U.S.
     ·    Democratic House Candidates Were Also Targets of Russian Hacking


LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 14, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hacking the Democrats

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON, DAVID E. SANGER and SCOTT SHANE; Kitty Bennett
contributed research.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 7934 words


WASHINGTON -- When Special Agent Adrian Hawkins of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation called the Democratic National Committee in September 2015 to pass
along some troubling news about its computer network, he was transferred,
naturally, to the help desk.

His message was brief, if alarming. At least one computer system belonging to
the D.N.C. had been compromised by hackers federal investigators had named ''the
Dukes,'' a cyberespionage team linked to the Russian government.

The F.B.I. knew it well: The bureau had spent the last few years trying to kick
the Dukes out of the unclassified email systems of the White House, the State
Department and even the Joint Chiefs of Staff, one of the government's
best-protected networks.

Yared Tamene, the tech-support contractor at the D.N.C. who fielded the call,
was no expert in cyberattacks. His first moves were to check Google for ''the
Dukes'' and conduct a cursory search of the D.N.C. computer system logs to look
for hints of such a cyberintrusion. By his own account, he did not look too hard
even after Special Agent Hawkins called back repeatedly over the next several
weeks -- in part because he wasn't certain the caller was a real F.B.I. agent
and not an impostor.

''I had no way of differentiating the call I just received from a prank call,''
Mr. Tamene wrote in an internal memo, obtained by The New York Times, that
detailed his contact with the F.B.I.

It was the cryptic first sign of a cyberespionage and information-warfare
campaign devised to disrupt the 2016 presidential election, the first such
attempt by a foreign power in American history. What started as an
information-gathering operation, intelligence officials believe, ultimately
morphed into an effort to harm one candidate, Hillary Clinton, and tip the
election to her opponent, Donald J. Trump.

Like another famous American election scandal, it started with a break-in at the
D.N.C. The first time, 44 years ago at the committee's old offices in the
Watergate complex, the burglars planted listening devices and jimmied a filing
cabinet. This time, the burglary was conducted from afar, directed by the
Kremlin, with spear-phishing emails and zeros and ones.

An examination by The Times of the Russian operation -- based on interviews with
dozens of players targeted in the attack, intelligence officials who
investigated it and Obama administration officials who deliberated over the best
response -- reveals a series of missed signals, slow responses and a continuing
underestimation of the seriousness of the cyberattack.

The D.N.C.'s fumbling encounter with the F.B.I. meant the best chance to halt
the Russian intrusion was lost. The failure to grasp the scope of the attacks
undercut efforts to minimize their impact. And the White House's reluctance to
respond forcefully meant the Russians have not paid a heavy price for their
actions, a decision that could prove critical in deterring future cyberattacks.

The low-key approach of the F.B.I. meant that Russian hackers could roam freely
through the committee's network for nearly seven months before top D.N.C.
officials were alerted to the attack and hired cyberexperts to protect their
systems. In the meantime, the hackers moved on to targets outside the D.N.C.,
including Mrs. Clinton's campaign chairman, John D. Podesta, whose private email
account was hacked months later.

Even Mr. Podesta, a savvy Washington insider who had written a 2014 report on
cyberprivacy for President Obama, did not truly understand the gravity of the
hacking.

By last summer, Democrats watched in helpless fury as their private emails and
confidential documents appeared online day after day -- procured by Russian
intelligence agents, posted on WikiLeaks and other websites, then eagerly
reported on by the American media, including The Times. Mr. Trump gleefully
cited many of the purloined emails on the campaign trail.

The fallout included the resignations of Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz
of Florida, the chairwoman of the D.N.C., and most of her top party aides.
Leading Democrats were sidelined at the height of the campaign, silenced by
revelations of embarrassing emails or consumed by the scramble to deal with the
hacking. Though little-noticed by the public, confidential documents taken by
the Russian hackers from the D.N.C.'s sister organization, the Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee, turned up in congressional races in a dozen
states, tainting some of them with accusations of scandal.

In recent days, a skeptical president-elect, the nation's intelligence agencies
and the two major parties have become embroiled in an extraordinary public
dispute over what evidence exists that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia
moved beyond mere espionage to deliberately try to subvert American democracy
and pick the winner of the presidential election.

Many of Mrs. Clinton's closest aides believe that the Russian assault had a
profound impact on the election, while conceding that other factors -- Mrs.
Clinton's weaknesses as a candidate; her private email server; the public
statements of the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, about her handling of
classified information -- were also important.

While there's no way to be certain of the ultimate impact of the hack, this much
is clear: A low-cost, high-impact weapon that Russia had test-fired in elections
from Ukraine to Europe was trained on the United States, with devastating
effectiveness. For Russia, with an enfeebled economy and a nuclear arsenal it
cannot use short of all-out war, cyberpower proved the perfect weapon: cheap,
hard to see coming, hard to trace.

''There shouldn't be any doubt in anybody's mind,'' Adm. Michael S. Rogers, the
director of the National Security Agency and commander of United States Cyber
Command said at a postelection conference. ''This was not something that was
done casually, this was not something that was done by chance, this was not a
target that was selected purely arbitrarily,'' he said. ''This was a conscious
effort by a nation-state to attempt to achieve a specific effect.''

For the people whose emails were stolen, this new form of political sabotage has
left a trail of shock and professional damage. Neera Tanden, president of the
Center for American Progress and a key Clinton supporter, recalls walking into
the busy Clinton transition offices, humiliated to see her face on television
screens as pundits discussed a leaked email in which she had called Mrs.
Clinton's instincts ''suboptimal.''

''It was just a sucker punch to the gut every day,'' Ms. Tanden said. ''It was
the worst professional experience of my life.''

The United States, too, has carried out cyberattacks, and in decades past the
C.I.A. tried to subvert foreign elections. But the Russian attack is
increasingly understood across the political spectrum as an ominous historic
landmark -- with one notable exception: Mr. Trump has rejected the findings of
the intelligence agencies he will soon oversee as ''ridiculous,'' insisting that
the hacker may be American, or Chinese, but that ''they have no idea.''

Mr. Trump cited the reported disagreements between the agencies about whether
Mr. Putin intended to help elect him. On Tuesday, a Russian government spokesman
echoed Mr. Trump's scorn.

''This tale of 'hacks' resembles a banal brawl between American security
officials over spheres of influence,'' Maria Zakharova, the spokeswoman for the
Russian Foreign Ministry, wrote on Facebook.

Over the weekend, four prominent senators -- two Republicans and two Democrats
-- joined forces to pledge an investigation while pointedly ignoring Mr. Trump's
skeptical claims.

''Democrats and Republicans must work together, and across the jurisdictional
lines of the Congress, to examine these recent incidents thoroughly and devise
comprehensive solutions to deter and defend against further cyberattacks,'' said
Senators John McCain, Lindsey Graham, Chuck Schumer and Jack Reed.

''This cannot become a partisan issue,'' they said. ''The stakes are too high
for our country.''

A Target for Break-Ins

Sitting in the basement of the Democratic National Committee headquarters, below
a wall-size 2012 portrait of a smiling Barack Obama, is a 1960s-era filing
cabinet missing the handle on the bottom drawer. Only a framed newspaper story
hanging on the wall hints at the importance of this aged piece of office
furniture.

''GOP Security Aide Among 5 Arrested in Bugging Affair,'' reads the headline
from the front page of The Washington Post on June 19, 1972, with the bylines of
Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein.

Andrew Brown, 37, the technology director at the D.N.C., was born after that
famous break-in. But as he began to plan for this year's election cycle, he was
well aware that the D.N.C. could become a break-in target again.

There were aspirations to ensure that the D.N.C. was well protected against
cyberintruders -- and then there was the reality, Mr. Brown and his bosses at
the organization acknowledged: The D.N.C. was a nonprofit group, dependent on
donations, with a fraction of the security budget that a corporation its size
would have.

''There was never enough money to do everything we needed to do,'' Mr. Brown
said.

The D.N.C. had a standard email spam-filtering service, intended to block
phishing attacks and malware created to resemble legitimate email. But when
Russian hackers started in on the D.N.C., the committee did not have the most
advanced systems in place to track suspicious traffic, internal D.N.C. memos
show.

Mr. Tamene, who reports to Mr. Brown and fielded the call from the F.B.I. agent,
was not a full-time D.N.C. employee; he works for a Chicago-based contracting
firm called The MIS Department. He was left to figure out, largely on his own,
how to respond -- and even whether the man who had called in to the D.N.C.
switchboard was really an F.B.I. agent.

''The F.B.I. thinks the D.N.C. has at least one compromised computer on its
network and the F.B.I. wanted to know if the D.N.C. is aware, and if so, what
the D.N.C. is doing about it,'' Mr. Tamene wrote in an internal memo about his
contacts with the F.B.I. He added that ''the Special Agent told me to look for a
specific type of malware dubbed 'Dukes' by the U.S. intelligence community and
in cybersecurity circles.''

Part of the problem was that Special Agent Hawkins did not show up in person at
the D.N.C. Nor could he email anyone there, as that risked alerting the hackers
that the F.B.I. knew they were in the system.

Mr. Tamene's initial scan of the D.N.C. system -- using his less-than-optimal
tools and incomplete targeting information from the F.B.I. -- found nothing. So
when Special Agent Hawkins called repeatedly in October, leaving voice mail
messages for Mr. Tamene, urging him to call back, ''I did not return his calls,
as I had nothing to report,'' Mr. Tamene explained in his memo.

In November, Special Agent Hawkins called with more ominous news. A D.N.C.
computer was ''calling home, where home meant Russia,'' Mr. Tamene's memo says,
referring to software sending information to Moscow. ''SA Hawkins added that the
F.B.I. thinks that this calling home behavior could be the result of a
state-sponsored attack.''

Mr. Brown knew that Mr. Tamene, who declined to comment, was fielding calls from
the F.B.I. But he was tied up on a different problem: evidence suggesting that
the campaign of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Mrs. Clinton's main
Democratic opponent, had improperly gained access to her campaign data.

Ms. Wasserman Schultz, then the D.N.C.'s chairwoman, and Amy Dacey, then its
chief executive, said in interviews that neither of them was notified about the
early reports that the committee's system had likely been compromised.

Shawn Henry, who once led the F.B.I.'s cyber division and is now president of
CrowdStrike Services, the cybersecurity firm retained by the D.N.C. in April,
said he was baffled that the F.B.I. did not call a more senior official at the
D.N.C. or send an agent in person to the party headquarters to try to force a
more vigorous response.

''We are not talking about an office that is in the middle of the woods of
Montana,'' Mr. Henry said. ''We are talking about an office that is half a mile
from the F.B.I. office that is getting the notification.''

''This is not a mom-and-pop delicatessen or a local library. This is a critical
piece of the U.S. infrastructure because it relates to our electoral process,
our elected officials, our legislative process, our executive process,'' he
added. ''To me it is a high-level, serious issue, and if after a couple of
months you don't see any results, somebody ought to raise that to a higher
level.''

The F.B.I. declined to comment on the agency's handling of the hack. ''The
F.B.I. takes very seriously any compromise of public and private sector
systems,'' it said in a statement, adding that agents ''will continue to share
information'' to help targets ''safeguard their systems against the actions of
persistent cybercriminals.''

By March, Mr. Tamene and his team had met at least twice in person with the
F.B.I. and concluded that Agent Hawkins was really a federal employee. But then
the situation took a dire turn.

A second team of Russian-affiliated hackers began to target the D.N.C. and other
players in the political world, particularly Democrats. Billy Rinehart, a former
D.N.C. regional field director who was then working for Mrs. Clinton's campaign,
got an odd email warning from Google.

''Someone just used your password to try to sign into your Google account,'' the
March 22 email said, adding that the sign-in attempt had occurred in Ukraine.
''Google stopped this sign-in attempt. You should change your password
immediately.''

Mr. Rinehart was in Hawaii at the time. He remembers checking his email at 4
a.m. for messages from East Coast associates. Without thinking much about the
notification, he clicked on the ''change password'' button and half asleep, as
best he can remember, he typed in a new password.

What he did not know until months later is that he had just given the Russian
hackers access to his email account.

Hundreds of similar phishing emails were being sent to American political
targets, including an identical email sent on March 19 to Mr. Podesta, chairman
of the Clinton campaign. Given how many emails Mr. Podesta received through this
personal email account, several aides also had access to it, and one of them
noticed the warning email, sending it to a computer technician to make sure it
was legitimate before anyone clicked on the ''change password'' button.

''This is a legitimate email,'' Charles Delavan, a Clinton campaign aide,
replied to another of Mr. Podesta's aides, who had noticed the alert. ''John
needs to change his password immediately.''

With another click, a decade of emails that Mr. Podesta maintained in his Gmail
account -- a total of about 60,000 -- were unlocked for the Russian hackers. Mr.
Delavan, in an interview, said that his bad advice was a result of a typo: He
knew this was a phishing attack, as the campaign was getting dozens of them. He
said he had meant to type that it was an ''illegitimate'' email, an error that
he said has plagued him ever since.

During this second wave, the hackers also gained access to the Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee, and then, through a virtual private network
connection, to the main computer network of the D.N.C.

The F.B.I. observed this surge of activity as well, again reaching out to Mr.
Tamene to warn him. Yet Mr. Tamene still saw no reason to be alarmed: He found
copies of the phishing emails in the D.N.C.'s spam filter. But he had no reason,
he said, to believe that the computer systems had been infiltrated.

One bit of progress had finally been made by the middle of April: The D.N.C.,
seven months after it had first been warned, finally installed a ''robust set of
monitoring tools,'' Mr. Tamene's internal memo says.

Honing Stealthy Tactics

The United States had two decades of warning that Russia's intelligence agencies
were trying to break into America's most sensitive computer networks. But the
Russians have always managed to stay a step ahead.

Their first major attack was detected on Oct. 7, 1996, when a computer operator
at the Colorado School of Mines discovered some nighttime computer activity he
could not explain. The school had a major contract with the Navy, and the
operator warned his contacts there. But as happened two decades later at the
D.N.C., at first ''everyone was unable to connect the dots,'' said Thomas Rid, a
scholar at King's College in London who has studied the attack.

Investigators gave it a name -- Moonlight Maze -- and spent two years, often
working day and night, tracing how it hopped from the Navy to the Department of
Energy to the Air Force and NASA. In the end, they concluded that the total
number of files stolen, if printed and stacked, would be taller than the
Washington Monument.

Whole weapons designs were flowing out the door, and it was a first taste of
what was to come: an escalating campaign of cyberattacks around the world.

But for years, the Russians stayed largely out of the headlines, thanks to the
Chinese -- who took bigger risks, and often got caught. They stole the designs
for the F-35 fighter jet, corporate secrets for rolling steel, even the
blueprints for gas pipelines that supply much of the United States. And during
the 2008 presidential election cycle, Chinese intelligence hacked into the
campaigns of Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain, making off with internal position papers
and communications. But they didn't publish any of it.

The Russians had not gone away, of course. ''They were just a lot more
stealthy,'' said Kevin Mandia, a former Air Force intelligence officer who spent
most of his days fighting off Russian cyberattacks before founding Mandiant, a
cybersecurity firm that is now a division of FireEye -- and the company the
Clinton campaign brought in to secure its own systems.

The Russians were also quicker to turn their attacks to political purposes. A
2007 cyberattack on Estonia, a former Soviet republic that had joined NATO, sent
a message that Russia could paralyze the country without invading it. The next
year cyberattacks were used during Russia's war with Georgia.

But American officials did not imagine that the Russians would dare try those
techniques inside the United States. They were largely focused on preventing
what former Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta warned was an approaching ''cyber
Pearl Harbor'' -- a shutdown of the power grid or cellphone networks.

But in 2014 and 2015, a Russian hacking group began systematically targeting the
State Department, the White House and the Joint Chiefs of Staff. ''Each time,
they eventually met with some form of success,'' Michael Sulmeyer, a former
cyberexpert for the secretary of defense, and Ben Buchanan, now both of the
Harvard Cyber Security Project, wrote recently in a soon-to-be published paper
for the Carnegie Endowment.

The Russians grew stealthier and stealthier, tricking government computers into
sending out data while disguising the electronic ''command and control''
messages that set off alarms for anyone looking for malicious actions. The State
Department was so crippled that it repeatedly closed its systems to throw out
the intruders. At one point, officials traveling to Vienna with Secretary of
State John Kerry for the Iran nuclear negotiations had to set up commercial
Gmail accounts just to communicate with one another and with reporters traveling
with them.

Mr. Obama was briefed regularly on all this, but he made a decision that many in
the White House now regret: He did not name Russians publicly, or issue
sanctions. There was always a reason: fear of escalating a cyberwar, and concern
that the United States needed Russia's cooperation in negotiations over Syria.

''We'd have all these circular meetings,'' one senior State Department official
said, ''in which everyone agreed you had to push back at the Russians and push
back hard. But it didn't happen.''

So the Russians escalated again -- breaking into systems not just for espionage,
but to publish or broadcast what they found, known as ''doxing'' in the
cyberworld.

It was a brazen change in tactics, moving the Russians from espionage to
influence operations. In February 2014, they broadcast an intercepted phone call
between Victoria Nuland, the assistant secretary of state who handles Russian
affairs and has a contentious relationship with Mr. Putin, and Geoffrey Pyatt,
the United States ambassador to Ukraine. Ms. Nuland was heard describing a
little-known American effort to broker a deal in Ukraine, then in political
turmoil.

They were not the only ones on whom the Russians used the steal-and-leak
strategy. The Open Society Foundation, run by George Soros, was a major target,
and when its documents were released, some turned out to have been altered to
make it appear as if the foundation was financing Russian opposition members.

Last year, the attacks became more aggressive. Russia hacked a major French
television station, frying critical hardware. Around Christmas, it attacked part
of the power grid in Ukraine, dropping a portion of the country into darkness,
killing backup generators and taking control of generators. In retrospect, it
was a warning shot.

The attacks ''were not fully integrated military operations,'' Mr. Sulmeyer
said. But they showed an increasing boldness.

Cozy Bear and Fancy Bear

The day before the White House Correspondents' Association dinner in April, Ms.
Dacey, the D.N.C.'s chief executive, was preparing for a night of parties when
she got an urgent phone call.

With the new monitoring system in place, Mr. Tamene had examined administrative
logs of the D.N.C.'s computer system and found something very suspicious: An
unauthorized person, with administrator-level security status, had gained access
to the D.N.C.'s computers.

''Not sure it is related to what the F.B.I. has been noticing,'' said one
internal D.N.C. email sent on April 29. ''The D.N.C. may have been hacked in a
serious way this week, with password theft, etc.''

No one knew just how bad the breach was -- but it was clear that a lot more than
a single filing cabinet worth of materials might have been taken. A secret
committee was immediately created, including Ms. Dacey, Ms. Wasserman Schultz,
Mr. Brown and Michael Sussmann, a former cybercrimes prosecutor at the
Department of Justice who now works at Perkins Coie, the Washington law firm
that handles D.N.C. political matters.

''Three most important questions,'' Mr. Sussmann wrote to his clients the night
the break-in was confirmed. ''1) What data was accessed? 2) How was it done? 3)
How do we stop it?''

Mr. Sussmann instructed his clients not to use D.N.C. email because they had
just one opportunity to lock the hackers out -- an effort that could be foiled
if the hackers knew that the D.N.C. was on to them.

''You only get one chance to raise the drawbridge,'' Mr. Sussmann said. ''If the
adversaries know you are aware of their presence, they will take steps to burrow
in, or erase the logs that show they were present.''

The D.N.C. immediately hired CrowdStrike, a cybersecurity firm, to scan its
computers, identify the intruders and build a new computer and telephone system
from scratch. Within a day, CrowdStrike confirmed that the intrusion had
originated in Russia, Mr. Sussmann said.

The work that such companies do is a computer version of old-fashioned crime
scene investigation, with fingerprints, bullet casings and DNA swabs replaced by
an electronic trail that can be just as incriminating. And just as police
detectives learn to identify the telltale methods of a veteran burglar, so
CrowdStrike investigators recognized the distinctive handiwork of Cozy Bear and
Fancy Bear.

Those are CrowdStrike's nicknames for the two Russian hacking groups that the
firm found at work inside the D.N.C. network. Cozy Bear -- the group also known
as the Dukes or A.P.T. 29, for ''advanced persistent threat'' -- may or may not
be associated with the F.S.B., the main successor to the Soviet-era K.G.B., but
it is widely believed to be a Russian government operation. It made its first
appearance in 2014, said Dmitri Alperovitch, CrowdStrike's co-founder and chief
technology officer.

It was Cozy Bear, CrowdStrike concluded, that first penetrated the D.N.C. in the
summer of 2015, by sending spear-phishing emails to a long list of American
government agencies, Washington nonprofits and government contractors. Whenever
someone clicked on a phishing message, the Russians would enter the network,
''exfiltrate'' documents of interest and stockpile them for intelligence
purposes.

''Once they got into the D.N.C., they found the data valuable and decided to
continue the operation,'' said Mr. Alperovitch, who was born in Russia and moved
to the United States as a teenager.

Only in March 2016 did Fancy Bear show up -- first penetrating the computers of
the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, and then jumping to the D.N.C.,
investigators believe. Fancy Bear, sometimes called A.P.T. 28 and believed to be
directed by the G.R.U., Russia's military intelligence agency, is an older
outfit, tracked by Western investigators for nearly a decade. It was Fancy Bear
that got hold of Mr. Podesta's email.

Attribution, as the skill of identifying a cyberattacker is known, is more art
than science. It is often impossible to name an attacker with absolute
certainty. But over time, by accumulating a reference library of hacking
techniques and targets, it is possible to spot repeat offenders. Fancy Bear, for
instance, has gone after military and political targets in Ukraine and Georgia,
and at NATO installations.

That largely rules out cybercriminals and most countries, Mr. Alperovitch said.
''There's no plausible actor that has an interest in all those victims other
than Russia,'' he said. Another clue: The Russian hacking groups tended to be
active during working hours in the Moscow time zone.

To their astonishment, Mr. Alperovitch said, CrowdStrike experts found signs
that the two Russian hacking groups had not coordinated their attacks. Fancy
Bear, apparently not knowing that Cozy Bear had been rummaging in D.N.C. files
for months, took many of the same documents.

In the six weeks after CrowdStrike's arrival, in total secrecy, the computer
system at the D.N.C. was replaced. For a weekend, email and phones were shut
off; employees were told it was a system upgrade. All laptops were turned in and
the hard drives wiped clean, with the uninfected information on them imaged to
new drives.

Though D.N.C. officials had learned that the Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee had been infected, too, they did not notify their sister organization,
which was in the same building, because they were afraid that it would leak.

All of this work took place as the bitter contest for the Democratic nomination
continued to play out between Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Sanders, and it was already
causing a major distraction for Ms. Wasserman Schultz and the D.N.C.'s chief
executive.

''This was not a bump in the road -- bumps in the road happen all the time,''
she said in an interview. ''Two different Russian spy agencies had hacked into
our network and stolen our property. And we did not yet know what they had
taken. But we knew they had very broad access to our network. There was a
tremendous amount of uncertainty. And it was chilling.''

The D.N.C. executives and their lawyer had their first formal meeting with
senior F.B.I. officials in mid-June, nine months after the bureau's first call
to the tech-support contractor. Among the early requests at that meeting,
according to participants: that the federal government make a quick
''attribution'' formally blaming actors with ties to Russian government for the
attack to make clear that it was not routine hacking but foreign espionage.

''You have a presidential election underway here and you know that the Russians
have hacked into the D.N.C.,'' Mr. Sussmann said, recalling the message to the
F.B.I. ''We need to tell the American public that. And soon.''

The Media's Role

In mid-June, on Mr. Sussmann's advice, D.N.C. leaders decided to take a bold
step. Concerned that word of the hacking might leak, they decided to go public
in The Washington Post with the news that the committee had been attacked. That
way, they figured, they could get ahead of the story, win a little sympathy from
voters for being victimized by Russian hackers and refocus on the campaign.

But the very next day, a new, deeply unsettling shock awaited them. Someone
calling himself Guccifer 2.0 appeared on the web, claiming to be the D.N.C.
hacker -- and he posted a confidential committee document detailing Mr. Trump's
record and half a dozen other documents to prove his bona fides.

#Guccifer2 #DNC's servers hacked by a lone hacker. #Trump report
https://t.co/5fsKlkVouD pic.twitter.com/AMIRp5sf2e -- GUCCIFER 2.0 (@GUCCIFER_2)
June 20, 2016

''And it's just a tiny part of all docs I downloaded from the Democrats
networks,'' he wrote. Then something more ominous: ''The main part of the
papers, thousands of files and mails, I gave to WikiLeaks. They will publish
them soon.''

It was bad enough that Russian hackers had been spying inside the committee's
network for months. Now the public release of documents had turned a
conventional espionage operation into something far more menacing: political
sabotage, an unpredictable, uncontrollable menace for Democratic campaigns.

Guccifer 2.0 borrowed the moniker of an earlier hacker, a Romanian who called
himself Guccifer and was jailed for breaking into the personal computers of
former President George W. Bush, former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and
other notables. This new attacker seemed intent on showing that the D.N.C.'s
cyberexperts at CrowdStrike were wrong to blame Russia. Guccifer 2.0 called
himself a ''lone hacker'' and mocked CrowdStrike for calling the attackers
''sophisticated.''

But online investigators quickly undercut his story. On a whim, Lorenzo
Franceschi-Bicchierai, a writer for Motherboard, the tech and culture site of
Vice, tried to contact Guccifer 2.0 by direct message on Twitter.

''Surprisingly, he answered right away,'' Mr. Franceschi-Bicchierai said. But
whoever was on the other end seemed to be mocking him. ''I asked him why he did
it, and he said he wanted to expose the Illuminati. He called himself a Gucci
lover. And he said he was Romanian.''

That gave Mr. Franceschi-Bicchierai an idea. Using Google Translate, he sent the
purported hacker some questions in Romanian. The answers came back in Romanian.
But when he was offline, Mr. Franceschi-Bicchierai checked with a couple of
native speakers, who told him Guccifer 2.0 had apparently been using Google
Translate as well -- and was clearly not the Romanian he claimed to be.

Cyberresearchers found other clues pointing to Russia. Microsoft Word documents
posted by Guccifer 2.0 had been edited by someone calling himself, in Russian,
Felix Edmundovich -- an obvious nom de guerre honoring the founder of the Soviet
secret police, Felix Edmundovich Dzerzhinsky. Bad links in the texts were marked
by warnings in Russian, generated by what was clearly a Russian-language version
of Word.

When Mr. Franceschi-Bicchierai managed to engage Guccifer 2.0 over a period of
weeks, he found that his interlocutor's tone and manner changed. ''At first he
was careless and colloquial. Weeks later, he was curt and more calculating,'' he
said. ''It seemed like a group of people, and a very sloppy attempt to cover
up.''

Computer experts drew the same conclusion about DCLeaks.com, a site that sprang
up in June, claiming to be the work of ''hacktivists'' but posting more stolen
documents. It, too, seemed to be a clumsy front for the same Russians who had
stolen the documents. Notably, the website was registered in April, suggesting
that the Russian hacking team planned well in advance to make public what it
stole.

In addition to what Guccifer 2.0 published on his site, he provided material
directly on request to some bloggers and publications. The steady flow of
Guccifer 2.0 documents constantly undercut Democratic messaging efforts. On July
6, 12 days before the Republican National Convention began in Cleveland,
Guccifer released the D.N.C.'s battle plan and budget for countering it. For
Republican operatives, it was insider gold.

Then WikiLeaks, a far more established outlet, began to publish the hacked
material -- just as Guccifer 2.0 had promised. On July 22, three days before the
start of the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia, WikiLeaks dumped
out 44,053 D.N.C. emails with 17,761 attachments. Some of the messages made
clear that some D.N.C. officials favored Mrs. Clinton over her progressive
challenger, Mr. Sanders.

That was no shock; Mr. Sanders, after all, had been an independent socialist,
not a Democrat, during his long career in Congress, while Mrs. Clinton had been
one of the party's stars for decades. But the emails, some of them crude or
insulting, infuriated Sanders delegates as they arrived in Philadelphia. Ms.
Wasserman Schultz resigned under pressure on the eve of the convention where she
had planned to preside.

Mr. Trump, by now the Republican nominee, expressed delight at the continuing
jolts to his opponent, and he began to use Twitter and his stump speeches to
highlight the WikiLeaks releases. On July 25, he sent out a lighthearted tweet:
''The new joke in town,'' he wrote, ''is that Russia leaked the disastrous
D.N.C. e-mails, which should never have been written (stupid), because Putin
likes me.''

But WikiLeaks was far from finished. On Oct. 7, a month before the election, the
site began the serial publication of thousands of private emails to and from Mr.
Podesta, Mrs. Clinton's campaign manager.

The same day, the United States formally accused the Russian government of being
behind the hackings, in a joint statement by the director of national
intelligence and the Department of Homeland Security, and Mr. Trump suffered his
worst blow to date, with the release of a recording in which he bragged about
sexually assaulting women.

The Podesta emails were nowhere near as sensational as the Trump video. But,
released by WikiLeaks day after day over the last month of the campaign, they
provided material for countless news reports. They disclosed the contents of
Mrs. Clinton's speeches to large banks, which she had refused to release. They
exposed tensions inside the campaign, including disagreements over donations to
the Clinton Foundation that staff members thought might look bad for the
candidate and Ms. Tanden's complaint that Mrs. Clinton's instincts were
''suboptimal.''

''I was just mortified,'' Ms. Tanden said in an interview. Her emails were
released on the eve of one of the presidential debates, she recalled. ''I put my
hands over my head and said, 'I can't believe this is happening to me.''' Though
she had regularly appeared on television to support Mrs. Clinton, she canceled
her appearances because all the questions were about what she had said in the
emails.

Ms. Tanden, like other Democrats whose messages became public, said it was
obvious to her that WikiLeaks was trying its best to damage the Clinton
campaign. ''If you care about transparency, you put all the emails out at
once,'' she said. ''But they wanted to hurt her. So they put them out 1,800 to
3,000 a day.''

The Trump campaign knew in advance about WikiLeaks' plans. Days before the
Podesta email release began, Roger Stone, a Republican operative working with
the Trump campaign, sent out an excited tweet about what was coming.

Wednesday@HillaryClinton is done. #Wikileaks. -- Roger Stone (@RogerJStoneJr)
October 2, 2016

But in an interview, Mr. Stone said he had no role in the leaks; he had just
heard from an American with ties to WikiLeaks that damning emails were coming.

Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder and editor, has resisted the conclusion
that his site became a pass-through for Russian hackers working for Mr. Putin's
government or that he was deliberately trying to undermine Mrs. Clinton's
candidacy. But the evidence on both counts appears compelling.

In a series of email exchanges, Mr. Assange refused to say anything about
WikiLeaks' source for the hacked material. He denied that he had made his animus
toward Mrs. Clinton clear in public statements (''False. But what is this?
Junior high?'') or that the site had timed the releases for maximum negative
effect on her campaign. ''WikiLeaks makes its decisions based on newsworthiness,
including for its recent epic scoops,'' he wrote.

Mr. Assange disputed the conclusion of the Oct. 7 statement from the
intelligence agencies that the leaks were ''intended to interfere with the U.S.
election process.''

''This is false,'' he wrote. ''As the disclosing party we know that this was not
the intent. Publishers publishing newsworthy information during an election is
part of a free election.''

But asked whether he believed the leaks were one reason for Mr. Trump's
election, Mr. Assange seemed happy to take credit. ''Americans extensively
engaged with our publications,'' he wrote. ''According to Facebook statistics
WikiLeaks was the most referenced political topic during October.''

Though Mr. Assange did not say so, WikiLeaks' best defense may be the conduct of
the mainstream American media. Every major publication, including The Times,
published multiple stories citing the D.N.C. and Podesta emails posted by
WikiLeaks, becoming a de facto instrument of Russian intelligence.

Mr. Putin, a student of martial arts, had turned two institutions at the core of
American democracy -- political campaigns and independent media -- to his own
ends. The media's appetite for the hacked material, and its focus on the gossipy
content instead of the Russian source, disturbed some of those whose personal
emails were being reposted across the web.

''What was really surprising to me?'' Ms. Tanden said. ''I could not believe
that reporters were covering it.''

Devising a Government Response

Inside the White House, as Mr. Obama's advisers debated their response, their
conversation turned to North Korea.

In late 2014, hackers working for Kim Jong-un, the North's young and
unpredictable leader, had carried out a well-planned attack on Sony Pictures
Entertainment intended to stop the Christmastime release of a comedy about a
C.I.A. plot to kill Mr. Kim.

In that case, embarrassing emails had also been released. But the real damage
was done to Sony's own systems: More than 70 percent of its computers melted
down when a particularly virulent form of malware was released. Within weeks,
intelligence agencies traced the attack back to the North and its leadership.
Mr. Obama called North Korea out in public, and issued some not-very-effective
sanctions. The Chinese even cooperated, briefly cutting off the North's internet
connections.

As the first Situation Room meetings on the Russian hacking began in July, ''it
was clear that Russia was going to be a much more complicated case,'' said one
participant. The Russians clearly had a more sophisticated understanding of
American politics, and they were masters of ''kompromat,'' their term for
compromising information.

But a formal ''attribution report'' still had not been forwarded to the
president.

''It took forever,'' one senior administration official said, complaining about
the pace at which the intelligence assessments moved through the system.

In August a group that called itself the ''Shadow Brokers'' published a set of
software tools that looked like what the N.S.A. uses to break into foreign
computer networks and install ''implants,'' malware that can be used for
surveillance or attack. The code came from the Tailored Access Operations unit
of the N.S.A., a secretive group that mastered the arts of surveillance and
cyberwar.

The assumption -- still unproved -- was that the code was put out in the open by
the Russians as a warning: Retaliate for the D.N.C., and there are a lot more
secrets, from the hackings of the State Department, the White House and the
Pentagon, that might be spilled as well. One senior official compared it to the
scene in ''The Godfather'' where the head of a favorite horse is left in a bed,
as a warning.

The N.S.A. said nothing. But by late August, Admiral Rogers, its director, was
pressing for a more muscular response to the Russians. In his role as director
of the Pentagon's Cyber Command, he proposed a series of potential
counter-cyberstrikes.

While officials will not discuss them in detail, the possible counterstrikes
reportedly included operations that would turn the tables on Mr. Putin, exposing
his financial links to Russia's oligarchs, and punching holes in the Russian
internet to allow dissidents to get their message out. Pentagon officials judged
the measures too unsubtle and ordered up their own set of options.

But in the end, none of those were formally presented to the president.

In a series of ''deputies meetings'' run by Avril Haines, the deputy national
security adviser and a former deputy director of the C.I.A., several officials
warned that an overreaction by the administration would play into Mr. Putin's
hands.

''If we went to Defcon 4,'' one frequent participant in Ms. Haines's meetings
said, using a phrase from the Cold War days of warnings of war, ''we would be
saying to the public that we didn't have confidence in the integrity of our
voting system.''

Even something seemingly straightforward -- using the president's executive
powers, bolstered after the Sony incident, to place economic and travel
sanctions on cyberattackers -- seemed too risky.

''No one was all that eager to impose costs before Election Day,'' said another
participant in the classified meeting. ''Any retaliatory measures were seen
through the prism of what would happen on Election Day.''

Instead, when Mr. Obama's national security team reconvened after summer
vacation, the focus turned to a crash effort to secure the nation's voting
machines and voter-registration rolls from hacking. The scenario they discussed
most frequently -- one that turned out not to be an issue -- was a narrow vote
in favor of Mrs. Clinton, followed by a declaration by Mr. Trump that the vote
was ''rigged'' and more leaks intended to undercut her legitimacy.

Donna Brazile, the interim chairwoman of the D.N.C., became increasingly
frustrated as the clock continued to run down on the presidential election --
and still there was no broad public condemnation by the White House, or
Republican Party leaders, of the attack as an act of foreign espionage.

Ms. Brazile even reached out to Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican
National Committee, urging him twice in private conversations and in a letter to
join her in condemning the attacks -- an offer he declined to take up.

''We just kept hearing the government would respond, the government would
respond,'' she said. ''Once upon a time, if a foreign government interfered with
our election we would respond as a nation, not as a political party.''

But Mr. Obama did decide that he would deliver a warning to Mr. Putin in person
at a Group of 20 summit meeting in Hangzhou, China, the last time they would be
in the same place while Mr. Obama was still in office. When the two men met for
a tense pull-aside, Mr. Obama explicitly warned Mr. Putin of a strong American
response if there was continued effort to influence the election or manipulate
the vote, according to White House officials who were not present for the
one-on-one meeting.

Later that day, Mr. Obama made a rare reference to America's own offensive
cybercapacity, which he has almost never talked about. ''Frankly, both
offensively and defensively, we have more capacity,'' he told reporters.

But when it came time to make a public assertion of Russia's role in early
October, it was made in a written statement from the director of national
intelligence and the secretary of homeland security. It was far less dramatic
than the president's appearance in the press room two years before to directly
accuse the North Koreans of attacking Sony.

The reference in the statement to hackings on ''political organizations,''
officials now say, encompassed a hacking on data stored by the Republicans as
well. Two senior officials say the forensic evidence was accompanied by ''human
and technical'' sources in Russia, which appears to mean that the United States'
implants or taps in Russian computer and phone networks helped confirm the
country's role.

But that may not be known for decades, until the secrets are declassified.

A week later Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. was sent out to transmit a
public warning to Mr. Putin: The United States will retaliate ''at the time of
our choosing. And under the circumstances that have the greatest impact.''

Later, after Mr. Biden said he was not concerned that Russia could
''fundamentally alter the election,'' he was asked whether the American public
would know if the message to Mr. Putin had been sent.

''Hope not,'' Mr. Biden responded.

Some of his former colleagues think that was the wrong answer. An American
counterstrike, said Michael Morell, the former deputy director of the C.I.A.
under Mr. Obama, has ''got to be overt. It needs to be seen.''

A covert response would significantly limit the deterrence effect, he added.
''If you can't see it, it's not going to deter the Chinese and North Koreans and
Iranians and others.''

The Obama administration says it still has more than 30 days to do exactly that.

The Next Target

As the year draws to a close, it now seems possible that there will be multiple
investigations of the Russian hacking -- the intelligence review Mr. Obama has
ordered completed by Jan. 20, the day he leaves office, and one or more
congressional inquiries. They will wrestle with, among other things, Mr. Putin's
motive.

Did he seek to mar the brand of American democracy, to forestall anti-Russian
activism for both Russians and their neighbors? Or to weaken the next American
president, since presumably Mr. Putin had no reason to doubt American forecasts
that Mrs. Clinton would win easily? Or was it, as the C.I.A. concluded last
month, a deliberate attempt to elect Mr. Trump?

In fact, the Russian hack-and-dox scheme accomplished all three goals.

What seems clear is that Russian hacking, given its success, is not going to
stop. Two weeks ago, the German intelligence chief, Bruno Kahl, warned that
Russia might target elections in Germany next year. ''The perpetrators have an
interest to delegitimize the democratic process as such,'' Mr. Kahl said. Now,
he added, ''Europe is in the focus of these attempts of disturbance, and Germany
to a particularly great extent.''

But Russia has by no means forgotten its American target. On the day after the
presidential election, the cybersecurity company Volexity reported five new
waves of phishing emails, evidently from Cozy Bear, aimed at think tanks and
nonprofits in the United States.

One of them purported to be from Harvard University, attaching a fake paper. Its
title: ''Why American Elections Are Flawed.''

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/13/us/politics/russia-hack-election-dnc.html

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A filing cabinet broken into during the 1972 Watergate burglary
and a computer server breached by Russian hackers are displayed at the
Democratic National Committee's headquarters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN T. GELLERSON
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Top left, supporters of President-elect Donald J. Trump at a ''thank you'' rally
last week in Des Moines. Above, the headquarters of the Russian F.S.B., the main
successor to the Sovietera K.G.B., in Moscow. Left, President Vladimir V. Putin
of Russia. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
PAVEL GOLOVKIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
ALEXEI NIKOLSKY) (A14-A15)
John D. Podesta, Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG
MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15)
Charles Delavan, a Clinton campaign aide, incorrectly legitimized a phishing
email sent to Mr. Podesta's personal account. (A16)
President Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. outside the White House
after delivering remarks about the election results last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
AL DRAGO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16-A17)
 Hillary Clinton supporters at the Javits Center in New York on election night.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 14, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quotation of the Day

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 56 words


''This was not something that was done casually, this was not something that was
done by chance, this was not a target that was selected purely arbitrarily.''

ADM. MICHAEL S. ROGERS, the director of the National Security Agency and
commander of United States Cyber Command, on Russian efforts to disrupt the
American presidential election.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/13/todayspaper/quotation-of-the-day.html

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 15, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

American Universities in a Gulf of Hypocrisy;
On Campus

BYLINE: KRISTINA BOGOS

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1093 words



HIGHLIGHT: By soft-pedaling criticism of their Qatari and Emirati paymasters,
U.S. schools are compromising academic freedom.


WASHINGTON - Cyberespionage may be the new normal, but you wouldn't think that
an American graduate student would be a target for state-level spyware and
surveillance. Apparently, though, I am.

On May 19, I awoke to an email from an unfamiliar sender, "Wahedk87," with the
subject line "Planned visit to Qatar." The email warned me that "the U.A.E.
authorities have informed their counterparts in Qatar regarding your planned
visit" and accused me of conducting a "dirty mission" to "gather some
confidential information."

In college at New York University, in 2013, I had spent a semester of study
abroad in the United Arab Emirates; I am now a master's candidate at Georgetown
University's School of Foreign Service, and at the time of Wahedk87's email I
was a week away from traveling to Qatar. My "dirty mission" was my thesis
research, and the "confidential information" I sought was about the labor
conditions of migrant workers in the capital, Doha.

Working with a cybersecurity expert, I learned that my personal email had been
hacked twice in April. In advance of the hack, the attacker sent me bait emails
including a fake BBC News alert about migrant labor abuses in Qatar. Once the
hacker had access, he synced my personal email to an external account. This
granted access to every message I had sent and received since my account's
inception four years ago.

When I landed in Qatar in June, Wahedk87's threat became clear. I was denied
entry and detained at the airport in Doha. Qatari immigration officers informed
me that my name appeared on a "blacklist" maintained by member states of the
Gulf Cooperation Council because I had "made trouble" in the U.A.E. Later,
Emirati officials told the State Department that they had placed me on the
blacklist for unspecified "security-related reasons."

From this, I suspect that it was the U.A.E., an ally of the American government,
that hacked my email and shared its intelligence about my research plans with
the Qatari authorities. In 2013, while studying at New York University Abu
Dhabi, I condemned the treatment of migrant workers who were building my
university's new campus on Saadiyat Island, an estimated $1 billion enterprise.
In 2014, a New York Times investigation documented the deplorable treatment of
those workers, including the unlawful deportation of hundreds for striking while
working on the N.Y.U. project.

I was eventually allowed into Qatar on a tourist visa, but I remained under
surveillance, at times followed by officers I was told were from state security.
In August, the Qatari government rejected my application for a student visa to
study at Georgetown Qatar this fall.

Georgetown's response to my ban was troubling, stating that "access to study and
residence visas varies across individuals and over time." The administration
stressed that they take academic freedom very seriously, even as the university
is expanding "to work in increasingly difficult places."

N.Y.U., my alma mater, had made similar statements after the Emirati authorities
denied access to one of its professors, Andrew Ross, in March 2015. He had also
been traveling to the U.A.E. to conduct research into migrant worker abuses.
N.Y.U. said that it supported the "free movement of people and ideas," but that
"it is the government that controls visa and immigration policy, and not the
university." The administration also offered the somewhat self-serving argument
that N.Y.U.'s "presence in these nations and societies brings more freedom of
ideas, not less."

These responses seem uninformed or disingenuous. Both Qatar and the U.A.E. use
sophisticated internet attack tools to execute what Human Rights Watch recently
called a "systematic and well-funded assault on free speech to subvert the
potentially transformative impact of social media and internet technology."
Generally, it is the citizens of these gulf countries, not foreign visitors, who
face the worst of such repression.

An Emirati professor named Nasser bin Ghaith was detained with no access to his
family or a lawyer for nine months, and claimed in a court hearing to have been
tortured, for criticizing the government on Twitter. He has been charged under
the 2012 Cybercrimes Law that prescribes up to 15 years in prison for people who
post content that could "damage the reputation" of the U.A.E. leadership.

In May, Citizen Lab, a watchdog group based at the University of Toronto,
uncovered a five-year campaign of spyware attacks against Emirati journalists,
activists and dissidents, including the human rights activist Ahmed Mansoor, who
has frequently been targeted by hackers since calling for reform in 2011. In
August, Mr. Mansoor became known as the "million-dollar dissident" after a
costly but failed effort by the U.A.E. government to break into his iPhone.

It's clear that N.Y.U. and Georgetown do not want to bite the hand that feeds
them, but it may not end there.

According to reports, a Maryland-based company called CyberPoint International
began providing advice on cybersecurity to the United Arab Emirates government
in 2012. CyberPoint's contract reportedly ended last year, but the company's
former chief strategy officer, Paul Kurtz, who worked in the administrations of
Bill Clinton and George W. Bush, is still chairman of the advisory board of
N.Y.U. Abu Dhabi's cybersecurity center. The center also partners with
"government agencies" in an effort to "improve cybersecurity in the U.A.E." and
"more generally in the G.C.C. region."

There is no evidence that CyberPoint was involved in spying, but it is worrying
that N.Y.U. is involved in this field with the Emirates, since the government
has used its cyber capabilities against its own citizens, and possibly foreign
researchers, too.

The gulf states are big investors. Announcing the creation of N.Y.U. Abu Dhabi
in 2007, the university's former president, John Sexton, explained, "The costs
of planning, designing and building the campus and all expenses related to the
operation of N.Y.U. Abu Dhabi will be assumed by the government of Abu Dhabi."

The failure of Georgetown and N.Y.U. to call out the suppression of critical
speech suggests the complicity that gulf money buys. The transactional
relationships that underpin these American universities' campuses in U.A.E. and
Qatar subvert the very academic freedom they're supposed to promote.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Kristina Bogos is a writer and researcher focusing on migration and human rights
in the Middle East.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 15, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump's Alt-Reality;
Contributing Op-Ed Writer

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2004 words



HIGHLIGHT: There is method to his madness. The president-elect redefines the
past, present and future to suit his agenda.


Since Election Day there has been an abundance of liberal hyperbole about the
dangers of a Trump administration.

Michael Kinsley wrote in the Washington Post that "Donald Trump is Actually a
Fascist." Jonathan Chait warned in New York magazine of "the step-by-step
acceptance of the unthinkable as normal." Masha Gessen, a Russian journalist
known for her opposition to Vladimir Putin who is also a colleague, primed
Americans on what to expect from a Trump administration in an essay in The New
York Review of Books: "Autocracy: Rules for Survival."

Some on the right dismiss these arguments as over the top - "articles about the
Left's freakout over Donald Trump are getting a little stale," Jonah Goldberg
wrote on National Review's website - and it's possible that Kinsley, Chait and
Gessen will be proven wrong.

There is, however, a good chance that they are dead right.

Trump proved throughout his campaign and in the month since he won that he would
not only lie repeatedly, but that he could get away with it. As Glenn Kessler,
who writes the Fact Checker column for The Washington Post, pointed out on Nov.
4:

Donald Trump has amassed such a collection of Four-Pinocchio ratings - 59 in all
- that by himself he's earned as many in this campaign as all other Republicans
(or Democrats) combined in the past three years.

Trump's 59 totally false "whoppers," in the Kessler rating system, compare to
seven awarded to Hillary Clinton.

Trump's success in winning the presidency despite a modern day record of lying
suggests that for the moment he has been empowered by a large segment of the
electorate to redefine the past, present and future to suit his agenda. He has
been unconstrained by facts.

We don't yet know if Trump will take full advantage of this free pass or how
much leeway Congress, the courts and the public will grant him. But once
established, this command over reality has an appeal that is difficult, if not
impossible, to let go. Trump has shown no signs of doing so. Indeed, he brings
to mind George Orwell's observation that totalitarianism demands

the continuous alteration of the past, and in the long run probably demands a
disbelief in the very existence of objective truth.

Trump, in a notorious tweet on Nov. 27, asserted that

In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular
vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally.

Appearing Dec. 11 onFox News Sunday, Trump, despite losing the popular vote by
2.84 million, continued to describe his win as "one of the great victories of
all time," arguing that Democrats "suffered one of the greatest defeats in the
history of politics in this country" and that "we had a massive landslide
victory."

Trump's adamant rejection of the C.I.A.'s finding that Russia intervened in the
election in order to help him has become the focus of partisan warfare putting
Trump in conflict not only with Democratic congressional adversaries, but with
Republican critics like Senators John McCain and Lindsey Graham.

On Dec. 9 the Washington Post published a story on the C.I.A.'s assessment that
American intelligence agencies had

identified individuals with connections to the Russian government who provided
WikiLeaks with thousands of hacked emails from the Democratic National Committee
and others, including Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman, according to U.S.
officials. Those officials described the individuals as actors known to the
intelligence community and part of a wider Russian operation to boost Trump and
hurt Clinton's chances.

The Trump transition team quickly attacked the credibility of the C.I.A. in a
prepared statement:

These are the same people that said Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass
destruction. The election ended a long time ago in one of the biggest Electoral
College victories in history. It's now time to move on and "Make America Great
Again."

The push back against Trump was swift. Michael V. Hayden, director of the
National Security Agency and later the C.I.A. under George W. Bush, told The
Times:

To have the president-elect of the United States simply reject the fact-based
narrative that the intelligence community puts together because it conflicts
with his a priori assumptions - wow.

The ongoing conflict over the intelligence agency's analysis of Russian
involvement has become the first major test of Trump's alt-reality vision.

John McCain, the Arizona Republican who chairs the Senate Armed Services
Committee, flatly contradicted Trump last Sunday during an appearance on Face
the Nation:

The facts are stubborn things. They did hack into this campaign.

On Dec. 12, Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, endorsed a formal
inquiry into the allegations. In doing so, McConnell set the stage for a
confrontation between the congressional and executive branches even before Trump
takes office.

There is method to Trump's madness. Despite the nine lives he has demonstrated,
he seems eager to avoid a damaging challenge to his legitimacy as the nation's
chief executive, intent on defining his election as "a massive landslide
victory" and "one of the great victories of all time."

Studies conducted before and during the election found that support for Trump
correlated with voters' desire for what they see as authoritative leadership.
Marc Hetherington, a political scientist at Vanderbilt, described such voters as
having what he calls a "fixed worldview," as opposed to those with a "fluid
worldview." Hetherington notes that those with a fixed view score high on tests
of authoritarianism and those with a more fluid view score low.

In an essay published in October in PS: Political Science and Politics,
"Authoritarian Voters and the Rise of Donald Trump," Matthew C. MacWilliams, a
teaching associate at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst, found that
"Trump's rise is in part the result of authoritarian voters' response to his
unvarnished, us-versus-them rhetoric" and that

Uniformity and order are authoritarian watch words. Authoritarians obey. They
seek order. They follow authoritarian leaders. They eschew diversity, fear "the
other," act aggressively toward others, and, once they have identified friend
from foe, hold tight to their decision.

Based on survey data collected in the course of this year's Republican
primaries, MacWilliams found a strong relationship between support for Trump and
voters' support for authoritarian values.

The power and depth of this kind of support has freed Trump from the normal
obligation to avoid making statements that are verifiably untrue. His loyalists
are strongly inclined to believe what he says, and to forgive falsehoods that
they see as harmless exaggerations.

"One thing that's been interesting this campaign season to watch is that people
that say facts are facts - they're not really facts," Scottie Nell Hughes, a
Trump supporter, said on The Diane Rehm Show on Nov. 30. Her remarks caused a
ruckus, but Hughes also laid bare Trump's basic method, which got lost in the
kerfuffle:

There's no such thing, unfortunately anymore, as facts. And so Mr. Trump's
tweets, among a certain crowd - a large part of the population - are truth. When
he says that millions of people illegally voted, he has some facts - among him
and his supporters - and people believe they have facts to back that up. Those
that do not like Mr. Trump, they say that those are lies and there's no facts to
back it up.

Or as Corey Lewandowski, Trump's former campaign manager and current adviser,
puts it:

This is the problem with the media. You guys took everything that Donald Trump
said so literally. The American people didn't.

This willingness to suspend disbelief "gives Trump not only license but
incentive to spin fantasy, because no one expects him to tell the truth," Rob
Stutzman, a Republican consultant who worked for Jeb Bush, told the Los Angeles
Times. "They believe they're getting lied to constantly, so if their hero tells
lies in order to strike back, they don't care."

Ownership of this phenomenon is not the exclusive property of the right.
Democrats, liberals and academics have made significant, if unknowing,
contributions to the credulity of Trump's supporters.

In a Nov. 15 essay "Straight Talk on Trade," Dani Rodrik, an economist at
Harvard, poses the question, "Are economists partly responsible for Donald
Trump's shocking victory in the US presidential election?"

Proponents of globalization, Rodrik argues, have in recent decades downplayed
the costs of trade on the "implicit premise" that

there are barbarians on only one side of the trade debate. Apparently, those who
complain about World Trade Organization rules or trade agreements are awful
protectionists, while those who support them are always on the side of the
angels.

The result is that many in the economics profession

have consistently minimized distributional concerns, even though it is now clear
that the distributional impact of, say, the North American Free Trade Agreement
or China's entry into the World Trade Organization were significant for the most
directly affected communities in the United States.

Eduardo Porter, a Times colleague, raised the same basic issue in a column
earlier this week, "Where Were Trump's Votes? Where the Jobs Weren't." Porter
wrote that

less-educated white voters had a solid economic rationale for voting against the
status quo - nearly all the gains from the economic recovery have passed them
by.

Since Nov. 7, 2007, according to Porter, Hispanics have gained nearly 5 million
jobs, African-Americans and Asian-Americans have each gained over 2 million
jobs, but whites have lost nearly 1 million jobs. Those job losses were heavily
concentrated in those Rust Belt and, relatively speaking, more rural states
where Trump racked up his Electoral College win.

The credibility of the Democratic Party generally among Trump voters is at an
all-time low, as Democratic candidates discovered on Nov. 8.

This Democratic vulnerability was explored in depth by Katherine Cramer, a
political scientist at the University of Wisconsin, in a book on voters in that
state, "The Politics of Resentment," which came out in March. In her study,
Cramer described the three elements of "rural consciousness":

First, a belief that rural areas are ignored by decision makers, including
policy makers, second, a perception that rural areas do not get their fair share
of resources, and third a sense that rural folks have fundamentally distinct
values and lifestyles, which are misunderstood and disrespected by city folks.

The result, she argues, is the creation of a rural identity "infused with a
sense of distributive injustice," much of it focused on liberal policies
directing tax dollars to urban racial minorities.

These rural voters, and others in the Trump coalition, are more than willing to
give Trump the benefit of the doubt. Their deep feeling that whatever else he
was, he was on their side permitted him to shrug off criticism as emanating from
malevolent political elites.

Trump's attempt to subvert truth is a major challenge to democratic governance.
In this context, it may be wise to listen to the predictions of Masha Gessen.
"Despite losing the popular vote, Trump has secured as much power as any
American leader in recent history," she writes in The New York Review of Books
essay I mentioned earlier. "He will want to maintain and increase it - his ideal
is the totalitarian-level popularity numbers of Vladimir Putin."

Having watched in frustration as Trump ran roughshod over the party
establishment and all of its candidates, Republicans are actually more likely
than Democrats to recognize the potential threat posed by the president-elect.
Because of this - in the strange pathways of politics - the hearings on alleged
Russian hacking will become not only an inquiry into cyber espionage, but also a
forum for Republican leaders to put Trump in his place and to set limits on his
presidency.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 15, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump's Denial About Russia;
Editorial

BYLINE: THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 647 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Trump's rejection of the United States' investigation into
Russian hacking of the 2016 election leaves him isolated.


No matter how divided our politics and our times, Americans can agree that our
status as a strong, democratic nation rests on the bedrock of free and fair
elections. That confidence is what was targeted when Russia, one of our oldest,
most determined foreign adversaries, invaded American computer networks and
released thousands of pages of documents to undermine the legitimacy of the 2016
election.

This news emerged last summer. Last month, the Central Intelligence Agency
shared a further conclusion, based on months of analysis, that the Russian
hacking was intended to favor Donald Trump.

"There shouldn't be any doubt in anybody's mind," Adm. Michael Rogers, the
director of the National Security Agency and commander of United States Cyber
Command, said recently. "This was not something that was done casually, this was
not something that was done by chance, this was not a target that was selected
purely arbitrarily," he said. "This was a conscious effort by a nation-state to
attempt to achieve a specific effect."

Extrapolating motive from evidence is always tricky. But after the C.I.A.
provided classified briefings for Congress and the White House, members of both
political parties were convinced.

But not President-elect Trump.

Mr. Trump's instant rejection of the C.I.A. findings as "ridiculous," based on
no review of its work, echoed Moscow's. "This tale of 'hacks' resembles a banal
brawl between American security officials over spheres of influence," Maria
Zakharova, the spokeswoman for the Russian Foreign Ministry, wrote on Facebook.
Mr. Trump said of American security officials, "They're fighting among
themselves."

On Nov. 10, two days after the election, Sergei Ryabkov, Russia's deputy foreign
minister, said "there were contacts" between Moscow and Mr. Trump's campaign. "I
cannot say that all of them, but quite a few have been staying in touch with
Russian representatives," Mr. Ryabkov said.

Paul Manafort, one of Mr. Trump's campaign managers, resigned after reports
described his political ties to Russia. Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, Mr. Trump's
national security adviser, sat with Mr. Putin at a gala for Russian state
television, where he has appeared as a commentator.

Mr. Trump's own business ties to Moscow date to the late 1980s. His son Donald
Trump Jr. told a realestate gathering in 2008 that "Russians make up a pretty
disproportionate cross-section of a lot of our assets," adding "we see a lot of
money pouring in from Russia."

Mr. Trump hasn't released tax returns or other records that could ease fears
that he has financial deals in Russia to protect. And he's refusing to divest
his business interests, so whatever ties there may be are likely to remain.

Kremlin meddling in the 2016 election warrants further investigation, with an
eye toward preventive or retaliatory measures. President Obama has asked the
nation's intelligence community to deliver a fuller report on its findings
before he leaves office on Jan. 20, and a bipartisan group of lawmakers is
pushing for a congressional investigation. The results of that inquiry should be
made public, and the intelligence community should tell Americans as much as it
can about the cyberattack and its goals.

Mr. Trump's reaction to the C.I.A.'s findings leaves him isolated, and
underscores his dangerous unfamiliarity with the role of intelligence in
maintaining national security. There could be no more "useful idiot," to use
Lenin's term of art, than an American president who doesn't know he's being
played by a wily foreign power. Or maybe it's as Mr. Trump says: He's "a smart
person," and avoids presidential intelligence briefings because they repeat what
he already knows. If so, what else does he know about Russia that the
intelligence agencies don't?

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 15, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Afraid to Politicize Intelligence, Obama Delayed Blaming Russia for Hack

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 597 words


WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration spent months deliberating whether to
blame Russia for a cyberattack on the Democratic National Committee, with action
delayed in part because President Obama did not want to be blamed for
politicizing intelligence, the White House said on Wednesday.

Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said that ''it would've been
inappropriate for White House figures -- including the president of the United
States -- to be rushing the intelligence community to expedite their analysis of
the situation.''

In particular, he described White House concerns that any statement by Mr. Obama
would be viewed as using intelligence to meddle in the election on behalf of the
president's preferred candidate, Hillary Clinton.

An F.B.I. agent initially tried in September 2015 to alert officials from the
Democratic National Committee that it was the target of a cyberattack by a group
of hackers with links to Russian intelligence. But the administration waited
until October 2016, more than a year later and after months of damaging leaks,
to confirm that intelligence agencies believed the hacks were the product of a
Russian intelligence operation.

An examination by The New York Times found that the response to the intrusions,
the first significant information-warfare campaign ever conducted by a foreign
power to disrupt a presidential campaign, was plagued by a series of missed
signals, slow responses and a continuing underestimation of the seriousness of
the cyberattack.

Part of the reason for the delay, Mr. Earnest said, was bureaucratic. ''First,
they had to confirm across 17 different government agencies that they had high
confidence that this is exactly what had transpired,'' Mr. Earnest said.

But the administration's delayed response also resulted because Donald J. Trump,
the Republican nominee, had been making repeated claims about how the election
was being rigged, and Mr. Obama did not want to do anything that would feed
those charges, Mr. Earnest said.

When the Obama administration first took office, it was deeply aware of
criticism leveled at the prior administration of President George W. Bush that
top officials had sought to shape or politicize intelligence conclusions on
whether President Saddam Hussein of Iraq had so-called weapons of mass
destruction. Mr. Obama has said that he sought from the first days of his
presidency to protect the intelligence process from any hint of political
interference.

So while Mr. Obama in December 2014 personally condemned North Korea's hack of
Sony Pictures, he was far more reluctant to do so when political operatives were
the target of a state-sponsored hack during a presidential campaign.

''Given that the president had endorsed a candidate in the presidential race, he
believed it was important for the intelligence community to make this
announcement,'' Mr. Earnest said.

The Obama administration has announced that its response to the Russian hack
will be proportional and may never be publicly disclosed. Critics say that to
discourage further cyberattacks, the administration should have responded
quickly and made its response public.

But Mr. Earnest cautioned that the United States would be particularly
vulnerable in an international cyber-exchange ''because we rely on 21st-century
communications technology for just about everything in a way that lots of other
societies and economies and countries don't.''

He said that much of the damage from the Russian hack resulted from decisions by
news organizations to publish emails they knew to be stolen.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/14/us/politics/obama-russia-hack-democrats.html

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 15, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mr. Trump's Denial About Russia

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 655 words


No matter how divided our politics and our times, Americans can agree that our
status as a strong, democratic nation rests on the bedrock of free and fair
elections. That confidence is what was targeted when Russia, one of our oldest,
most determined foreign adversaries, invaded American computer networks and
released thousands of pages of documents to undermine the legitimacy of the 2016
election.

This news emerged last summer. Last month, the Central Intelligence Agency
shared a further conclusion, based on months of analysis, that the Russian
hacking was intended to favor Donald Trump.

''There shouldn't be any doubt in anybody's mind,'' Adm. Michael Rogers, the
director of the National Security Agency and commander of United States Cyber
Command, said recently. ''This was not something that was done casually, this
was not something that was done by chance, this was not a target that was
selected purely arbitrarily,'' he said. ''This was a conscious effort by a
nation-state to attempt to achieve a specific effect.''

Extrapolating motive from evidence is always tricky. But after the C.I.A.
provided classified briefings for Congress and the White House, members of both
political parties were convinced.

But not President-elect Trump.

Mr. Trump's instant rejection of the C.I.A. findings as ''ridiculous,'' based on
no review of its work, echoed Moscow's. ''This tale of 'hacks' resembles a banal
brawl between American security officials over spheres of influence,'' Maria
Zakharova, the spokeswoman for the Russian Foreign Ministry, wrote on Facebook.
Mr. Trump said of American security officials, ''They're fighting among
themselves.''

On Nov. 10, two days after the election, Sergei Ryabkov, Russia's deputy foreign
minister, said ''there were contacts'' between Moscow and Mr. Trump's campaign.
''I cannot say that all of them, but quite a few have been staying in touch with
Russian representatives,'' Mr. Ryabkov said.

Paul Manafort, one of Mr. Trump's campaign managers, resigned after reports
described his political ties to Russia. Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, Mr. Trump's
national security adviser, sat with Mr. Putin at a gala for Russian state
television, where he has appeared as a commentator.

Mr. Trump's own business ties to Moscow date to the late 1980s. His son Donald
Trump Jr. told a real estate gathering in 2008 that ''Russians make up a pretty
disproportionate cross-section of a lot of our assets,'' adding ''we see a lot
of money pouring in from Russia.''

Mr. Trump hasn't released tax returns or other records that could ease fears
that he has financial deals in Russia to protect. And he's refusing to divest
his business interests, so whatever ties there may be are likely to remain.

Kremlin meddling in the 2016 election warrants further investigation, with an
eye toward preventive or retaliatory measures. President Obama has asked the
nation's intelligence community to deliver a fuller report on its findings
before he leaves office on Jan. 20, and a bipartisan group of lawmakers is
pushing for a congressional investigation. The results of that inquiry should be
made public, and the intelligence community should tell Americans as much as it
can about the cyberattack and its goals.

Mr. Trump's reaction to the C.I.A.'s findings leaves him isolated, and
underscores his dangerous unfamiliarity with the role of intelligence in
maintaining national security. There could be no more ''useful idiot,'' to use
Lenin's term of art, than an American president who doesn't know he's being
played by a wily foreign power. Or maybe it's as Mr. Trump says: He's ''a smart
person,'' and avoids presidential intelligence briefings because they repeat
what he already knows. If so, what else does he know about Russia that the
intelligence agencies don't?

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/15/opinion/donald-trumps-denial-about-russia.html

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 17, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

Obama Confronts Complexity of Using a Mighty Cyberarsenal Against Russia

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1761 words



HIGHLIGHT: The president has vowed to "send a clear message" to Russia over its
hacking of the U.S. election but has few ideal options.


WASHINGTON -- Over the past four months, American intelligence agencies and
aides to President Obama assembled a menu of options to respond to Russia's
hacking during the election, ranging from the obvious -- exposing President
Vladimir V. Putin's financial ties to oligarchs -- to the innovative, including
manipulating the computer code that Russia uses in designing its cyberweapons.

But while Mr. Obama vowed on Friday to "send a clear message to Russia" as both
a punishment and a deterrent, some of the options were rejected as ineffective,
others as too risky. If the choices had been better, one of the aides involved
in the debate noted recently, the president would have acted by now.

In his last weeks in office, that Situation Room debate has confronted a
naturally cautious president with a complex calculus that President-elect Donald
J. Trump will soon inherit: how to use the world's most powerful cyberarsenal at
a moment when the United States, as the election showed, remains highly
vulnerable.

"Is there something we can do to them, that they would see, they would realize
98 percent that we did it, but that wouldn't be so obvious that they would then
have to respond for their own honor?" David H. Petraeus, the former director of
the Central Intelligence Agency under Mr. Obama, asked on Friday, at a
conference here sponsored by Harvard's Belfer Center for Science and
International Affairs. "The question is how subtle do you want it, how damaging
do you want it, how do you try to end it here rather than just ratchet it up?"

The idea of exposing Mr. Putin's links to oligarchs was set aside after some
aides argued that it would not come as a shock to Russians. Still, there are
proposals to cut off leaders in Mr. Putin's inner circle from their hidden bank
accounts in Europe and Asia. There is an option to use sanctions under a
year-old executive order to ban international travel for senior officials in the
G.R.U., the Russian military intelligence unit that American spy agencies say
stole emails from the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton's
campaign chairman, then doled them out to WikiLeaks, betting that media outlets
eager for insider details would amplify them, doing the Kremlin's work for it.

The National Security Agency and its military cousin, the United States Cyber
Command, which is responsible for computer-network warfare, have worked up other
ideas, officials said, though some have been rejected by the Pentagon.

Those plans could deploy the world-class arsenal of cyberweapons assembled at a
cost of billions of dollars during Mr. Obama's tenure to expose or neutralize
some of the hacking tools favored by Russia's spies -- the digital equivalent of
a pre-emptive strike. But the selection of targets by Americans and the accuracy
of that retaliation could also expose software "implants" that the United States
has patiently inserted and nurtured in Russian networks, in case of future
cyberconflicts.

And the revelation in August about some of the N.S.A.'s own tools for breaking
into foreign computer networks has raised the possibility that the Russians are
already inside American networks and are sending a warning that they can respond
in kind.

All of this has led Mr. Obama to ask how the Russians might escalate the
confrontation, and whether the United States in the end may have more to lose
than Russia.

"He doesn't have great options," said Michael D. McFaul, formerly one of Mr.
Obama's top national security aides and then his ambassador to Moscow.

Mr. Obama is the president who, in his first year in office, reached for some of
the most sophisticated cyberweapons on earth to blow up parts of Iran's nuclear
facilities. Now, at the end of his presidency, he has run headlong into a
different challenge in the cyberwarfare arena.

The president has reached two conclusions, senior officials report: The only
thing worse than not using a weapon is using it ineffectively. And if he does
choose to retaliate, he has insisted on maintaining what is known as "escalation
dominance," the ability to ensure you can end a conflict on your terms.

Mr. Obama hinted as much at his news conference on Friday, as he was set to
leave for his annual Hawaii vacation, his last as president.

"Our goal continues to be to send a clear message to Russia or others not to do
this to us because we can do stuff to you," he said. "But it is also important
to us to do that in a thoughtful, methodical way. Some of it, we will do
publicly. Some of it we will do in a way that they know, but not everybody
will."

He rejected calls for a big, symbolic show of power, dismissing the idea that if
the United States "thumped our chests about a bunch of stuff, that somehow that
would potentially spook the Russians." The goal, Mr. Obama said, was to come up
with a response "that increases costs for them for behavior like this in the
future but does not create problems for us."

There is not much new in tampering with elections, except for the technical
sophistication of the tools. For all the outrage voiced by Democrats and
Republicans in the past week about the Russian action -- with the notable
exception of Mr. Trump, who has dismissed the intelligence findings as
politically motivated -- it is worth remembering that trying to manipulate
elections is a well-honed American art form.

The C.I.A. got its start trying to influence the outcome of Italy's elections in
1948, as the author Tim Weiner documented in his book "Legacy of Ashes," in an
effort to keep Communists from taking power. Five years later, the C.I.A.
engineered a coup against Mohammad Mossadegh, Iran's democratically elected
leader, when the United States and Britain installed the Shah.

"The military coup that overthrew Mosaddeq and his National Front cabinet was
carried out under CIA direction as an act of U.S. foreign policy, conceived and
approved at the highest levels of government," the agency concluded in one of
its own reports, declassified around the 60th anniversary of those events, which
were engineered in large part by Kermit Roosevelt Jr., a grandson of President
Theodore Roosevelt.

There were similar interferences over the years in Guatemala, Chile and even in
Japan, hailed as a model of post-World War II democracy, where the Liberal
Democratic Party owes its early grip on power in the 1950s and 1960s to millions
of dollars in covert C.I.A. support.

The only differences this year are that the effort was directed at the United
States, and that it was cyberenabled, giving Moscow a tool to amplify its
efforts through the echo chamber of social media and news organizations that
quoted from the leaked emails.

"What has changed is that this was using cyberspace for advancing a political
objective," said Adm. James A. Winnefeld Jr., who served as vice chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff until he retired last year. Cybertechniques, he said, have
amplified an old form of "political warfare, and the issue is not whether it
successfully influenced the election -- but the fact that they did it."

Over the past few months, an administration that prided itself on its work on
cyberoffense and cyberdefense has learned a hard lesson: When it came to the
2016 election, an economically failing Russia, dismissed by Mr. Obama on Friday
for its inability to grow or to innovate, exploited giant holes in the American
system.

Mr. Obama conceded that he first heard about the attack on the Democratic
National Committee "early last summer," or nine months after the F.B.I. first
alerted low-level D.N.C. officials about what had happened. That now appears to
be critical lost time.

If Mr. Obama had confronted the Russians immediately, in public or in the kind
of private warning he said he delivered to Mr. Putin only three months ago
during a meeting in China, the United States might have derailed the hacking
campaign before it harvested and revealed thousands of emails.

But the election hacking also raised questions about whether the American
fixation on a "cyber Pearl Harbor" -- a devastating attack on the power grid,
cellphone network, financial system or computer-controlled gas pipelines --
overlooked a more obvious vulnerability.

As a detailed account in The New York Times last Wednesday revealed, the D.N.C.
had virtually no protections for its electronic systems, and Mrs. Clinton's
campaign chairman, John D. Podesta, had failed to sign up for the "two-factor
authentication" on his Gmail account. Doing so probably would have foiled what
Mr. Obama called a fairly primitive attack.

Now the question facing Mr. Obama is how public a retaliation to execute.

The president laid out a case on Friday for acting with subtlety, so as not to
start a tit-for-tat conflict.

But as Joseph Nye, a strategist on so-called soft power, noted on Friday, "The
reason to make some of this public is not just to deter the Russians, it is to
deter others as well," in future elections.

It is possible, said Mr. McFaul, the former ambassador to Russia, that Mr.
Obama's most lasting contribution may be to get the details of the Russian hack
declassified and to publish a report he has instructed the intelligence
community to assemble before he leaves office.

"Given that Obama only has a few more weeks in office, I think he needs to focus
his remaining time on attribution -- that is declassification of intelligence so
that there is no ambiguity about the Russian actions," Mr. McFaul said. That "is
completely within his powers," he added, and would spur more congressional
investigations regardless of the stance taken by Mr. Trump on the hack.

Mr. Obama's comments on Friday have led Democrats to demand further action.
Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the ranking Democrat on the House
Intelligence Committee, said the response should mix "additional economic
sanctions along with our allies, and clandestine means of exacting a cost on the
Russians for their flagrant meddling in our election."

"I have little confidence," he continued, "that the incoming president will take
the actions necessary to make the Russians pay any price for the most
consequential 'active measures' campaign against us in history."

PHOTO: President Obama vowed on Friday to "send a clear message to Russia" about
its election hacking. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL DRAGO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20)

Related Articles


     ·    Clinton Says 'Personal Beef' by Putin Led to Hacking Attacks
     ·    U.S. Faces Tall Hurdles in Detaining or Deterring Russian Hackers
     ·    Obama Says U.S. Will Retaliate for Russia's Election Meddling
     ·    Democratic House Candidates Were Also Targets of Russian Hacking


LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 18, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

Senators Push to Broaden Inquiry on Election Hacking

BYLINE: NICHOLAS FANDOS

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1286 words



HIGHLIGHT: A bipartisan group, including John McCain and Chuck Schumer, called
for the creation of a select committee on cyberactivity to lead the
investigation.


WASHINGTON - Pressure mounted on Sunday for a broader congressional
investigation of Russian cyberattacks aimed at influencing the American
election, even as a top aide to President-elect Donald J. Trump said there was
no conclusive evidence of foreign interference.

The effort was being led by a bipartisan group of senators, including John
McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Chuck Schumer of New York, the Senate
Democratic leader, who called on Sunday for the creation of a Senate select
committee on cyberactivity to take the investigative lead on Capitol Hill.

"Recent reports of Russian interference in our election should alarm every
American," the senators wrote on Sunday in a letter to Senator Mitch McConnell,
Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, who has said a select committee
is not necessary. "Cybersecurity is the ultimate cross-jurisdictional challenge,
and we must take a comprehensive approach to meet this challenge effectively."

The developments served to deepen the fissures between high-ranking lawmakers of
both parties who see American intelligence reports implicating Russia as the
basis for additional inquiries and Mr. Trump, who continues to reject the
conclusions of those reports.

But the developments also put new strain on Mr. McConnell. He now faces calls
from Mr. McCain and Lindsey Graham, two Senate Republicans considered well
versed on national security issues, to form a select committee. If he were to
reject that appeal, he would be subject to criticism that he was trying to avoid
a spotlight on an issue that senators in both parties believe is worthy of more
focused scrutiny.

Mr. McConnell said last week that while he respects the intelligence agencies'
conclusions, the Senate Intelligence Committee is "more than capable of
conducting a complete review" itself. He also acknowledged that Mr. McCain could
conduct an investigation on the Armed Services Committee, an option that remains
open should Mr. McConnell decide against a select committee.

Those divisions, coming as the Electoral College prepares to meet on Monday to
ratify Mr. Trump's election and the president-elect completes his cabinet
choices, all but ensured that the issue would cloud the first months of Mr.
Trump's presidency, when he will be asking Congress to approve an aggressive
legislative agenda.

Several permanent congressional committees have already been tasked with
examining various aspects of the Russian interference, which has been largely
accepted as fact by most members of Congress.

But in their letter on Sunday, the lawmakers argued the issue was too important
and complicated for an existing committee to take on properly.

"We share your respect for, and deference to, the regular order of the Senate,
and we recognize that this is an extraordinary request," the senators wrote to
Mr. McConnell. "However, we believe it is justified by the extraordinary scope
and scale of the cyber problem."

In addition to undertaking a "comprehensive investigation of Russian
interference," the senators recommended that such a committee also develop
"comprehensive recommendations and, as necessary, new legislation to modernize
our nation's laws, governmental organization, and related practices to meet this
challenge."

Select committees, which are typically created to examine a particular issue for
a limited time, are rarely formed. The most prominent recent example is the
House Select Committee on the attacks in 2012 on the American diplomatic
compound in Benghazi, Libya, an inquiry that Democrats have denounced as unduly
partisan.

Speaker Paul D. Ryan said last week that the House Intelligence Committee would
continue its own examination of Russian hacking.

Mr. Schumer said in a news conference on Sunday that they intended to avoid such
charges of partisanship.

"We don't want it to just be finger pointing at one person or another," Mr.
Schumer said. "We want to find out what the Russians are doing to our political
system and what other foreign governments might do to our political system. And
then figure out a way to stop it."

A spokesman for Mr. McConnell, David Popp, referred to Mr. McConnell's earlier
comments and said the majority leader would be reviewing the latest letter.

The letter was also signed by Mr. Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and
Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, two members of the Senate Armed
Services Committee that Mr. McCain leads. It follows a signed statement from the
lawmakers, released last week, warning that any congressional investigation into
the hacks "cannot become a partisan issue."

Mr. Trump, for his part, has sought to paint the intelligence community's
conclusions about the matter as just that - a partisan attack against him. He
said last week that the reports were "just another excuse" by Democrats
frustrated with the election results that might be used to try to undermine his
victory.

Asked on CBS's "Face the Nation" on Sunday what information Mr. Trump had
received that led him to reject intelligence assessments, Kellyanne Conway, one
of Mr. Trump's top advisers, insisted that the reports about the hacking were
groundless.

"Where is the evidence?" Ms. Conway asked, turning the question around. "Why,
when C.I.A. officials were invited to a House intelligence briefing last week,
did they refuse to go?"

Robert M. Gates, the former defense secretary under President Obama and
President George W. Bush who has offered counsel to Mr. Trump, speculated on
NBC's "Meet the Press" that the president-elect "felt the way this information
came out through newspaper stories and so on was somehow intended to
delegitimize his victory in the election and that he's reacting to that rather
than 'the facts on the ground,' as it were."

But Mr. Gates also said the Russian hacking was aimed at discrediting the
American electoral process.

"Whether or not it was intended to help one candidate or another, I don't know,"
said Mr. Gates, who also served as C.I.A. director under President George Bush.
"But I think it clearly was aimed at discrediting our elections, and I think it
was aimed certainly at weakening Mrs. Clinton."

Mr. Obama, in a news conference on Friday, vowed that the United States would
respond to the attack. He said that he was still weighing a mix of covert and
public actions to retaliate before he leaves office. And lawmakers from both
parties have proposed new sanctions to punish Russia.

Speaking Sunday on CNN's "State of the Union," Mr. McCain sought to add urgency
to the matter.

"There's no doubt they were interfering and no doubt that it was cyberattacks,"
he said of the Russians. "The question now is how much and what damage and what
should the United States of America do? And so far, we have been totally
paralyzed."

Mr. McCain said that he had faith that "reality is going to intercede at one
point or another" on Mr. Trump, suggesting that the president-elect might come
to agree about Russian influence.

Asked on CBS about Mr. Obama's pledge of retaliation, Ms. Conway said Mr. Trump
"respects" Mr. Obama's right to respond as he sees fit for the remainder of his
presidency. But, she added, that "doesn't mean that new President Trump will
agree with it and continue it."

"It does seem to be a political response at this point because it seems like the
president is under pressure from Team Hillary, who can't accept the election
results," she said.

Related Articles


     ·    Obama Confronts Complexity of Using a Mighty Cyberarsenal Against
          Russia
     ·    U.S. Faces Tall Hurdles in Detaining or Deterring Russian Hackers
     ·    Obama Says U.S. Will Retaliate for Russia's Election Meddling
     ·    Democratic House Candidates Were Also Targets of Russian Hacking
     ·    The Perfect Weapon: How Russian Cyberpower Invaded the U.S.


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 18, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wary President Takes On Riddles of Cyberwarfare

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1711 words


WASHINGTON -- Over the past four months, American intelligence agencies and
aides to President Obama assembled a menu of options to respond to Russia's
hacking during the election, ranging from the obvious -- exposing President
Vladimir V. Putin's financial ties to oligarchs -- to the innovative, including
manipulating the computer code that Russia uses in designing its cyberweapons.

But while Mr. Obama vowed on Friday to ''send a clear message to Russia'' as
both a punishment and a deterrent, some of the options were rejected as
ineffective, others as too risky. If the choices had been better, one of the
aides involved in the debate noted recently, the president would have acted by
now.

In his last weeks in office, that Situation Room debate has confronted a
naturally cautious president with a complex calculus that President-elect Donald
J. Trump will soon inherit: how to use the world's most powerful cyberarsenal at
a moment when the United States, as the election showed, remains highly
vulnerable.

''Is there something we can do to them, that they would see, they would realize
98 percent that we did it, but that wouldn't be so obvious that they would then
have to respond for their own honor?'' David H. Petraeus, the former director of
the Central Intelligence Agency under Mr. Obama, asked on Friday, at a
conference here sponsored by Harvard's Belfer Center for Science and
International Affairs. ''The question is how subtle do you want it, how damaging
do you want it, how do you try to end it here rather than just ratchet it up?''

The idea of exposing Mr. Putin's links to oligarchs was set aside after some
aides argued that it would not come as a shock to Russians. Still, there are
proposals to cut off leaders in Mr. Putin's inner circle from their hidden bank
accounts in Europe and Asia. There is an option to use sanctions under a
year-old executive order to ban international travel for senior officials in the
G.R.U., the Russian military intelligence unit that American spy agencies say
stole emails from the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton's
campaign chairman, then doled them out to WikiLeaks, betting that media outlets
eager for insider details would amplify them, doing the Kremlin's work for it.

The National Security Agency and its military cousin, the United States Cyber
Command, which is responsible for computer-network warfare, have worked up other
ideas, officials said, though some have been rejected by the Pentagon.

Those plans could deploy the world-class arsenal of cyberweapons assembled at a
cost of billions of dollars during Mr. Obama's tenure to expose or neutralize
some of the hacking tools favored by Russia's spies -- the digital equivalent of
a pre-emptive strike. But the selection of targets by Americans and the accuracy
of that retaliation could also expose software ''implants'' that the United
States has patiently inserted and nurtured in Russian networks, in case of
future cyberconflicts.

And the revelation in August about some of the N.S.A.'s own tools for breaking
into foreign computer networks has raised the possibility that the Russians are
already inside American networks and are sending a warning that they can respond
in kind.

All of this has led Mr. Obama to ask how the Russians might escalate the
confrontation, and whether the United States in the end may have more to lose
than Russia.

''He doesn't have great options,'' said Michael D. McFaul, formerly one of Mr.
Obama's top national security aides and then his ambassador to Moscow.

Mr. Obama is the president who, in his first year in office, reached for some of
the most sophisticated cyberweapons on earth to blow up parts of Iran's nuclear
facilities. Now, at the end of his presidency, he has run headlong into a
different challenge in the cyberwarfare arena.

The president has reached two conclusions, senior officials report: The only
thing worse than not using a weapon is using it ineffectively. And if he does
choose to retaliate, he has insisted on maintaining what is known as
''escalation dominance,'' the ability to ensure you can end a conflict on your
terms.

Mr. Obama hinted as much at his news conference on Friday, as he was set to
leave for his annual Hawaii vacation, his last as president.

''Our goal continues to be to send a clear message to Russia or others not to do
this to us because we can do stuff to you,'' he said. ''But it is also important
to us to do that in a thoughtful, methodical way. Some of it, we will do
publicly. Some of it we will do in a way that they know, but not everybody
will.''

He rejected calls for a big, symbolic show of power, dismissing the idea that if
the United States ''thumped our chests about a bunch of stuff, that somehow that
would potentially spook the Russians.'' The goal, Mr. Obama said, was to come up
with a response ''that increases costs for them for behavior like this in the
future but does not create problems for us.''

There is not much new in tampering with elections, except for the technical
sophistication of the tools. For all the outrage voiced by Democrats and
Republicans in the past week about the Russian action -- with the notable
exception of Mr. Trump, who has dismissed the intelligence findings as
politically motivated -- it is worth remembering that trying to manipulate
elections is a well-honed American art form.

The C.I.A. got its start trying to influence the outcome of Italy's elections in
1948, as the author Tim Weiner documented in his book ''Legacy of Ashes,'' in an
effort to keep Communists from taking power. Five years later, the C.I.A.
engineered a coup against Mohammad Mossadegh, Iran's democratically elected
leader, when the United States and Britain installed the Shah.

''The military coup that overthrew Mosaddeq and his National Front cabinet was
carried out under CIA direction as an act of U.S. foreign policy, conceived and
approved at the highest levels of government,'' the agency concluded in one of
its own reports, declassified around the 60th anniversary of those events, which
were engineered in large part by Kermit Roosevelt Jr., a grandson of President
Theodore Roosevelt.

There were similar interferences over the years in Guatemala, Chile and even in
Japan, hailed as a model of post-World War II democracy, where the Liberal
Democratic Party owes its early grip on power in the 1950s and 1960s to millions
of dollars in covert C.I.A. support.

The only differences this year are that the effort was directed at the United
States, and that it was cyberenabled, giving Moscow a tool to amplify its
efforts through the echo chamber of social media and news organizations that
quoted from the leaked emails.

''What has changed is that this was using cyberspace for advancing a political
objective,'' said Adm. James A. Winnefeld Jr., who served as vice chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff until he retired last year. Cybertechniques, he said,
have amplified an old form of ''political warfare, and the issue is not whether
it successfully influenced the election -- but the fact that they did it.''

Over the past few months, an administration that prided itself on its work on
cyberoffense and cyberdefense has learned a hard lesson: When it came to the
2016 election, an economically failing Russia, dismissed by Mr. Obama on Friday
for its inability to grow or to innovate, exploited giant holes in the American
system.

Mr. Obama conceded that he first heard about the attack on the Democratic
National Committee ''early last summer,'' or nine months after the F.B.I. first
alerted low-level D.N.C. officials about what had happened. That now appears to
be critical lost time.

If Mr. Obama had confronted the Russians immediately, in public or in the kind
of private warning he said he delivered to Mr. Putin only three months ago
during a meeting in China, the United States might have derailed the hacking
campaign before it harvested and revealed thousands of emails.

But the election hacking also raised questions about whether the American
fixation on a ''cyber Pearl Harbor'' -- a devastating attack on the power grid,
cellphone network, financial system or computer-controlled gas pipelines --
overlooked a more obvious vulnerability.

As a detailed account in The New York Times last Wednesday revealed, the D.N.C.
had virtually no protections for its electronic systems, and Mrs. Clinton's
campaign chairman, John D. Podesta, had failed to sign up for the ''two-factor
authentication'' on his Gmail account. Doing so probably would have foiled what
Mr. Obama called a fairly primitive attack.

Now the question facing Mr. Obama is how public a retaliation to execute.

The president laid out a case on Friday for acting with subtlety, so as not to
start a tit-for-tat conflict.

But as Joseph Nye, a strategist on so-called soft power, noted on Friday, ''The
reason to make some of this public is not just to deter the Russians, it is to
deter others as well,'' in future elections.

It is possible, said Mr. McFaul, the former ambassador to Russia, that Mr.
Obama's most lasting contribution may be to get the details of the Russian hack
declassified and to publish a report he has instructed the intelligence
community to assemble before he leaves office.

''Given that Obama only has a few more weeks in office, I think he needs to
focus his remaining time on attribution -- that is declassification of
intelligence so that there is no ambiguity about the Russian actions,'' Mr.
McFaul said. That ''is completely within his powers,'' he added, and would spur
more congressional investigations regardless of the stance taken by Mr. Trump on
the hack.

Mr. Obama's comments on Friday have led Democrats to demand further action.
Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the ranking Democrat on the House
Intelligence Committee, said the response should mix ''additional economic
sanctions along with our allies, and clandestine means of exacting a cost on the
Russians for their flagrant meddling in our election.''

''I have little confidence,'' he continued, ''that the incoming president will
take the actions necessary to make the Russians pay any price for the most
consequential 'active measures' campaign against us in history.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/17/us/politics/obama-putin-russia-hacking-us-elec
tions.html

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama vowed on Friday to ''send a clear message to
Russia'' about its election hacking. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL DRAGO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 19, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

How to Respond to Russia's Hacking;
Letters

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 818 words



HIGHLIGHT: Readers discuss how President Obama, President-elect Trump and
Hillary Clinton have reacted and how to improve cybersecurity.


To the Editor:

Re "Senators Push to Widen Inquiry on Russian Meddling in Election" (front page,
Dec. 19):

This is not just about Russian hacking of our election, but about cybersecurity
in general. If Russia gets away with this because our president-elect doesn't
accept our intelligence agencies' assessment, it's open season for any foreign
power to hack and disseminate information considered advantageous to its own
welfare. This includes not only hostile regimes (Iran), but trading partners
(China, India) and "friendly" governments (Israel) as well.

Our cybersecurity has been lagging behind technological advances for years.
Rather than deride the intelligence that we are at risk, Donald Trump and the
G.O.P. should be vowing to make ours the most cybersecure nation in the world.
That is what would have happened had the Trump campaign emails been released,
and Hillary Clinton been elected.

JESSE ALLEN

Santa Fe, N.M.

To the Editor:

If Donald Trump can be so dismissive of the American intelligence community's
consensus, now made public, of Russia's cyber meddling in our presidential
election on his behalf, what happens after his inauguration when that
intelligence community reports exclusively to him?

Put another way, what future intelligence will President Trump dismiss or
withhold from the American public, however accurate and alarming, if he finds it
politically inconvenient or personally embarrassing?

STEVEN DOLOFF

New York

To the Editor:

Extreme partisanship continues to erode the foundations of our democracy. It is
up to our elected officials to work for the good of the people they represent,
not for individual or party power. Republicans and Democrats must unite to
investigate Russian interference in the 2016 election. A committee similar to
the Watergate committee must be appointed and its hearings televised. The
Russian hacking is an attack on our country, and regardless of political
affiliation every American should demand a strong response. Where is the
outrage? Let a nonpartisan investigation reveal the people involved and the
extent of their criminality.

AMY TONKONOW-KOHAN

Coconut Grove, Fla.

To the Editor:

Ariel Dorfman eloquently argues that what Russia allegedly did in hacking the
2016 United States presidential election, the United States has often done to
other countries, including his native Chile ("Now America Knows How Chile Felt,"
Op-Ed, Dec. 17).

Mr. Dorfman is correct: If Russia helped Donald Trump win the White House, that
undermines Mr. Trump's legitimacy, but it must not be the occasion for
retaliation. In the context of nuclear superpowers, retaliation would be
extremely dangerous.

It is past time to recognize that cyber war is nothing less than war, with
extremely serious consequences. This is the moment to press for a global
agreement banning state-sponsored cyber war, whether attacks on a nation's power
grid or its electoral process.

While a treaty would not stop nonstate actors, it would help isolate
perpetrators as rogues and reduce the risk that cyberattacks would slide into
conventional or nuclear conflict.

DAVID KEPPEL

Bloomington, Ind.

To the Editor:

Re "Afraid to Politicize Intelligence, Obama Delayed Blaming Russia for Hack"
(news article, Dec. 15):

President Obama said in effect that he did not want to give the appearance of
meddling in the election. If the trade-off was between the president's
appearance of not meddling and the American people having to put up with four
disastrous years, I think that the choice should have been clear.

DEBASIS MITRA

New York

To the Editor:

Re "Obama Vows U.S. Reprisal for Moscow's Meddling" (news article, Dec. 17):
President Obama stated, "I think there is no doubt that when any foreign
government tries to impact the integrity of our elections that we need to take
action." Yet in April 2016, President Obama tried to influence the Brexit vote
by using scare tactics through his comment that Britain would be in the "back of
the queue" with regard to any trade deal with the United States.

Clearly President Obama is being hypocritical with his recent comments.
Governments consistently try to exert influence, whether overtly or covertly,
and the United States is no exception.

IAN D. BISHOP

Upland, Calif.

To the Editor:

Re "Putin's 'Personal Beef' Led to Hacking Attacks, Clinton Tells Supporters"
(news article, Dec. 17):

Hillary Clinton is correct. The Russian hacking was an unforgivable attack
against America, for which Russia must bear significant consequences.

But it is not true that a combination of the hacking and the F.B.I.'s letter
about its review of additional emails were responsible for her loss. Mrs.
Clinton lost the election by ignoring an important constituency of white Rust
Belt voters who were really hurting and needed someone to pay attention to them.
The election was hers to lose, and she did. She shouldn't blame others for what
was her own fault.

ROBERT J. FIRESTONE

New York

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senators Push to Widen Inquiry on Russian Meddling in Election

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS FANDOS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1248 words


WASHINGTON -- Pressure mounted on Sunday for a broader congressional
investigation of Russian cyberattacks aimed at influencing the American
election, even as a top aide to President-elect Donald J. Trump said there was
no conclusive evidence of foreign interference.

The effort was being led by a bipartisan group of senators, including John
McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Chuck Schumer of New York, the Senate
Democratic leader, who called on Sunday for the creation of a Senate select
committee on cyberactivity to take the investigative lead on Capitol Hill.

''Recent reports of Russian interference in our election should alarm every
American,'' the senators wrote on Sunday in a letter to Senator Mitch McConnell,
Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, who has said a select committee
is not necessary. ''Cybersecurity is the ultimate cross-jurisdictional
challenge, and we must take a comprehensive approach to meet this challenge
effectively.''

The developments served to deepen the fissures between high-ranking lawmakers of
both parties who see American intelligence reports implicating Russia as the
basis for additional inquiries and Mr. Trump, who continues to reject the
conclusions of those reports.

But the developments also put new strain on Mr. McConnell. He now faces calls
from Mr. McCain and Lindsey Graham, two Senate Republicans considered well
versed on national security issues, to form a select committee. If he were to
reject that appeal, he would be subject to criticism that he was trying to avoid
a spotlight on an issue that senators in both parties believe is worthy of more
focused scrutiny.

Mr. McConnell said last week that while he respects the intelligence agencies'
conclusions, the Senate Intelligence Committee is ''more than capable of
conducting a complete review'' itself. He also acknowledged that Mr. McCain
could conduct an investigation on the Armed Services Committee, an option that
remains open should Mr. McConnell decide against a select committee.

Those divisions, coming as the Electoral College prepares to meet on Monday to
ratify Mr. Trump's election and the president-elect completes his cabinet
choices, all but ensured that the issue would cloud the first months of Mr.
Trump's presidency, when he will be asking Congress to approve an aggressive
legislative agenda.

Several permanent congressional committees have already been tasked with
examining various aspects of the Russian interference, which has been largely
accepted as fact by most members of Congress.

But in their letter on Sunday, the lawmakers argued the issue was too important
and complicated for an existing committee to take on properly.

''We share your respect for, and deference to, the regular order of the Senate,
and we recognize that this is an extraordinary request,'' the senators wrote to
Mr. McConnell. ''However, we believe it is justified by the extraordinary scope
and scale of the cyber problem.''

In addition to undertaking a ''comprehensive investigation of Russian
interference,'' the senators recommended that such a committee also develop
''comprehensive recommendations and, as necessary, new legislation to modernize
our nation's laws, governmental organization, and related practices to meet this
challenge.''

Select committees, which are typically created to examine a particular issue for
a limited time, are rarely formed. The most prominent recent example is the
House Select Committee on the attacks in 2012 on the American diplomatic
compound in Benghazi, Libya, an inquiry that Democrats have denounced as unduly
partisan.

Speaker Paul D. Ryan said last week that the House Intelligence Committee would
continue its own examination of Russian hacking.

Mr. Schumer said in a news conference on Sunday that they intended to avoid such
charges of partisanship.

''We don't want it to just be finger pointing at one person or another,'' Mr.
Schumer said. ''We want to find out what the Russians are doing to our political
system and what other foreign governments might do to our political system. And
then figure out a way to stop it.''

A spokesman for Mr. McConnell, David Popp, referred to Mr. McConnell's earlier
comments and said the majority leader would be reviewing the latest letter.

The letter was also signed by Mr. Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and
Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, two members of the Senate Armed
Services Committee that Mr. McCain leads. It follows a signed statement from the
lawmakers, released last week, warning that any congressional investigation into
the hacks ''cannot become a partisan issue.''

Mr. Trump, for his part, has sought to paint the intelligence community's
conclusions about the matter as just that -- a partisan attack against him. He
said last week that the reports were ''just another excuse'' by Democrats
frustrated with the election results that might be used to try to undermine his
victory.

Asked on CBS's ''Face the Nation'' on Sunday what information Mr. Trump had
received that led him to reject intelligence assessments, Kellyanne Conway, one
of Mr. Trump's top advisers, insisted that the reports about the hacking were
groundless.

''Where is the evidence?'' Ms. Conway asked, turning the question around. ''Why,
when C.I.A. officials were invited to a House intelligence briefing last week,
did they refuse to go?''

Robert M. Gates, the former defense secretary under President Obama and
President George W. Bush who has offered counsel to Mr. Trump, speculated on
NBC's ''Meet the Press'' that the president-elect ''felt the way this
information came out through newspaper stories and so on was somehow intended to
delegitimize his victory in the election and that he's reacting to that rather
than 'the facts on the ground,' as it were.''

But Mr. Gates also said the Russian hacking was aimed at discrediting the
American electoral process.

''Whether or not it was intended to help one candidate or another, I don't
know,'' said Mr. Gates, who also served as C.I.A. director under President
George Bush. ''But I think it clearly was aimed at discrediting our elections,
and I think it was aimed certainly at weakening Mrs. Clinton.''

Mr. Obama, in a news conference on Friday, vowed that the United States would
respond to the attack. He said that he was still weighing a mix of covert and
public actions to retaliate before he leaves office. And lawmakers from both
parties have proposed new sanctions to punish Russia.

Speaking Sunday on CNN's ''State of the Union,'' Mr. McCain sought to add
urgency to the matter.

''There's no doubt they were interfering and no doubt that it was
cyberattacks,'' he said of the Russians. ''The question now is how much and what
damage and what should the United States of America do? And so far, we have been
totally paralyzed.''

Mr. McCain said that he had faith that ''reality is going to intercede at one
point or another'' on Mr. Trump, suggesting that the president-elect might come
to agree about Russian influence.

Asked on CBS about Mr. Obama's pledge of retaliation, Ms. Conway said Mr. Trump
''respects'' Mr. Obama's right to respond as he sees fit for the remainder of
his presidency. But, she added, that ''doesn't mean that new President Trump
will agree with it and continue it.''

''It does seem to be a political response at this point because it seems like
the president is under pressure from Team Hillary, who can't accept the election
results,'' she said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/18/us/politics/senators-push-to-broaden-inquiry-o
n-election-hacking.html

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

How to Respond to Russia's Hacking

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 833 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Senators Push to Widen Inquiry on Russian Meddling in Election'' (front
page, Dec. 19):

This is not just about Russian hacking of our election, but about cybersecurity
in general. If Russia gets away with this because our president-elect doesn't
accept our intelligence agencies' assessment, it's open season for any foreign
power to hack and disseminate information considered advantageous to its own
welfare. This includes not only hostile regimes (Iran), but trading partners
(China, India) and ''friendly'' governments (Israel) as well.

Our cybersecurity has been lagging behind technological advances for years.
Rather than deride the intelligence that we are at risk, Donald Trump and the
G.O.P. should be vowing to make ours the most cybersecure nation in the world.
That is what would have happened had the Trump campaign emails been released,
and Hillary Clinton been elected.

JESSE ALLEN

Santa Fe, N.M.

To the Editor:

If Donald Trump can be so dismissive of the American intelligence community's
consensus, now made public, of Russia's cyber meddling in our presidential
election on his behalf, what happens after his inauguration when that
intelligence community reports exclusively to him?

Put another way, what future intelligence will President Trump dismiss or
withhold from the American public, however accurate and alarming, if he finds it
politically inconvenient or personally embarrassing?

STEVEN DOLOFF

New York

To the Editor:

Extreme partisanship continues to erode the foundations of our democracy. It is
up to our elected officials to work for the good of the people they represent,
not for individual or party power. Republicans and Democrats must unite to
investigate Russian interference in the 2016 election. A committee similar to
the Watergate committee must be appointed and its hearings televised. The
Russian hacking is an attack on our country, and regardless of political
affiliation every American should demand a strong response. Where is the
outrage? Let a nonpartisan investigation reveal the people involved and the
extent of their criminality.

AMY TONKONOW-KOHAN

Coconut Grove, Fla.

To the Editor:

Ariel Dorfman eloquently argues that what Russia allegedly did in hacking the
2016 United States presidential election, the United States has often done to
other countries, including his native Chile (''Now America Knows How Chile
Felt,'' Op-Ed, Dec. 17).

Mr. Dorfman is correct: If Russia helped Donald Trump win the White House, that
undermines Mr. Trump's legitimacy, but it must not be the occasion for
retaliation. In the context of nuclear superpowers, retaliation would be
extremely dangerous.

It is past time to recognize that cyber war is nothing less than war, with
extremely serious consequences. This is the moment to press for a global
agreement banning state-sponsored cyber war, whether attacks on a nation's power
grid or its electoral process.

While a treaty would not stop nonstate actors, it would help isolate
perpetrators as rogues and reduce the risk that cyberattacks would slide into
conventional or nuclear conflict.

DAVID KEPPEL

Bloomington, Ind.

To the Editor:

Re ''Afraid to Politicize Intelligence, Obama Delayed Blaming Russia for Hack''
(news article, Dec. 15):

President Obama said in effect that he did not want to give the appearance of
meddling in the election. If the trade-off was between the president's
appearance of not meddling and the American people having to put up with four
disastrous years, I think that the choice should have been clear.

DEBASIS MITRA

New York

To the Editor:

Re ''Obama Vows U.S. Reprisal for Moscow's Meddling'' (news article, Dec. 17):
President Obama stated, ''I think there is no doubt that when any foreign
government tries to impact the integrity of our elections that we need to take
action.'' Yet in April 2016, President Obama tried to influence the Brexit vote
by using scare tactics through his comment that Britain would be in the ''back
of the queue'' with regard to any trade deal with the United States.

Clearly President Obama is being hypocritical with his recent comments.
Governments consistently try to exert influence, whether overtly or covertly,
and the United States is no exception.

IAN D. BISHOP

Upland, Calif.

To the Editor:

Re ''Putin's 'Personal Beef' Led to Hacking Attacks, Clinton Tells Supporters''
(news article, Dec. 17):

Hillary Clinton is correct. The Russian hacking was an unforgivable attack
against America, for which Russia must bear significant consequences.

But it is not true that a combination of the hacking and the F.B.I.'s letter
about its review of additional emails were responsible for her loss. Mrs.
Clinton lost the election by ignoring an important constituency of white Rust
Belt voters who were really hurting and needed someone to pay attention to them.
The election was hers to lose, and she did. She shouldn't blame others for what
was her own fault.

ROBERT J. FIRESTONE

New York




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/19/opinion/how-to-respond-to-russias-hacking.html

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     December 21, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

[#x421][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x448][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
[#x43e][#x440][#x443][#x434][#x438][#x435]: [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x44f]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x43c][#x43e][#x449][#x44c]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]\xD0[#x430] [#x432] [#x421][#x428][#x410].

BYLINE: [#x42d][#x420][#x418][#x41a] [#x41b][#x418][#x41f][#x422][#x41e][#x41d],
[#x414][#x42d][#x412][#x418][#x414] [#x42d].
[#x421][#x410][#x41d][#x413][#x415][#x420] [#x418]
[#x421][#x41a][#x41e][#x422][#x422] [#x428][#x415][#x419][#x41d]

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 11503 words



HIGHLIGHT: [#x420][#x435][#x437][#x443]\xD0[#x44c][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x44b]
[#x440][#x430][#x441][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#
x44f] [#x433][#x430][#x437][#x435][#x442][#x44b]
"[#x41d][#x44c][#x44e]-[#x419][#x43e][#x440][#x43a]
[#x422][#x430][#x439][#x43c][#x441]"
\xD0[#x43e][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x44e][#x442]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x449][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x441][#x438][#x433]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x44b],
\xD0[#x435][#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x435][#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x435]\xD0\x
D0[#x43e][#x435]
[#x440][#x435][#x430][#x433][#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435
] [#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x436][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[
#x430][#x44f] \xD0[#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x43e][#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x43a][#x430]
[#x441][#x435][#x440][#x44c][#x435][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438]
[#x43a][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x438]
[#x441][#x440][#x44b][#x432][#x430]
[#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x432] [#x421][#x428][#x410].


[#x412][#x430][#x448][#x438]\xD0[#x433][#x43e][#x442][#x43e]\xD0 --
[#x41a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430] [#x432]
[#x441][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x44f][#x431][#x440][#x435] 2015
[#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x430],
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x446][#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442] [#x424][#x411][#x420]
[#x42d][#x434][#x440][#x438][#x430]\xD0 [#x425][#x43e][#x43a][#x438]\xD0[#x441]
\xD0[#x43e][#x437][#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x438]\xD0 [#x432]
[#x41d][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x438][#x442][#x435][#x442]
[#x414][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x
441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439] \xD0[#x430][#x440][#x442][#x438][#x438] (DNC),
[#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x442][#x440][#x435][#x432][#x43e][#x436]\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
[#x438][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x438][#x435] [#x43e][#x431]
[#x438][#x445]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x441][#x435][#x442][#x438], [#x435][#x433][#x43e],
[#x435][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e],
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x432][#x435]\xD0[#x438] [#x432]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x436][#x431][#x443]
[#x442][#x435][#x445]\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x434][#x435][#x440][#x436][#x43a][#x438
]. [#x415][#x433][#x43e]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x442][#x43a][#x438][#x43c], \xD0[#x43e]
[#x442][#x440][#x435][#x432][#x43e][#x436]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]. [#x41f][#x43e]
[#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x439]\xD0[#x435][#x439] [#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x435]
[#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x430] [#x438][#x437]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c],
\xD0[#x440][#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x434]\xD0[#x435][#x436][#x430][#x449][#x438][#x44
5] DNC [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x430]
[#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x43c][#x435][#x442][#x438][#x440
][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x430]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x43c][#x438],
[#x433][#x440][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x448]\xD0[#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x432],
[#x441][#x432][#x44f][#x437][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445] [#x441]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x43c]
\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442][#x432][#
x43e][#x43c], [#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x445]
[#x444][#x435][#x434][#x435][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x44b]
\xD0[#x430][#x437][#x44b][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438] "The Dukes".

[#x41e]\xD0[#x438] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438]
[#x445][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x448][#x43e]
[#x438][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x44b] [#x424][#x411][#x420]:
\xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
\xD0[#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e] \xD0[#x435][#x442]
[#x411][#x44e][#x440][#x43e]
[#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c]
[#x442][#x435][#x43c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b]
[#x438][#x437][#x431][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x44c] [#x43e][#x442]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
The Dukes [#x432]
\xD0[#x435][#x437][#x430][#x441][#x435][#x43a][#x440][#x435][#x447][#x435]\xD0\x
D0[#x44b][#x435] [#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x44b]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x43e][#x447][#x442][#x44b] [#x411][#x435]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43c][#x430],
[#x413][#x43e][#x441][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x442][#x430][#x43c][#x435
]\xD0[#x442][#x430] [#x438] [#x434][#x430][#x436][#x435]
[#x41e][#x431][#x44a][#x435][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43
e] [#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x438][#x442][#x435][#x442][#x430]
\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432]
[#x448][#x442][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x432] [#x441] [#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x43e][#x439]
[#x437][#x430][#x449][#x438][#x449][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x441][#x435][#x442][#x44c][#x44e].

[#x419][#x44d][#x435][#x440][#x434] [#x422][#x44d][#x43c][#x438]\xD0,
[#x441][#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x443][#x434]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x436][#x431][#x44b]
[#x442][#x435][#x445]\xD0[#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x434][#x435][#x440][#x436][#x43a][#x438] DNC,
\xD0[#x440][#x438]\xD0[#x44f][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x439]
[#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x444][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x437][#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x43a], \xD0[#x435] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0
[#x44d][#x43a][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x442][#x43e][#x43c] \xD0[#x43e]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x430][#x43c].
[#x414]\xD0[#x44f] \xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x430] [#x43e]\xD0
"[#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x435][#x437]" [#x432] [#x413][#x443][#x433]\xD0,
[#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x438]\xD0[#x444][#x43e][#x440][#x43c][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x44e] [#x43e]
[#x433][#x440][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x435] The Dukes [#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x435]\xD0
\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x445]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x44b][#x43
9] \xD0[#x43e][#x438][#x441][#x43a] [#x432]
[#x440][#x435][#x433][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x43e]\xD
0\xD0[#x44b][#x445] [#x436][#x443][#x440]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x430][#x445]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x441][#x435][#x442][#x435][#x439] [#x441] [#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e]
[#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x443][#x436][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x44b]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]\xD0[#x43
e][#x432][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]. [#x41f][#x43e] [#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x441][#x43e][#x431][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x443]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x437]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x44e], [#x43e]\xD0 \xD0[#x435]
[#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x44f][#x442][#x44c]
[#x441]\xD0[#x438][#x448][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e],
[#x434][#x430][#x436][#x435] \xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x435]
[#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e] [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x446][#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442]
[#x425][#x43e][#x43a][#x438]\xD0[#x441]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x437][#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x438]\xD0
[#x435][#x43c][#x443] \xD0[#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e]
[#x440][#x430][#x437] [#x432]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x443][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x435]
\xD0[#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e]
\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x44c] -
[#x43e][#x442][#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442][#x438]
\xD0[#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x43c][#x443], [#x447][#x442][#x43e] \xD0[#x435]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0 [#x443][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x435]\xD0,
[#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x437][#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x439]
[#x434][#x435][#x439][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#
x43e] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0 [#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x43e][#x43c], [#x430]
\xD0[#x435]
[#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x43e][#x437][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x446][#x435][#x43c].

"[#x42f] \xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430][#x43a] \xD0[#x435] [#x43c][#x43e][#x433]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x44c] \xD0[#x435]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0 \xD0[#x438] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x442]
[#x437][#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x43a]
[#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x444][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]
[#x440][#x43e][#x437][#x44b][#x433][#x440][#x44b][#x448][#x435][#x43c]," -
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x430]\xD0 [#x433]-\xD0
[#x422][#x44d][#x43c][#x438]\xD0 [#x432]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x436][#x435][#x431]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x435],
[#x445][#x430][#x440][#x430][#x43a][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x437][#x443][#x
44e][#x449][#x435][#x439] [#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x442] [#x432] [#x424][#x411][#x420]
[#x438] [#x438][#x43c][#x435][#x44e][#x449][#x435][#x439][#x441][#x44f] [#x432]
[#x440][#x430][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x440][#x44f][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x438]
"[#x41d][#x44c][#x44e]-[#x419][#x43e][#x440][#x43a]
[#x422][#x430][#x439][#x43c][#x441]".

[#x42d][#x442][#x43e] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0 \xD0[#x435][#x440][#x432][#x44b][#x439]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x441][#x432][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x441][#x438][#x433]\xD0[#x430]\xD0,
[#x441][#x432][#x438][#x434][#x435][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442][#x432
][#x443][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x439] [#x43e]
[#x43a][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x438]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x448]\xD0[#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x436][#
x430] [#x438]
[#x438]\xD0[#x444][#x43e][#x440][#x43c][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43
e][#x439] [#x432][#x43e][#x439]\xD0[#x44b],
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x430] [#x441][#x440][#x44b][#x432]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#
x445] [#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x432] 2016
[#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x430], \xD0[#x435][#x440][#x432][#x430][#x44f] [#x432]
[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x438][#x438] [#x421][#x428][#x410]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44b][#x442][#x43a][#x430]
[#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x43e] [#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x430],
[#x43e][#x441][#x443][#x449][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432]\xD0[#x44f][#x435][#x43c
][#x430][#x44f] [#x441][#x43e] [#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x44b]
[#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x433][#x43e][#x441][#x443][#x434][#x430][#x440][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x430].

[#x41f][#x43e] [#x43c]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44e]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#
x435][#x439] [#x440][#x430][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x43a][#x438],
[#x442][#x43e], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c] [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x44f] \xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x443]
[#x438]\xD0[#x444][#x43e][#x440][#x43c][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x438], [#x432]
[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x443]\xD0[#x44c][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x435]
[#x432][#x44b]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c] [#x432]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44b][#x442][#x43a][#x443]
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x435][#x441][#x442][#x438] [#x432][#x440][#x435][#x434]
[#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x443]
[#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x438][#x434][#x430][#x442][#x443],
[#x425][#x438]\xD0\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x438]
[#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0 [#x438]
[#x438][#x437][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x441][#x438][#x442][#x443][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x44e] [#x432]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x437][#x443] [#x435][#x435]
[#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430]
[#x414][#x43e]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x44c][#x434][#x430]
[#x422][#x440][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430].

[#x41f][#x43e][#x434][#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x434][#x440][#x443][#x433][#x43e][#x43c][#x443]
[#x438][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x443]
[#x441][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x443],
[#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x436][#x435]
[#x441][#x432][#x44f][#x437][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x443] [#x441]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#
x43c][#x438] [#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x430][#x43c][#x438] [#x432]
[#x421][#x428][#x410], [#x432][#x441][#x435]
\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c] [#x441]
\xD0[#x435][#x437][#x430][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
[#x432] DNC. [#x412] \xD0[#x435][#x440][#x432][#x44b][#x439]
[#x440][#x430][#x437], 44 [#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x430]
\xD0[#x430][#x437][#x430][#x434], [#x432]
[#x441][#x442][#x430][#x440][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x437][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x438]
[#x41a][#x43e][#x43c][#x438][#x442][#x435][#x442][#x430] [#x432]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x441][#x435]
[#x423][#x43e][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x433][#x435][#x439][#x442],
[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x449][#x438][#x43a][#x438]
[#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x436][#x438]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x448][#x438][#x432][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#
x438][#x435]
[#x443][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x43e][#x439][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x430] [#x438]
[#x432][#x441][#x43a][#x440][#x44b]\xD0[#x438]
[#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x44f][#x440][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x439]
[#x448][#x43a][#x430][#x444]. [#x41d][#x430] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x442]
[#x440][#x430][#x437] [#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c]
[#x43e][#x441][#x443][#x449][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432]\xD0[#x44f]\xD0[#x441][#
x44f]
[#x434][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x446][#x438][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e],
[#x438][#x437][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x430], \xD0[#x43e][#x434]
[#x440][#x443][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e][#x
43c] [#x41a][#x440][#x435][#x43c]\xD0[#x44f],
\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x432][#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
"[#x444][#x438][#x448][#x438]\xD0[#x433]-[#x43c][#x43e][#x448][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x
438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x430]"
[#x447][#x435][#x440][#x435][#x437]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x443][#x44e]
\xD0[#x43e][#x447][#x442][#x443].

[#x420][#x430][#x441][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#
x435] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x439]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x438]
[#x440][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x445],
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
"[#x41d][#x44c][#x44e]-[#x419][#x43e][#x440][#x43a]
[#x422][#x430][#x439][#x43c][#x441]",
[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x43e] \xD0[#x430]
[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x435][#x440][#x432][#x44c][#x44e] [#x441]
[#x434][#x435][#x441][#x44f][#x442][#x43a][#x430][#x43c][#x438]
\xD0[#x44e][#x434][#x435][#x439] -
[#x436][#x435][#x440][#x442][#x432][#x430][#x43c][#x438]
[#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x438], [#x441]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#
x44f][#x43c][#x438] [#x440][#x430][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x43a][#x438],
[#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x43c][#x438][#x441
][#x44f]
[#x440][#x430][#x441][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#
x435][#x43c] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e] [#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430]
[#x438] [#x441]
[#x447][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430][#x43c][#x438]
[#x410][#x434][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430][#x446][#x438
][#x438] \xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430]
[#x41e][#x431][#x430][#x43c][#x44b],
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x44b][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x432][#x430][#x432][#x448][#x438
][#x43c][#x438] \xD0[#x430][#x434]\xD0[#x435][#x436][#x430][#x449][#x443][#x44e]
[#x444][#x43e][#x440][#x43c][#x443] [#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x442][#x430]
\xD0[#x430]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x443].
[#x42d][#x442][#x43e]
[#x440][#x430][#x441][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#
x435] [#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x443][#x436][#x438]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x44b][#x439] [#x440][#x44f][#x434]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x449][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x441][#x438][#x433]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x432],
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x432]
[#x437][#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x434]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x440][#x435][#x430][#x43a][#x446][#x438][#x438] [#x438]
[#x437][#x430][#x442][#x44f]\xD0[#x443][#x432][#x448][#x435][#x433][#x43e][#x441
][#x44f] \xD0[#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43e][#x434][#x430]
\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x43e][#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x43a][#x438]
[#x441][#x435][#x440][#x44c][#x435][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x439]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x438].

[#x41d][#x435][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x435][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x442]\xD0[#x44
b][#x439] [#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x442] DNC [#x441]
[#x424][#x411][#x420] \xD0[#x440][#x438][#x432][#x435]\xD0 [#x43a]
[#x442][#x43e][#x43c][#x443], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x430][#x44f]
[#x443][#x434][#x430][#x447]\xD0[#x430][#x44f]
[#x432][#x43e][#x437][#x43c][#x43e][#x436]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x44c]
[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x440][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x445] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x430]
[#x443]\xD0[#x443][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x430].
[#x41d][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#
x44c] [#x43e][#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x43c][#x430][#x441][#x448][#x442][#x430][#x431] [#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a]
\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x43a][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x447][#x435][#x440][#x43a]\xD0[#x443]\xD0[#x430]
[#x443][#x441][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x44f] \xD0[#x43e]
[#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x438][#x437][#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x430
]\xD0[#x438][#x44e] [#x438][#x445]
\xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x438][#x439]. [#x410]
\xD0[#x435][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x411][#x435]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e] [#x434][#x43e][#x43c][#x430]
[#x434][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x440][#x435][#x448][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x442]
[#x43e][#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430][#x435][#x442], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x440][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435] [#x442][#x430][#x43a] [#x438]
\xD0[#x435] \xD0[#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c]
[#x437][#x430] [#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x438]
[#x434][#x435][#x439][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x438][#x44f], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x43c][#x43e][#x436][#x435][#x442]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x432][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x438] [#x43a]
[#x43a][#x440][#x438][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x43c]
[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x443]\xD0[#x44c][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43c]
\xD0[#x440][#x438] [#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x430][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x438]
[#x431][#x443][#x434][#x443][#x449][#x438][#x445]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a].

[#x41d][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x448]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x445][#x43e][#x434] [#x424][#x411][#x420]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x432][#x435]\xD0 [#x43a] [#x442][#x43e][#x43c][#x443],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x44b]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x438]\xD0[#x438]
[#x432][#x43e][#x437][#x43c][#x43e][#x436]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x44c]
[#x432] [#x442][#x435][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
\xD0[#x43e][#x447][#x442][#x438] [#x441][#x435][#x43c][#x438]
[#x43c][#x435][#x441][#x44f][#x446][#x435][#x432]
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x431][#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x433][#x443]\xD0[#x438][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c][#x441][#
x44f] \xD0[#x43e] [#x441][#x435][#x442][#x44f][#x43c]
[#x41a][#x43e][#x43c][#x438][#x442][#x435][#x442][#x430],
\xD0[#x43e][#x43a][#x430] [#x432][#x44b][#x441][#x448][#x438][#x435]
[#x447][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x438] DNC \xD0[#x435]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x44b] [#x43e]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439]
[#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x435] [#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x432]\xD0[#x435][#x43a]\xD0[#x438],
\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x446],
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x446][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x432]
[#x434]\xD0[#x44f] [#x437][#x430][#x449][#x438][#x442][#x44b]
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x438][#x445] [#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c]
[#x441][#x432][#x44f][#x437][#x438]. [#x422][#x435][#x43c]
[#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x43c]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x44b]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x448]\xD0[#x438] \xD0[#x430]
[#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x438] [#x437][#x430]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430][#x43c][#x438] DNC, [#x432]
[#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438], \xD0[#x430]
[#x414][#x436][#x43e]\xD0[#x430] [#x414].
[#x41f][#x43e][#x434][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x430],
[#x433]\xD0[#x430][#x432][#x443]
[#x438][#x437][#x431][#x438][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#
x433][#x43e] [#x448][#x442][#x430][#x431][#x430] [#x433]-[#x436][#x438]
[#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0.
[#x41d][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e]
[#x43c][#x435][#x441][#x44f][#x446][#x435][#x432]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x441][#x442][#x44f] [#x435][#x433][#x43e]
\xD0[#x438][#x447]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
\xD0[#x43e][#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x432][#x44b][#x439]
[#x44f][#x449][#x438][#x43a] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0
[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x430]\xD0
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x43c][#x438].
[#x414][#x430][#x436][#x435] [#x433]-\xD0
[#x41f][#x43e][#x434][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x430],
[#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x43a]
[#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x443][#x448][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x439] [#x432]
[#x44d][#x442][#x438][#x445]
[#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x430][#x445], [#x441][#x430][#x43c]
[#x438][#x43c][#x435][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x439]
[#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0 [#x43a]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x444][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x446][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x44
c]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x438]\xD0[#x444][#x43e][#x440][#x43c][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x438],
[#x430][#x432][#x442][#x43e][#x440]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43a]\xD0[#x430][#x434][#x430] [#x43e]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x431][#x435][#x437][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x441
]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438],
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x43c] [#x432] 2014
[#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x443] [#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430]
[#x41e][#x431][#x430][#x43c][#x44b] \xD0[#x435] [#x441][#x43c][#x43e][#x433]
[#x432] \xD0[#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x439] [#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x435]
[#x43e][#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x441][#x435][#x440][#x44c][#x435][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x44c]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x438][#x441][#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x44f][#x449][#x435][#x433
][#x43e].

[#x41f][#x440][#x43e][#x448]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c] \xD0[#x435][#x442][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x414][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x44b] [#x432]
[#x431][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x43e][#x449]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x44f][#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438]
\xD0[#x430][#x431]\xD0[#x44e][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x438] [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x438][#x445] \xD0[#x438][#x447]\xD0[#x430][#x44f]
\xD0[#x43e][#x447][#x442][#x430] [#x438]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x444][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x446][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x44
c]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43a][#x443][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x44b],
[#x434][#x43e][#x431][#x44b][#x442][#x44b][#x435]
[#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430][#x43c][#x438]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x43a][#x438],
[#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x44c] [#x437][#x430] [#x434]\xD0[#x435][#x43c]
\xD0[#x43e][#x44f][#x432]\xD0[#x44f]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c] \xD0[#x430]
Wikileaks [#x438] \xD0[#x430] [#x434][#x440][#x443][#x433][#x438][#x445]
[#x441][#x430][#x439][#x442][#x430][#x445], [#x430]
[#x437][#x430][#x442][#x435][#x43c] [#x438] [#x432]
[#x440][#x435]\xD0[#x43e][#x440][#x442][#x430][#x436][#x430][#x445]
[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x445
] [#x421][#x41c][#x418], \xD0[#x435]
[#x438][#x441][#x43a]\xD0[#x44e][#x447][#x430][#x44f] [#x438]
"[#x422][#x430][#x439][#x43c][#x441]". [#x413]-\xD0
[#x422][#x440][#x430][#x43c]\xD0 [#x432] [#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x435]
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x435][#x439]
[#x43a][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x438] [#x441]
[#x443][#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x438][#x435
][#x43c] [#x446][#x438][#x442][#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0
[#x43c]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x438][#x435] [#x438][#x437]
\xD0[#x43e][#x445][#x438][#x449][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x435][#x43c].

[#x41a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x443]\xD0[#x44c][#x442][#x430][#x442]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x438][#x441][#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x44f][#x449][#x435][#x433
][#x43e], \xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x430]
[#x43e][#x442][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432][#x43a][#x430] [#x433]-[#x436][#x438]
[#x414][#x435][#x431][#x431][#x438]
[#x412][#x430][#x441][#x441][#x435][#x440][#x43c][#x430]\xD0
[#x428][#x443]\xD0[#x44c][#x446], [#x447]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x430]
[#x41f][#x430]\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x44b]
[#x41f][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD
0[#x435][#x439] [#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x435][#x434][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44f]
DNC, [#x430] [#x432][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434] [#x437][#x430] \xD0[#x435][#x439]
[#x438] [#x435][#x435]
[#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x436][#x430][#x439][#x448][#x438][#x445]
\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x43e][#x449]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432] \xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x442][#x438][#x438].
[#x412][#x435][#x434][#x443][#x449][#x438][#x435]
[#x434][#x435][#x44f][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x438]
[#x414][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x
441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439] \xD0[#x430][#x440][#x442][#x438][#x438]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438] [#x432][#x44b][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x44b]
[#x438][#x437] [#x438][#x433][#x440][#x44b] \xD0[#x430]
[#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x43e][#x43c] \xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x435]
[#x43a][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x438],
[#x432][#x44b]\xD0[#x443][#x436][#x434][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x437][#x430][#x43c][#x43e]\xD0[#x447][#x430][#x442][#x44c] \xD0[#x43e][#x434]
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x43e][#x442][#x43a][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x439],
[#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x443][#x436][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x432]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x43c][#x435][#x442][#x438][#x440][#x443
][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x445]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c][#x43c][#x430][#x445], [#x438]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x435][#x43e][#x431][#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x438][#x43c][#x43e][#x441][#x442
][#x44c][#x44e] \xD0[#x440][#x438]\xD0[#x44f][#x442][#x438][#x44f]
[#x441][#x440][#x43e][#x447]\xD0[#x44b][#x445] [#x43c][#x435][#x440]
[#x434]\xD0[#x44f] [#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x44c][#x431][#x44b] [#x441]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x43c][#x438].
[#x425][#x43e][#x442][#x44c] [#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x432]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x448][#x438][#x435]
[#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x448][#x435][#x435]
[#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x438],
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x444][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x446][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x44
c]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43a][#x443][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x44b],
[#x434][#x43e][#x431][#x44b][#x442][#x44b][#x435]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x43c][#x438]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x43c][#x438] [#x443]
[#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x43e][#x439] [#x438][#x437]
[#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445] DNC
[#x43e][#x440][#x433][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x437][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x439],
[#x432] [#x41a][#x43e][#x43c][#x438][#x442][#x435][#x442][#x435]
[#x414][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x
441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439] \xD0[#x430][#x440][#x442][#x438][#x438]
[#x421][#x428][#x410] \xD0[#x43e]
[#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x430][#x43c] [#x432]
[#x41a][#x43e]\xD0[#x433][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x441],
[#x432][#x44b]\xD0\xD0[#x44b]\xD0[#x438] [#x432]
[#x434][#x44e][#x436][#x438]\xD0[#x435]
[#x448][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x43e][#x432] [#x432] [#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x435]
[#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x439] [#x432]
[#x41a][#x43e]\xD0[#x433][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x441],
[#x43e][#x43c][#x440][#x430][#x447][#x438][#x432]
\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x435] [#x438][#x437]
\xD0[#x438][#x445]
[#x43e][#x431][#x432][#x438]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f][#x43c][#x438] [#x432]
[#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x448][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x438]
\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x439]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0[#x43a][#x43e][#x432].

[#x421][#x43e][#x432][#x441][#x435][#x43c]
\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x43a][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438]
\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x43e][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x432]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x44c]
[#x438][#x437][#x431][#x440][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442],
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD
0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x435] [#x43e][#x440][#x433][#x430]\xD0[#x44b]
[#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x44b] [#x438] [#x434][#x432][#x435]
[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x432]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x442][#x438][#x438]
[#x43e][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c]
[#x432][#x442][#x44f]\xD0[#x443][#x442][#x44b][#x43c][#x438] [#x432]
\xD0[#x435][#x43e][#x431][#x44b][#x447][#x430][#x439]\xD0[#x443][#x44e]
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x447]\xD0[#x443][#x44e]
[#x434][#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x44e] \xD0[#x43e]
[#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x443]:
[#x43a][#x430][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
[#x441][#x443][#x449][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x443][#x44e][#x442]
[#x441][#x432][#x438][#x434][#x435][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442][#x432
][#x430] [#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442]
[#x412]\xD0[#x430][#x434][#x438][#x43c][#x438][#x440]
[#x41f][#x443][#x442][#x438]\xD0 [#x432][#x44b][#x448][#x435]\xD0 [#x437][#x430]
[#x440][#x430][#x43c][#x43a][#x438] \xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x43e]
[#x448]\xD0[#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x436][#x430] [#x438]
\xD0[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44b][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x44f]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x43e][#x440][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43a][#x443][#x44e
] [#x434][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438][#x44e] [#x438]
\xD0[#x438][#x447]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x43e][#x431][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
\xD0[#x43e][#x431][#x435][#x434][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44f]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#
x445] [#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x432].

[#x41c]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x438][#x435] [#x438][#x437]
[#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x436][#x430][#x439][#x448][#x438][#x445]
\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x43e][#x449]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432]
[#x433]-[#x436][#x438] [#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0
[#x441][#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x44f][#x442][#x441][#x44f] [#x432][#x43e]
[#x43c]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x438], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x435]
[#x432][#x43c][#x435][#x448][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442][#x432
][#x43e] [#x43e][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x43e][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]
[#x441][#x435][#x440][#x44c][#x435][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
[#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]\xD0[#x438][#x435] \xD0[#x430]
[#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x44b],
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x432][#x430][#x44f] \xD0[#x440][#x438]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x43c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x438]
[#x434][#x440][#x443][#x433][#x438][#x435]
[#x444][#x430][#x43a][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b] -
[#x441]\xD0[#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x44c] [#x433]-[#x436][#x438]
[#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0 [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x438][#x434][#x430][#x442][#x430],
[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x438][#x44f] [#x441]
[#x441][#x435][#x440][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x43c] [#x435][#x435]
\xD0[#x438][#x447]\xD0[#x43e][#x439] \xD0[#x43e][#x447][#x442][#x44b],
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x447]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x437][#x430][#x44f][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
[#x414][#x438][#x440][#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x430]
[#x424][#x411][#x420] [#x414][#x436][#x435][#x439][#x43c][#x441][#x430]
[#x41a][#x43e][#x43c][#x438]
[#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x435][#x435] [#x43e][#x431][#x440][#x430][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
[#x441]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x444][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x446][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x44
c]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x438]\xD0[#x444][#x43e][#x440][#x43c][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x435][#x439] -
[#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x436][#x435]
[#x441][#x44b][#x433][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x432][#x430][#x436]\xD0[#x443][#x44e] [#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c].

[#x41d][#x435] [#x438][#x43c][#x435][#x44f]
[#x432][#x43e][#x437][#x43c][#x43e][#x436]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438]
[#x442][#x43e][#x447]\xD0[#x43e] [#x43e][#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x447]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x443]\xD0[#x44c][#x442][#x430][#x442]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439]
[#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x438], [#x43c][#x43e][#x436]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x443][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x439]
[#x432][#x44b][#x432][#x43e][#x434]:
\xD0[#x438][#x437][#x43a][#x43e][#x437][#x430][#x442][#x440][#x430][#x442]\xD0[#
x43e][#x435],
[#x432][#x44b][#x441][#x43e][#x43a][#x43e][#x44d][#x444][#x444][#x435][#x43a][#x
442][#x438][#x432]\xD0[#x43e][#x435] [#x43e][#x440][#x443][#x436][#x438][#x435],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x435]
[#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x44f]
[#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x44b][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x430] \xD0[#x430]
[#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x430][#x445] [#x43e][#x442]
[#x423][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x438]\xD0[#x44b] [#x434][#x43e]
[#x415][#x432][#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x44b] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x430][#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x43e] \xD0[#x430]
[#x421][#x43e][#x435][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x428][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x44b],
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x438][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x44f]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x443][#x448][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#
x44b][#x439] [#x44d][#x444][#x444][#x435][#x43a][#x442]. [#x414]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x438], [#x441] [#x435][#x435]
[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x430][#x431]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x44d][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x439] [#x438]
[#x44f][#x434][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]
[#x430][#x440][#x441][#x435]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x439] [#x43e]\xD0[#x430] \xD0[#x435]
[#x43c][#x43e][#x436][#x435][#x442]
[#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x437][#x43e][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x43a][#x440][#x43e][#x43c][#x435] [#x43a][#x430][#x43a] [#x432]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x430][#x441][#x448][#x442][#x430][#x431]\xD0[
#x43e][#x439] [#x432][#x43e][#x439]\xD0[#x435],
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x440][#x443][#x436][#x438][#x435]
[#x43e][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c]
[#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x44b][#x43c]
[#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x448][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]:
\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x433][#x43e][#x435],
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443][#x441][#x43c][#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x435][#x442
][#x44c] \xD0[#x440][#x438][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x433][#x43e] [#x438]\xD0[#x438]
[#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x443][#x436][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x442][#x440][#x443][#x434]\xD0[#x43e].

"[#x41d][#x438] [#x443] [#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x43e] \xD0[#x435]
[#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x436]\xD0[#x43e] [#x431][#x44b][#x442][#x44c]
\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430][#x43a][#x438][#x445]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x439]," -
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0
[#x410][#x434][#x43c][#x438][#x440][#x430]\xD0 [#x41c][#x430][#x439][#x43a]\xD0
[#x421]. [#x420][#x43e][#x434][#x436][#x435][#x440][#x441],
[#x434][#x438][#x440][#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x43e][#x440]
[#x41d][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43
e] [#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x430]
[#x431][#x435][#x437][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438]
[#x438]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x443][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x439]
[#x41a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x435][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441
][#x43a][#x438][#x43c]
[#x41a][#x43e][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435][#
x43c] [#x421][#x428][#x410] \xD0[#x430]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x444][#x435][#x440][#x435]\xD0[#x446][#x438][#x438],
[#x441][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x44f][#x432][#x448][#x435][#x439][#x441][#x
44f] \xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x435]
[#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x432]. "[#x42d][#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x435] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e] [#x447][#x442][#x43e]-[#x442][#x43e],
[#x441][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434]\xD0[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x435]\xD0\
xD0[#x43e], [#x44d][#x442][#x43e] \xD0[#x435] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x447][#x435][#x43c]-[#x442][#x43e],
[#x441][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x430][#x439]\xD0[#x43e], [#x44d][#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x435] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x430] [#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x44c],
[#x438][#x437][#x431][#x440][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x430][#x44f]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x438][#x437][#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e]," -
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x436][#x430]\xD0 [#x43e]\xD0.
"[#x42d][#x442][#x43e] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x43e][#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]
[#x443][#x441][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x435][#x43c]
[#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x433][#x43e][#x441][#x443][#x434][#x430][#x440][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x430]
[#x441] [#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e]
[#x434][#x43e][#x431][#x438][#x442][#x44c][#x441][#x44f]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x43a][#x440][#x435][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x44d][#x444][#x444][#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x430]."

[#x412] [#x434][#x443][#x448][#x430][#x445] \xD0[#x44e][#x434][#x435][#x439],
[#x447][#x44c][#x438]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c][#x43c][#x430] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438]
[#x443][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x44b], [#x44d][#x442][#x430]
\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x430][#x44f] [#x444][#x43e][#x440][#x43c][#x430]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439]
[#x434][#x438][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x441][#x438][#x438]
[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432][#x438]\xD0[#x430] [#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434]
[#x43e][#x442] [#x448][#x43e][#x43a][#x430] [#x438]
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x430]
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x448][#x43e][#x439] [#x432][#x440][#x435][#x434]
[#x438][#x445]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x444][#x435][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x44
c]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x434][#x435][#x44f][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438].
[#x41d][#x438][#x440][#x430] [#x422][#x44d]\xD0[#x434][#x435]\xD0,
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442]
[#x426][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x440][#x430]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x433][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x441][#x430]
[#x421][#x428][#x410] [#x438] [#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0 [#x438][#x437]
[#x43a]\xD0[#x44e][#x447][#x435][#x432][#x44b][#x445]
[#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432]
[#x433]-[#x436][#x438] [#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0,
[#x432][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x435][#x442],
[#x43a][#x430][#x43a] [#x43e]\xD0[#x430] [#x432][#x43e][#x448]\xD0[#x430]
[#x432] [#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
\xD0[#x44e][#x434][#x44c][#x43c][#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x43e][#x444][#x438][#x441] [#x425][#x438]\xD0\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x438]
[#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0 [#x438]
[#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x44b][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x430]
[#x447][#x443][#x432][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e]
[#x433]\xD0[#x443][#x431][#x43e][#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x443]\xD0[#x438][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f],
[#x443][#x432][#x438][#x434][#x435][#x432] [#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x435]
\xD0[#x438][#x446][#x43e] \xD0[#x430]
[#x44d][#x43a][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x430][#x445]
[#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x432][#x438][#x437][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x432],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
[#x43e][#x431][#x43e][#x437][#x440][#x435][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x438
] [#x43e][#x431][#x441][#x443][#x436][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
"[#x443][#x442][#x435][#x447][#x43a][#x443]" [#x438][#x437] [#x435][#x435]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x438], [#x432]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x439] [#x43e]\xD0[#x430]
\xD0[#x430][#x437][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x430]
[#x438]\xD0[#x441][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x43a][#x442][#x44b] [#x433]-[#x436][#x438]
[#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0
[#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x438][#x43c][#x438] [#x43e][#x442]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x442][#x438][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]."
"[#x42d][#x442][#x43e] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e] [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x435][#x436][#x435][#x434]\xD0[#x435][#x432]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x443][#x434][#x430][#x440] \xD0[#x438][#x436][#x435]
\xD0[#x43e][#x44f][#x441][#x430],"
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x430] [#x433]-[#x436][#x430]
[#x422][#x44d]\xD0[#x434][#x435]\xD0. "[#x42d][#x442][#x43e]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e] [#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x44b][#x43c]
[#x443][#x436][#x430][#x441]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]
[#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x44b][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435][#x43c] [#x432]
[#x43c][#x43e][#x435][#x439] [#x436][#x438][#x437]\xD0[#x438]."

[#x421][#x43e][#x435][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x428][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x44b] [#x442][#x43e][#x436][#x435]
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x438]\xD0[#x438]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x443][#x434][#x430][#x440][#x44b]. [#x418]
[#x432] \xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x448][#x435][#x434][#x448][#x438][#x435]
[#x434][#x435][#x441][#x44f][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x435][#x442][#x438][#x44f]
[#x426][#x420][#x423] [#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44b][#x442][#x43a][#x438]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x440][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x438][#x437][#x431][#x438][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#
x435] \xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x446][#x435][#x441][#x441][#x44b] [#x432]
[#x434][#x440][#x443][#x433][#x438][#x445]
[#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x430][#x445].
[#x41e][#x434]\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x43e]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x44f]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x430]
[#x432][#x441][#x435] [#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x448][#x435]
[#x432][#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x440][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430][#x435][#x442][#
x441][#x44f] [#x432][#x441][#x435][#x43c]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x43c]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e][#x43c] [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
[#x441][#x43e][#x431][#x44b][#x442][#x438][#x435],
\xD0[#x435][#x441][#x443][#x449][#x435][#x435]
[#x441][#x435][#x440][#x44c][#x435][#x437]\xD0[#x443][#x44e]
[#x443][#x433][#x440][#x43e][#x437][#x443]. [#x417][#x430]
[#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x438][#x43c]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x43c][#x435][#x447][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44
b][#x43c]
[#x438][#x441][#x43a]\xD0[#x44e][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435][#x43c]:
[#x413]-\xD0 [#x422][#x440][#x430][#x43c]\xD0
[#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x433]
[#x432][#x44b][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x44b]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD
0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x441][#x442][#x432],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x43c][#x438] [#x43e]\xD0
[#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x440][#x43e] [#x431][#x443][#x434][#x435][#x442]
[#x440][#x443][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x43a][#x430][#x43a] "[#x441][#x43c][#x435][#x448]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c][#x438]",
\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x438][#x432][#x430][#x44f],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440] [#x43c][#x43e][#x433]
[#x431][#x44b][#x442][#x44c]
[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x446][#x435][#x43c],
[#x438]\xD0[#x438] [#x43a][#x438][#x442][#x430][#x439][#x446][#x435][#x43c],
\xD0[#x43e] [#x43e][#x431] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x43c] "[#x43e]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44f][#x442][#x438][#x44f] \xD0[#x435]
[#x438][#x43c][#x435][#x44e][#x442]". [#x413]-\xD0
[#x422][#x440][#x430][#x43c]\xD0 [#x443]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x430]\xD0
[#x438][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x440][#x430][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x433]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x438][#x44f]
[#x43c][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x443]
[#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x430][#x43c][#x438]
[#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e],
\xD0[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x435][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x44f]
\xD0[#x438] [#x413]-\xD0 [#x41f][#x443][#x442][#x438]\xD0
\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x43e][#x447][#x44c] [#x435][#x43c][#x443] [#x432]
[#x438][#x437][#x431][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x438] \xD0[#x430]
\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430]. [#x412][#x43e]
[#x432][#x442][#x43e][#x440]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]
[#x43e][#x444][#x438][#x446][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#
x44c]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442][#x432][#
x430] [#x44d][#x445][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x437][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x44c] \xD0[#x430]
\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x43c][#x435][#x448][#x43a][#x438]
[#x422][#x440][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430].

«[#x42d][#x442][#x430] [#x438][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x438][#x44f]
[#x441][#x43e] "[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x430][#x43c][#x438]"
\xD0[#x43e][#x445][#x43e][#x436][#x430] \xD0[#x430]
[#x431][#x430]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x443][#x44e]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x43a][#x443]
[#x43c][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x443]
[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x43c
][#x438] [#x441][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x438][#x43a][#x430][#x43c][#x438]
[#x437][#x430] [#x441][#x444][#x435][#x440][#x44b]
[#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]\xC2,
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x430]\xD0[#x430] [#x432] Facebook
[#x41c][#x430][#x440][#x438][#x44f]
[#x417][#x430][#x445][#x430][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x430],
[#x43e][#x444][#x438][#x446][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#
x44c] [#x41c][#x418][#x414] [#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x438].

[#x412] \xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x448][#x435][#x434][#x448][#x438][#x439]
[#x443][#x438][#x43a][#x435]\xD0[#x434]
[#x447][#x435][#x442][#x44b][#x440][#x435]
[#x441][#x435]\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x430], [#x434][#x432][#x430]
[#x420][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x446][#x43
0] [#x438] [#x434][#x432][#x430]
[#x414][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x430]
[#x43e][#x431][#x44a][#x435][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b] \xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x440][#x430][#x441][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#
x435], \xD0[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e]
[#x438][#x433]\xD0[#x43e][#x440][#x438][#x440][#x443][#x44f]
[#x441][#x43a][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435
] [#x437][#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
[#x433]-\xD0[#x430] [#x422][#x440][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430].

"[#x414][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x44b] [#x438]
[#x420][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x446][#x44
b] [#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x436]\xD0[#x44b]
[#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x432][#x43c][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x435] [#x438] \xD0[#x43e][#x434]
[#x44e][#x440][#x438][#x441][#x434][#x438][#x43a][#x446][#x438][#x435][#x439]
[#x41a][#x43e]\xD0[#x433][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x441][#x430] [#x441]
[#x442][#x435][#x43c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b]
[#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x44b][#x43c]
[#x442][#x449][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]
[#x43e][#x431][#x440][#x430][#x437][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x440][#x430][#x441][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c
] [#x44d][#x442][#x438] \xD0[#x435][#x434][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x438]\xD0[#x446][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x44b] [#x438]
[#x432][#x44b][#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x43a][#x430][#x440][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x440][#x435][#x448][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f] [#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x440][#x430][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#
x438][#x44f] [#x438] [#x437][#x430][#x449][#x438][#x442][#x44b] [#x43e][#x442]
[#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x435][#x439][#x448][#x438][#x445]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a]",
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x441][#x435]\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b] [#x414][#x436][#x43e]\xD0
[#x41c][#x430][#x43a][#x43a][#x435][#x439]\xD0,
[#x41b][#x438]\xD0[#x434][#x441][#x438]
[#x413][#x440][#x44d][#x445][#x435][#x43c], [#x427][#x430][#x43a]
[#x428][#x443][#x43c][#x435][#x440] [#x438] [#x414][#x436][#x435][#x43a]
[#x420][#x438][#x434].

"[#x41a] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x43c][#x443]
[#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x443] \xD0[#x435]
[#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x436]\xD0[#x43e] [#x431][#x44b][#x442][#x44c]
[#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x435][#x43
3][#x43e] \xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x430]", -
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x438] [#x43e]\xD0[#x438].
"[#x421][#x442][#x430][#x432][#x43a][#x438]
[#x441]\xD0[#x438][#x448][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x432][#x44b][#x441][#x43e][#x43a][#x438] [#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
\xD0[#x430][#x448][#x435][#x439] [#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x44b]".

[#x41c][#x418][#x428][#x415][#x41d][#x42c] [#x414][#x41b][#x42f]
[#x412][#x417][#x41b][#x41e][#x41c][#x41e][#x412]

[#x412] \xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x435]
[#x448][#x442][#x430][#x431]-[#x43a][#x432][#x430][#x440][#x442][#x438][#x440][#
x44b] DNC \xD0[#x43e][#x434]
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x448][#x443][#x449][#x438][#x43c]
\xD0[#x43e][#x440][#x442][#x440][#x435][#x442][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x411][#x430][#x440][#x430][#x43a][#x430] [#x41e][#x431][#x430][#x43c][#x44b]
[#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x438][#x442]
[#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x44f][#x440][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x439]
[#x448][#x43a][#x430][#x444] 1960-[#x445] [#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x43e][#x432],
\xD0[#x430] \xD0[#x438][#x436]\xD0[#x435][#x43c]
[#x432][#x44b][#x434][#x432][#x438][#x436]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c]
[#x44f][#x449][#x438][#x43a][#x435]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x433][#x43e] \xD0[#x435]
[#x445][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x435][#x442]
[#x440][#x443][#x447][#x43a][#x438]. [#x422][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e]
[#x433][#x430][#x437][#x435][#x442]\xD0[#x430][#x44f]
[#x441][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x44c][#x44f] [#x432]
[#x440][#x430][#x43c][#x43e][#x447][#x43a][#x435],
[#x432][#x438][#x441][#x44f][#x449][#x430][#x44f] \xD0[#x430]
[#x441][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x435] [#x434][#x430][#x435][#x442]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x43
5] [#x43e] [#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x438]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x443][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x440][#x435][#x432][#x448][#x435][#x433][#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x43c][#x435][#x442][#x430]
[#x43e][#x444][#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x43c][#x435][#x431][#x435]\xD0[#x438].

"[#x41e][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][
#x439] [#x441][#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x443][#x434]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x436][#x431][#x44b]
[#x431][#x435][#x437][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438]
[#x420][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43
a][#x43e][#x439] \xD0[#x430][#x440][#x442][#x438][#x438] -
[#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0 [#x438][#x437] \xD0[#x44f][#x442][#x438]
[#x430][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
\xD0[#x43e] [#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x443] [#x43e]
\xD0[#x435][#x437][#x430][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x448][#x43a][#x435]", -
[#x433]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x438][#x442]
[#x437][#x430][#x433][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x43a]
[#x441][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x44c][#x438] [#x411][#x43e][#x431][#x430]
[#x412][#x443][#x434][#x432][#x430][#x440][#x434][#x430] [#x438]
[#x41a][#x430][#x440]\xD0[#x430]
[#x411][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x441][#x442][#x430][#x439]\xD0[#x430] \xD0[#x430]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x432][#x43e][#x439] \xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x435]
"Washington Post" o[#x442] 19 [#x438][#x44e]\xD0[#x44f] 1972
[#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x430].

[#x42d]\xD0[#x434][#x440][#x44e] [#x411][#x440][#x430][#x443]\xD0,
[#x434][#x438][#x440][#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x43e][#x440]
[#x43e][#x442][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430]
[#x442][#x435][#x445]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x438][#x439] DNC,
[#x435][#x43c][#x443] 37, [#x438] [#x43e]\xD0
[#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x441][#x44f] [#x43c]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
\xD0[#x43e][#x437][#x436][#x435] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x430]. [#x41d][#x43e]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430] [#x43e]\xD0 \xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0
[#x433][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x44c][#x441][#x44f] [#x43a]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x43
c][#x443] [#x446][#x438][#x43a]\xD0[#x443] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x430], [#x43e]\xD0
[#x445][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x448][#x43e]
[#x441][#x43e][#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x432][#x430]\xD0, [#x447][#x442][#x43e] DNC
[#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x430] [#x43c][#x43e][#x436][#x435][#x442]
[#x441][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x43e][#x431][#x44a][#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x43e][#x43c] [#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x449][#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432].

[#x411][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x442][#x440][#x435][#x43c]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x43e][#x431][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x447][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
\xD0[#x430][#x434][#x435][#x436]\xD0[#x443][#x44e]
[#x437][#x430][#x449][#x438][#x442][#x443] DNC [#x43e][#x442]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]\xD0[#x43
e][#x432][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f], [#x430] [#x437][#x430][#x442][#x435][#x43c]
\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x430]
[#x440][#x435][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x44c], [#x433]-\xD0
[#x411][#x440][#x430][#x443]\xD0 [#x438] [#x435][#x433][#x43e]
\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x44e][#x442]: DNC -
\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a
][#x430][#x44f]
[#x43e][#x440][#x433][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x437][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x44f],
[#x437][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x441][#x44f][#x449][#x430][#x44f] [#x43e][#x442]
\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x43e][#x432],
[#x431][#x44e][#x434][#x436][#x435][#x442] [#x435][#x435]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x436][#x431][#x44b]
[#x431][#x435][#x437][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438]
[#x441][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x44f][#x435][#x442]
[#x442][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e]
[#x43a][#x440][#x443]\xD0[#x438][#x446][#x443] [#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x435][#x43e][#x431][#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x438][#x43c][#x43e]
[#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x440]\xD0[#x43e][#x440][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x438]
[#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x430].

"[#x423] \xD0[#x430][#x441] \xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430]
\xD0[#x435] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x43e][#x447]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x432],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b] [#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x442][#x43e], [#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x435][#x43e][#x431][#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x438][#x43c][#x43e]", -
[#x433][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x440][#x438][#x442] [#x433]-\xD0
[#x411][#x440][#x430][#x443]\xD0.

[#x423] DNC [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x430]
[#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x430][#x440][#x442]\xD0[#x430][#x44f]
[#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x430]
[#x444][#x438]\xD0[#x44c][#x442][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
\xD0[#x43e][#x447][#x442][#x44b] [#x43e][#x442]
[#x441]\xD0[#x430][#x43c][#x430],
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434]\xD0[#x430][#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x4
30][#x44f] [#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x436][#x435] [#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x431]\xD0[#x43e][#x43a][#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x43a][#x438]
[#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a]
"[#x444][#x438][#x448][#x438]\xD0[#x433]-[#x43c][#x43e][#x448][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x
438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432]" [#x438]
[#x432][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x433][#x440][#x430][#x43c][#x43c],
[#x437][#x430][#x43c][#x430][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD
0\xD0[#x44b][#x445] \xD0[#x43e][#x434]
\xD0[#x435][#x433][#x438][#x442][#x438][#x43c]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f].
[#x41e][#x434]\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x43e], [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x436][#x434][#x430][#x44e][#x442
] [#x432]\xD0[#x443][#x442][#x440][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x43c][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x443][#x43c][#x44b] DNC,
[#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x44b]
[#x432][#x437][#x44f]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c] [#x437][#x430] DNC, [#x443]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x438][#x442][#x435][#x442][#x430] \xD0[#x435]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x432][#x438]\xD0[#x443][#x442][#x44b][#x445]
[#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c],
[#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x43e][#x442][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x436][#x438][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x43e][#x437][#x440][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44
b][#x439] \xD0[#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x43a]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x439].

[#x413]-\xD0 [#x422][#x44d][#x43c][#x438]\xD0,
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x439]
\xD0[#x440][#x438]\xD0[#x44f]\xD0 [#x437][#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x43a]
[#x43e][#x442] [#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430] [#x424][#x411][#x420]
[#x438] [#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x430][#x435][#x442]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434] \xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c]
[#x433]-\xD0[#x430] [#x411][#x440][#x430][#x443]\xD0[#x430], \xD0[#x430]
[#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x43e][#x43c] [#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x435] \xD0[#x435]
[#x44f][#x432]\xD0[#x44f][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
[#x448][#x442][#x430][#x442]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]
[#x441][#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x443][#x434]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c] DNC.
[#x41e]\xD0 [#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x430][#x435][#x442] [#x432]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x440][#x44f][#x434]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x444][#x438][#x440][#x43c][#x435],
[#x431][#x430][#x437][#x438][#x440][#x443][#x44e][#x449][#x435][#x439][#x441][#x
44f] [#x432] [#x427][#x438][#x43a][#x430][#x433][#x43e]. [#x41d][#x430]
[#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x441][#x43e][#x431][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
[#x443][#x441][#x43c][#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x440][#x435][#x448][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435], [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x435][#x430][#x433][#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x430][#x
442][#x44c] \xD0[#x430]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x43
8][#x435], [#x438] [#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x435]
[#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e], [#x440][#x435][#x448][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0 \xD0[#x438] [#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x43a],
\xD0[#x43e][#x437][#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x439]
\xD0[#x430]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x43c][#x443][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x43e][#x440] DNC
[#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x43e][#x43c] [#x424][#x411][#x420],
[#x438]\xD0[#x438] \xD0[#x435][#x442].

"[#x424][#x411][#x420] [#x441][#x447][#x438][#x442][#x430][#x435][#x442],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x432] [#x441][#x435][#x442][#x438] DNC
[#x435][#x441][#x442][#x44c] \xD0[#x43e]
[#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x439]\xD0[#x435][#x439] [#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x435]
[#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0
"[#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x43c][#x435][#x442][#x438][#x44
0][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x439]", [#x442].[#x435].
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x433][#x448][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x44f
]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44e]
[#x438][#x437][#x432]\xD0[#x435],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440], [#x438]
[#x424][#x411][#x420] [#x445][#x43e][#x447][#x435][#x442]
[#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x44c],
[#x438][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x43e] \xD0[#x438]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e] DNC, [#x438] [#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x438]
[#x438][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x43e], [#x442][#x43e]
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] DNC
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434]\xD0[#x440][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430][#x435][#x44
2] [#x432] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x439] [#x441][#x432][#x44f][#x437][#x438]",
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x430]\xD0 [#x433]-\xD0
[#x422][#x44d][#x43c][#x438]\xD0 [#x432]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x436][#x435][#x431]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x435] [#x43e]
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x438][#x445]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x442][#x430][#x445] [#x441]
[#x424][#x411][#x420]. [#x41e]\xD0 [#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x436][#x435]
[#x434][#x43e][#x431][#x430][#x432][#x438]\xD0:
"[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x446][#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442]
[#x440][#x435][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0
[#x43c]\xD0[#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x438][#x442][#x44c] [#x437][#x430]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]
[#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c]
[#x432][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x433][#x440][#x430][#x43c][#x43c][#x44b],
[#x438][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x439] [#x432]
[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x445
] [#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x436][#x431][#x430][#x445]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x43a][#x438] [#x438]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x431][#x435][#x437][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x441
]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438] \xD0[#x43e][#x434]
\xD0[#x430][#x437][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435][#x43c] "Dukes".

[#x41e][#x442][#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442][#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x435][#x43c][#x430]
[#x437][#x430][#x43a]\xD0[#x44e][#x447][#x430][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
[#x432] [#x442][#x43e][#x43c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x446][#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442]
[#x425][#x43e][#x43a][#x438]\xD0[#x441] \xD0[#x435]
[#x44f][#x432][#x438]\xD0[#x441][#x44f] \xD0[#x438][#x447]\xD0[#x43e] [#x432]
[#x43e][#x444][#x438][#x441] DNC . [#x412] [#x442][#x43e][#x436][#x435]
[#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x44f] [#x43e]\xD0 \xD0[#x435]
[#x43c][#x43e][#x433]
[#x438][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x438][#x442][#x44c] [#x438][#x445]
[#x43e][#x431] [#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438]
\xD0[#x43e] [#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x43e][#x447][#x442][#x435], [#x442].[#x43a]. [#x44d][#x442][#x43e]
[#x43c][#x43e][#x433]\xD0[#x43e] [#x441][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x43
8][#x435][#x43c] [#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x43c] [#x43e]
[#x442][#x43e][#x43c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x424][#x411][#x420]
[#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x435][#x442] [#x43e][#x431] [#x438][#x445]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x438]
[#x432] [#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x443].

[#x41f][#x435][#x440][#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43
e][#x435]
[#x441][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x44b],
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
[#x433]-\xD0[#x43e][#x43c] [#x422][#x44d][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c],
\xD0[#x435] [#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430][#x43a][#x438][#x445]
[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x443]\xD0[#x44c][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x43e][#x432],
\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x443] [#x43e]\xD0
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x437][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x44f]
[#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x438][#x43c] [#x43e][#x442]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x442][#x438][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x438]\xD0[#x441][#x442][#x440][#x443][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430][#x440][#
x438][#x435][#x43c] [#x438] [#x434][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c][#x438],
\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x43e][#x447]\xD0[#x44b][#
x43c][#x438] [#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x43a][#x438]
[#x437][#x430][#x434][#x430][#x447][#x438] \xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x43e][#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x443] [#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x438].
[#x41f][#x43e][#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x43c][#x443],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x446][#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442]
[#x425][#x43e][#x43a][#x438]\xD0[#x441] [#x437][#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x438]\xD0
[#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x430] [#x432]
[#x43e][#x43a][#x442][#x44f][#x431][#x440][#x435] [#x438]
[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x44f]\xD0 [#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x422][#x44d][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x430]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f] \xD0[#x430]
[#x430][#x432][#x442][#x43e][#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x442][#x447][#x438][#x
43a][#x435] [#x441] \xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x44c][#x431][#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x437][#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x435][#x43c][#x443], "[#x42f] \xD0[#x435] [#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0
[#x435][#x43c][#x443]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x437][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x432][#x430][#x442][#
x44c], \xD0[#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x43c][#x443] [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x43c]\xD0[#x435] \xD0[#x435][#x447][#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e] [#x435][#x43c][#x443]
[#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x436][#x438][#x442][#x44c]," -
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x430]\xD0 [#x422][#x44d][#x43c][#x438]\xD0 [#x432]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x436][#x435][#x431]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x435].

[#x412] \xD0[#x43e][#x44f][#x431][#x440][#x435]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x446][#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442]
[#x425][#x43e][#x43a][#x438]\xD0[#x441]
\xD0[#x43e][#x437][#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x438]\xD0,
[#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x438][#x442][#x44c] [#x435][#x449][#x435]
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x435]
[#x443][#x433][#x440][#x43e][#x436][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x443][#x44e]
\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x44c]. [#x41e][#x434][#x438]\xD0
[#x438][#x437]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x432]
[#x432] [#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x435] DNC
"\xD0[#x43e][#x437][#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x438]\xD0
[#x434][#x43e][#x43c][#x43e][#x439]", \xD0[#x43e][#x434]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43c][#x43e][#x43c]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x440][#x430][#x437][#x443][#x43c][#x435][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#
x430][#x441][#x44c] [#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x44f]",
[#x433][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x440][#x438][#x442][#x441][#x44f] [#x432]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x436][#x435][#x431]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x435]
[#x422][#x44d][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x430], [#x433][#x434][#x435]
[#x438][#x43c][#x435][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x44f] [#x432]
[#x432][#x438][#x434][#x443]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x433][#x440][#x430][#x43c][#x43c]\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
[#x43e][#x431][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x435]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x44b]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x438]\xD0[#x444][#x43e][#x440][#x43c][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x44e] [#x432]
[#x41c][#x43e][#x441][#x43a][#x432][#x443].
"[#x421]\xD0[#x435][#x446][#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442]
[#x425][#x43e][#x43a][#x438]\xD0[#x441]
[#x434][#x43e][#x431][#x430][#x432][#x438]\xD0, [#x447][#x442][#x43e],
\xD0[#x43e] [#x43c]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44e] [#x424][#x411][#x420],
[#x44d][#x442][#x438] "[#x437][#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x43a][#x438]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43c][#x43e][#x439]" [#x43c][#x43e][#x433][#x443][#x442]
[#x431][#x44b][#x442][#x44c]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x438],
[#x43e][#x441][#x443][#x449][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432]\xD0[#x44f][#x435][#x43c
][#x43e][#x439] [#x43a][#x430][#x43a][#x438][#x43c]-[#x442][#x43e]
[#x433][#x43e][#x441][#x443][#x434][#x430][#x440][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e][#x
43c]".

[#x413]-\xD0 [#x411][#x440][#x430][#x443]\xD0 [#x437]\xD0[#x430]\xD0,
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x433]-\xD0 [#x422][#x44d][#x43c][#x438]\xD0,
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x439]
[#x43e][#x442][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x44f] [#x43e][#x442]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430][#x440][#x438][#x435][#x432
] \xD0[#x43e] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x43c][#x443]
[#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x443],
\xD0[#x440][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430]\xD0
[#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x444][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x437][#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x43a][#x438] [#x438][#x437] [#x424][#x411][#x420].
[#x41d][#x43e] [#x43e]\xD0 [#x441][#x430][#x43c] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0
[#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x44f][#x442]
[#x440][#x435][#x448][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435][#x43c]
[#x434][#x440][#x443][#x433][#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x435][#x43c][#x44b]:
[#x441][#x432][#x438][#x434][#x435][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442][#x432
][#x430][#x43c][#x438],
[#x443][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x43c][#x
438] \xD0[#x430] [#x442][#x43e], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x441][#x435]\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x43e][#x440] [#x43e][#x442]
[#x448][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x430]
[#x412][#x435][#x440][#x43c][#x43e]\xD0[#x442] [#x411][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x438]
[#x421][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x435][#x440][#x441],
[#x433]\xD0[#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x43a][#x443][#x440][#x435]\xD0[#x442] [#x433]-[#x436][#x438]
[#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0 [#x432]
\xD0[#x430][#x433][#x435][#x440][#x435]
[#x414][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x43e][#x432],
\xD0[#x435][#x437][#x430][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x438]\xD0 [#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0
[#x43a] [#x434][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c] \xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44e] [#x435][#x435]
[#x43a][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x438].

[#x413]-[#x436][#x430]
[#x412][#x430][#x441][#x441][#x435][#x440][#x43c][#x430]\xD0
[#x428][#x443]\xD0[#x44c][#x446] [#x438] [#x42d][#x439][#x43c][#x438]
[#x414][#x44d][#x441][#x438], [#x432] [#x442][#x43e]
[#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x44f]
[#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x435]
\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x44b],
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435]\xD
0\xD0[#x43e],
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x435][#x434][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x438] \xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430] DNC,
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x438]\xD0[#x438] [#x432]
[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x435][#x440][#x432][#x44c][#x44e], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x438] [#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x430] [#x438][#x437] \xD0[#x438][#x445]
\xD0[#x435] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x430]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x430] [#x43e]
[#x440][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x438][#x445]
[#x441][#x438][#x433]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x430][#x445],
[#x443][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x445]
\xD0[#x430] [#x432][#x43e][#x437][#x43c][#x43e][#x436]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x437][#x430][#x445][#x432][#x430][#x442] [#x438][#x445]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x441][#x435][#x442][#x438] [#x438][#x437][#x432]\xD0[#x435].

[#x428][#x43e]\xD0 [#x413][#x435]\xD0[#x440][#x438], [#x432]
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x435] [#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x44f]
[#x432][#x43e][#x437][#x433]\xD0[#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x44f][#x432][#x448][#x438][#
x439] [#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x436][#x431][#x443]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x431][#x435][#x437][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x441
]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438] [#x424][#x411][#x420], \xD0[#x44b]\xD0[#x435]
[#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430][#x435][#x442] \xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430] CrowdStrike
Services, [#x444][#x438][#x440][#x43c][#x443],
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x446][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x437][#x438][#x440][#x443][#
x44e][#x449][#x443][#x44e][#x441][#x44f] \xD0[#x430]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x431][#x435][#x437][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x441
]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438] [#x438]
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x44f][#x442][#x443][#x44e] DNC [#x432]
[#x430]\xD0[#x440][#x435]\xD0[#x435], [#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0,
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x43e]\xD0 [#x431][#x44b]\xD0
[#x448][#x43e][#x43a][#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0,
[#x443][#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x432], [#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x424][#x411][#x420]
\xD0[#x435]
[#x443][#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x443][#x436][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c]
\xD0[#x43e][#x437][#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x443]-[#x442][#x43e] [#x438][#x437]
[#x440][#x443][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x430]
DNC [#x438]\xD0[#x438] \xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430] [#x432]
[#x448][#x442][#x430][#x431]-[#x43a][#x432][#x430][#x440][#x442][#x438][#x440][#
x443] \xD0[#x430][#x440][#x442][#x438][#x438],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b]
[#x437][#x430][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
\xD0[#x440][#x438]\xD0[#x44f][#x442][#x44c] [#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x435]
[#x440][#x435][#x448][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x44b].

"[#x412][#x435][#x434][#x44c] [#x440][#x435][#x447][#x44c] \xD0[#x435]
[#x438][#x434][#x435][#x442] [#x43e][#x431] [#x43e][#x444][#x438][#x441][#x435],
[#x437][#x430][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x44f]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x43c]
[#x433][#x434][#x435]-[#x442][#x43e] [#x432] \xD0[#x435][#x441][#x430][#x445]
[#x41c][#x43e]\xD0[#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x44b]", -
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0 [#x433]-\xD0
[#x413][#x435]\xD0[#x440][#x438]. "[#x41c][#x44b]
[#x433][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x440][#x438][#x43c] [#x43e][#x431]
[#x43e][#x444][#x438][#x441][#x435] [#x432]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x435] [#x43e][#x442]
[#x437][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x44f] [#x424][#x411][#x420]".

"[#x42d][#x442][#x43e] [#x432][#x435][#x434][#x44c] \xD0[#x435]
[#x43a][#x430][#x43a][#x430][#x44f]-[#x442][#x43e]
[#x441][#x435][#x43c][#x435][#x439]\xD0[#x430][#x44f]
[#x437][#x430][#x431][#x435][#x433][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x43a][#x430]
[#x438]\xD0[#x438]
[#x431][#x438][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43e][#x442][#x435][#x43a][#x430] \xD0[#x430]
[#x432][#x430][#x448][#x435][#x439] [#x443]\xD0[#x438][#x446][#x435],
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x430][#x438][#x432][#x430][#x436]\xD0[#x435][#x439][#x448][#x430][#x44f]
[#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442][#x44c]
[#x438]\xD0[#x444][#x440][#x430][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x443][#x43a][#x442][#x443
][#x440][#x44b] [#x421][#x428][#x410], [#x442].[#x43a]. [#x43e]\xD0[#x430]
[#x438][#x43c][#x435][#x435][#x442]
\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435]\x
D0\xD0[#x43e][#x435] [#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x448][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x43a]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x43
c][#x443] \xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x446][#x435][#x441][#x441][#x443],
\xD0[#x430][#x448][#x438][#x43c]
[#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]
[#x447][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430][#x43c],
\xD0[#x430][#x448][#x435][#x43c][#x443]
[#x437][#x430][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\x
D0[#x43e][#x43c][#x443] \xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x446][#x435][#x441][#x441][#x443]
[#x438] [#x43a] \xD0[#x430][#x448][#x438][#x43c]
[#x43e][#x440][#x433][#x430]\xD0[#x430][#x43c]
[#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x4
39] [#x432]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x442][#x438]", -
[#x434][#x43e][#x431][#x430][#x432][#x438]\xD0 [#x43e]\xD0. "[#x41f][#x43e]
[#x43c][#x43e][#x435][#x43c][#x443] [#x43c]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44e],
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e]
[#x441][#x435][#x440][#x44c][#x435][#x437]\xD0[#x435][#x439][#x448][#x438][#x439
] [#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441],
[#x438][#x43c][#x435][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x439]
[#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x448][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435] [#x43a]
[#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x44b][#x43c]
[#x432][#x44b][#x441][#x43e][#x43a][#x438][#x43c]
[#x441][#x444][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x43c], [#x438] [#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x438]
[#x447][#x435][#x440][#x435][#x437] \xD0[#x430][#x440][#x443]
[#x43c][#x435][#x441][#x44f][#x446][#x435][#x432] [#x43c][#x44b] \xD0[#x435]
[#x443][#x432][#x438][#x434][#x438][#x43c]
[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x443]\xD0[#x44c][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x43e][#x432],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x443]-[#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x434][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
[#x432][#x44b]\xD0[#x435][#x441][#x442][#x438] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x442]
[#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441] \xD0[#x430]
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x435]
[#x432][#x44b][#x441][#x43e][#x43a][#x438][#x439]
[#x443][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]."

[#x424][#x411][#x420]
[#x43e][#x442][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x430
][#x442][#x44c] [#x434][#x435][#x439][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x438][#x44f]
[#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x430] [#x432]
[#x441][#x432][#x44f][#x437][#x438] [#x441]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439]
[#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x43e][#x439]. "[#x424][#x411][#x420]
[#x43e][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]
[#x441][#x435][#x440][#x44c][#x435][#x437]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x438][#x442][#x441][#x44f] [#x43a]
\xD0[#x44e][#x431][#x43e][#x43c][#x443]
\xD0[#x435][#x437][#x430][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x443]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44e]
[#x432] [#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x44b]
[#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#
x43e] [#x438]\xD0[#x438] [#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x441][#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x430]", -
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x438]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x431][#x44e][#x440][#x43e] [#x432]
[#x43e][#x444][#x438][#x446][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c]
[#x437][#x430][#x44f][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x438],
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x447][#x435][#x440][#x43a][#x438][#x432][#x430][#x44f],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x44b]
"[#x431][#x443][#x434][#x443][#x442]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x436][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x44c][#x441][#x44f]
[#x438]\xD0[#x444][#x43e][#x440][#x43c][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x435][#x439]",
[#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b] \xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x43e][#x447][#x44c]
[#x436][#x435][#x440][#x442][#x432][#x430][#x43c] [#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a]
"[#x43e][#x431][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x447][#x438][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44
c]
[#x431][#x435][#x437][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x44c]
[#x438][#x445] [#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c] [#x43e][#x442]
[#x434][#x435][#x439][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x438][#x439]
\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x439][#x447][#x438][#x432][#x44b][#x445]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0\x
D0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432]".

[#x41a] \xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x443] [#x43c][#x430][#x440][#x442][#x430]
[#x433]-\xD0 [#x422][#x44d][#x43c][#x438]\xD0 [#x438] [#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x430] [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x443][#x43c] [#x434][#x432][#x430]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x430]
[#x432][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x435][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c]
[#x441]
[#x441][#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x443][#x434]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430][#x43c][#x438
] [#x424][#x411][#x420] [#x438]
[#x443][#x431][#x435][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442]
[#x425][#x43e][#x43a][#x438]\xD0[#x441] \xD0[#x430]
[#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x43e][#x43c] [#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x435]
[#x44f][#x432]\xD0[#x44f][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
[#x441][#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x443][#x434]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x444][#x435][#x434][#x435][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x436][#x431][#x44b]. [#x41d][#x43e] [#x43a]
[#x442][#x43e][#x43c][#x443] [#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x438]
[#x441][#x438][#x442][#x443][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x44f]
\xD0[#x440][#x438]\xD0[#x44f]\xD0[#x430]
[#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x448][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e]
[#x436][#x443][#x442][#x43a][#x438][#x439]
[#x43e][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x442].

[#x412][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x430][#x44f]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x430]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x432],
[#x441][#x432][#x44f][#x437][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445] [#x441]
[#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x435][#x439],
\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x430]
\xD0[#x430][#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c][#x441][#x44f]
\xD0[#x430] DNC [#x438] [#x434][#x440][#x443][#x433][#x438][#x445]
[#x438][#x433][#x440][#x43e][#x43a][#x43e][#x432] \xD0[#x430]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x435], \xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x44f][#x432]\xD0[#x44f][#x44f]
[#x43e][#x441][#x43e][#x431][#x43e][#x435]
[#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435] [#x43a]
[#x414][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43c].
[#x411][#x438]\xD0\xD0[#x438]
[#x420][#x430][#x439]\xD0[#x445][#x430][#x440][#x442],
[#x431][#x44b][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x439]
[#x440][#x435][#x433][#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x434][#x438][#x440][#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x43e][#x440] DNC,
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x439] [#x432] [#x442][#x43e]
[#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x44f]
[#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x430]\xD0 [#x432]
[#x438][#x437][#x431][#x438][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#
x43c] [#x448][#x442][#x430][#x431][#x435] [#x433]-[#x436][#x438]
[#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0,
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x438]\xD0 \xD0[#x43e]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x43e][#x447][#x442][#x435]
[#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x43
8][#x435] [#x43e][#x442] Google.

"[#x41a][#x442][#x43e]-[#x442][#x43e] [#x442][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e]
[#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x432][#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x437][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x44
1][#x44f] [#x432][#x430][#x448][#x438][#x43c]
\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x43c] [#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x432][#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x430] [#x432] [#x432][#x430][#x448]
\xD0[#x438][#x447]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x43a][#x430][#x431][#x438]\xD0[#x435][#x442] [#x432] Google",
[#x433]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x438]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435] [#x43e][#x442] 22
[#x43c][#x430][#x440][#x442][#x430]. [#x412] \xD0[#x435][#x43c]
[#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x436][#x435]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] \xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44b][#x442][#x43a][#x430]
[#x432][#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x430]
[#x43e][#x441][#x443][#x449][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432]\xD0[#x44f]\xD0[#x430][#
x441][#x44c] [#x438][#x437] [#x423][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x438]\xD0[#x44b].
"Google \xD0[#x440][#x435][#x441][#x435][#x43a] [#x44d][#x442][#x443]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44b][#x442][#x43a][#x443], [#x432][#x430][#x43c]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x443][#x435][#x442]
\xD0[#x435][#x43c][#x435][#x434]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e]
[#x438][#x437][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x442] [#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c]". [#x413]-\xD0
[#x420][#x430][#x439]\xD0[#x445][#x430][#x440][#x442] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0 [#x432]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e] [#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x44f] \xD0[#x430]
[#x413][#x430][#x432][#x430][#x439][#x44f][#x445], [#x43e]\xD0
[#x432][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x435][#x442],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] \xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x44f]\xD0
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x44e] \xD0[#x43e][#x447][#x442][#x443] [#x432] 4
[#x447][#x430][#x441][#x430] [#x443][#x442][#x440][#x430],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x44c]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f] [#x43e][#x442]
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x438][#x445] [#x43a][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x435][#x433]
\xD0[#x430] [#x412][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x447]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c]
\xD0[#x43e][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x435][#x436][#x44c][#x435]. [#x41d][#x435]
[#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x433][#x43e] [#x434][#x443][#x43c][#x430][#x44f]
\xD0[#x430][#x434] \xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x43
8][#x435][#x43c], [#x43e]\xD0 [#x43a]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]\xD0[#x443]\xD0
[#x43a]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x43a][#x443]
"[#x437][#x430][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x44c]
\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c]" [#x438],
\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e] [#x43e]\xD0
\xD0[#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x438][#x442], [#x432]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x441][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x43c]
[#x441][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x44f]\xD0[#x438][#x438],
\xD0[#x430][#x431][#x440][#x430]\xD0 \xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x44b][#x439]
\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c]. [#x422][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e]
\xD0[#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e]
[#x43c][#x435][#x441][#x44f][#x446][#x435][#x432]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x441][#x442][#x44f] [#x43e]\xD0
[#x443][#x437]\xD0[#x430]\xD0, [#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x432]
[#x442][#x43e][#x442] [#x43c][#x43e][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442] [#x43e]\xD0
[#x434][#x430]\xD0
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x43c]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x43c]
[#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0 [#x43a]
[#x443][#x447][#x435][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x438] [#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x435][#x439]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x43e][#x447][#x442][#x44b].

[#x421][#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
"[#x444][#x438][#x448][#x438]\xD0[#x433][#x43e][#x432][#x44b][#x445]"
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x439]
[#x440][#x430][#x441][#x441][#x44b]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x43c]
[#x434][#x435][#x44f][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44f][#x43c] [#x432]
[#x421][#x428][#x410], [#x432][#x43a]\xD0[#x44e][#x447][#x430][#x44f]
\xD0[#x43e][#x445][#x43e][#x436][#x435][#x435]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435],
[#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x435] 19
[#x43c][#x430][#x440][#x442][#x430] [#x433]-\xD0[#x443]
[#x41f][#x43e][#x434][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x430],
[#x433]\xD0[#x430][#x432][#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#
x43e] [#x448][#x442][#x430][#x431][#x430]
[#x425][#x438]\xD0\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x438]
[#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0.
[#x41f][#x440][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430][#x44f] [#x432][#x43e]
[#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x43e][#x433][#x440][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x439],
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x433]-\xD0[#x43e][#x43c] [#x41f][#x43e][#x434][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x430]
\xD0[#x430] [#x435][#x433][#x43e] \xD0[#x438][#x447]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x430][#x434][#x440][#x435][#x441], [#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0
[#x43a] \xD0[#x435][#x43c][#x443] [#x438][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x438] [#x438]
\xD0[#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e] [#x435][#x433][#x43e]
\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x43e][#x449]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432].
[#x41e][#x434][#x438]\xD0 [#x438][#x437] \xD0[#x438][#x445]
[#x43e][#x431][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438]\xD0
[#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435] \xD0[#x430]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x430][#x44e][#
x449][#x435][#x435]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]. [#x41e]\xD0
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435]\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432][#x438]\xD0
[#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x441][#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x443][#x434]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x443]
[#x442][#x435][#x445]\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x434][#x435][#x440][#x436][#x43a][#x438
], [#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b]
[#x443][#x431][#x435][#x434][#x438][#x442][#x44c][#x441][#x44f],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x435][#x433][#x438][#x442][#x438][#x43c]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c],
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x435] [#x447][#x435][#x43c]
[#x43a][#x442][#x43e]-\xD0[#x438][#x431][#x443][#x434][#x44c]
\xD0[#x430][#x436][#x43c][#x435][#x442] [#x43a]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x43a][#x443]
"[#x441][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x44c]
\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c]".

"[#x42d][#x442][#x43e]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
\xD0[#x435][#x433][#x438][#x442][#x438][#x43c]\xD0[#x43e][#x435]", -
[#x427][#x430][#x440]\xD0[#x44c][#x437]
[#x414][#x435]\xD0[#x430][#x432][#x430]\xD0,
[#x441][#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x443][#x434]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]
[#x438][#x437][#x431][#x438][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#
x433][#x43e] [#x448][#x442][#x430][#x431][#x430]
[#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0
[#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x442][#x438]\xD0
[#x434][#x440][#x443][#x433][#x43e][#x43c][#x443]
\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x43e][#x449]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x443] [#x433]-\xD0[#x430]
[#x41f][#x43e][#x434][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x430],
[#x437][#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x442][#x438][#x432][#x448][#x435][#x43c][#x443]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x43
8][#x435], - "[#x414][#x436][#x43e]\xD0[#x443] \xD0[#x443][#x436]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x435][#x43c][#x435][#x434]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x44c] [#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c]".

[#x41e][#x434][#x438]\xD0 [#x43a]\xD0[#x438][#x43a], [#x438]
\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435] [#x437][#x430]
[#x434][#x435][#x441][#x44f][#x442][#x43e][#x43a] \xD0[#x435][#x442]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c][#x43c][#x430],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x435] [#x433]-\xD0
[#x41f][#x43e][#x434][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x430]
[#x441][#x43e][#x445][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x438]\xD0 [#x432]
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x435][#x43c]
Gmail-[#x430][#x43a][#x43a][#x430][#x443]\xD0[#x442][#x435],
[#x432][#x441][#x435][#x433][#x43e] [#x43e][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e] 60
[#x442][#x44b][#x441][#x44f][#x447]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x439],
[#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x44b] [#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x445]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x432]. [#x412]
[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x435][#x440][#x432][#x44c][#x44e] [#x433]-\xD0
[#x414][#x435]\xD0[#x430][#x432][#x430]\xD0
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x437]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x44f], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x432][#x440][#x435][#x434]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x442] [#x43e]\xD0 [#x434][#x430]\xD0
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x435][#x433][#x430][#x43c] [#x432]
[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x443]\xD0[#x44c][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x435]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x447][#x430][#x442][#x43a][#x438]. [#x41e]\xD0
[#x437]\xD0[#x430]\xD0, [#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x430]
[#x444][#x438][#x448][#x438]\xD0[#x433]-[#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x430]
[#x438] [#x445][#x43e][#x442][#x435]\xD0
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x435][#x447][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x43e]
"\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x433][#x438][#x442][#x438][#x43c]\xD0[#x43e][#x435]"
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435].
[#x42d][#x442][#x430] [#x43e][#x448][#x438][#x431][#x43a][#x430] \xD0[#x435]
[#x434][#x430][#x435][#x442] [#x435][#x43c][#x443]
\xD0[#x43e][#x43a][#x43e][#x44f] [#x441] [#x442][#x435][#x445]
\xD0[#x43e][#x440].

[#x412] [#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x435] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x439]
[#x432][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x439] [#x432][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x43c]
[#x443][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0 [#x43a]
[#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x435]
[#x41a][#x43e][#x43c][#x438][#x442][#x435][#x442][#x430]
[#x414][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x
441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439] \xD0[#x430][#x440][#x442][#x438][#x438] \xD0[#x43e]
[#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x430][#x43c] [#x432]
[#x41a][#x43e]\xD0[#x433][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x441], [#x430]
[#x437][#x430][#x442][#x435][#x43c], [#x447][#x435][#x440][#x435][#x437]
[#x432][#x438][#x440][#x442][#x443][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x443][#x44e]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x440]\xD0[#x43e][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438][#x432]\xD0[#x443][#
x44e] [#x441][#x435][#x442][#x44c], [#x438] [#x432]
[#x433]\xD0[#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440]
[#x441][#x435][#x442][#x438] DNC.

[#x424][#x411][#x420] [#x442][#x43e][#x436][#x435]
[#x43e][#x431][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435] \xD0[#x430]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x442] [#x432][#x441]\xD0\xD0[#x435][#x441][#x43a]
[#x430][#x43a][#x442][#x438][#x432]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438] [#x438]
[#x432]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x44c]
[#x43e][#x431][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c] [#x43a]
[#x433]-\xD0[#x443] [#x422][#x44d][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x443],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x435][#x433][#x43e]. [#x410] [#x433]-\xD0 [#x422][#x44d][#x43c][#x438]\xD0
[#x432][#x441][#x435] [#x435][#x449][#x435] \xD0[#x435]
[#x432][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0 \xD0[#x440][#x438][#x447][#x438]\xD0[#x44b]
[#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x431][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x43a][#x43e][#x439][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x430
]: [#x43e]\xD0 [#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x443][#x436][#x438]\xD0,
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x438]
[#x444][#x438][#x448][#x438]\xD0[#x433]-[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x43
5]\xD0[#x438][#x439] [#x43e][#x441][#x435]\xD0[#x438] [#x432]
[#x441]\xD0[#x430][#x43c]-[#x444][#x438]\xD0[#x44c][#x442][#x440][#x430][#x445]
[#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c] DNC. [#x41d][#x43e] [#x43e]\xD0
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0, [#x447][#x442][#x43e] \xD0[#x435]
[#x432][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0
[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x439]
[#x441][#x447][#x438][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x44c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x432]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x44b] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x448][#x435]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x438][#x437][#x432]\xD0[#x435].

[#x41a] [#x441][#x435][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x435]
[#x430]\xD0[#x440][#x435]\xD0[#x44f] \xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x446]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0 [#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438][#x433]\xD0[#x443][#x442]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x433][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x441]:
[#x447][#x435][#x440][#x435][#x437] [#x441][#x435][#x43c][#x44c]
[#x43c][#x435][#x441][#x44f][#x446][#x435][#x432] \xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x435]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x432][#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x43
8][#x44f] DNC, [#x432] [#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x446][#x435]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x446][#x43e][#x432],
[#x443][#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x438]\xD0[#x430]
"\xD0[#x430][#x434][#x435][#x436]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x441]
[#x441][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x432]
[#x43c][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x438]\xD0[#x433][#x430]", -
[#x433][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x440][#x438][#x442][#x441][#x44f] [#x432]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x436][#x435][#x431]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x435]
[#x422][#x44d][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x430].

[#x41e][#x422][#x422][#x410][#x427][#x418][#x412][#x410][#x41d][#x418][#x415]
[#x422][#x410][#x41a][#x422][#x418][#x41a][#x418]
[#x421][#x41a][#x420][#x42b][#x422][#x41d][#x41e][#x421][#x422][#x418]

[#x412] [#x442][#x435][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x434][#x432][#x443][#x445]
[#x434][#x435][#x441][#x44f][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x435][#x442][#x438][#x439]
[#x421][#x428][#x410]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x43
8], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x436][#x431][#x44b
] \xD0[#x44b][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c]
[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x44b][#x435] [#x432][#x430][#x436]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x438] [#x441][#x435][#x43a][#x440][#x435][#x442]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x441][#x435][#x442][#x438] [#x421][#x428][#x410].
[#x41e][#x434]\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x43e]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x44f]\xD0[#x430][#x43c]
[#x432][#x441][#x435][#x433][#x434][#x430]
[#x443][#x434][#x430][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c]
[#x431][#x44b][#x442][#x44c] \xD0[#x430] [#x448][#x430][#x433]
[#x432]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x438].

[#x418][#x445] \xD0[#x435][#x440][#x432][#x430][#x44f]
[#x43a][#x440][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x430][#x44f] [#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x430]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x430]
[#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x443][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x430] 7
[#x43e][#x43a][#x442][#x44f][#x431][#x440][#x44f] 1996
[#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x430], [#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x43e][#x440] [#x42d][#x412][#x41c]
[#x412][#x44b][#x441][#x448][#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x433][#x43e][#x440]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x443][#x447][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x449][#x430]
[#x41a][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x440][#x430][#x434][#x43e]
[#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x443][#x436][#x438]\xD0
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x44b] \xD0[#x43e][#x447]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x44b]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x430],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x435] [#x43e]\xD0 \xD0[#x435]
[#x43c][#x43e][#x433]
[#x43e][#x431][#x44a][#x44f][#x441]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x44c]. [#x423]
[#x438]\xD0[#x441][#x442][#x438][#x442][#x443][#x442][#x430] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0
[#x43a][#x440][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x442][#x440][#x430][#x43a][#x442] [#x441]
[#x432][#x43e][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e]-[#x43c][#x43e][#x440][#x441][#x43a][#x438][
#x43c] [#x432][#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x43c][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x438] [#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x43e][#x440]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x438]\xD0
[#x43e][#x431] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x430][#x435] [#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x438]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x442][#x44b] [#x432]
[#x412][#x41c][#x424]. [#x41d][#x43e], [#x43a][#x430][#x43a] [#x438]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x441][#x442][#x44f] [#x434][#x432][#x430]
[#x434][#x435][#x441][#x44f][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x435][#x442][#x438][#x44f]
[#x432] DNC, "\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x443] \xD0[#x435]
[#x443][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c]
[#x441][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x432][#x441][#x435] [#x444][#x430][#x43a][#x442][#x44b]", -
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0 [#x422][#x43e][#x43c][#x430][#x441]
[#x420][#x438][#x434], [#x443][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x44b][#x439] [#x432]
[#x41a][#x43e][#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x432][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x436][#x435] [#x432]
[#x41b][#x43e]\xD0[#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x435],
[#x438][#x437][#x443][#x447][#x430][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x439]
[#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x443].

[#x423][#x447][#x451]\xD0[#x44b][#x435] [#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x435]
\xD0[#x430][#x437][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435] -
«[#x41b][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x439] [#x441][#x432][#x435][#x442]\xC2 - [#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x435]\xD0[#x438] [#x434][#x432][#x430]
[#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x430], [#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442][#x43e]
[#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x430][#x44f] [#x434]\xD0[#x435][#x43c]
[#x438] \xD0[#x43e][#x447][#x44c][#x44e],
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x436][#x438][#x432][#x430][#x44f],
[#x43a][#x430][#x43a] [#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x44b]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x43a][#x438][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#
x438] [#x438][#x437] [#x412][#x41c][#x424] [#x432]
[#x414][#x435]\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x442][#x430][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x433][#x435][#x442][#x438][#x43a][#x438], [#x432]
[#x412][#x412][#x421] [#x438] [#x41d][#x410][#x421][#x410]. [#x412]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x446][#x435] [#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x446][#x43e][#x432],
[#x43e]\xD0[#x438] \xD0[#x440][#x438][#x448]\xD0[#x438] [#x43a]
[#x432][#x44b][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x443], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e] [#x443][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x442][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e]
[#x444][#x430][#x439]\xD0[#x43e][#x432], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x438] [#x438][#x445]
[#x440][#x430][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x447][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x438] [#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x436][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x432][#x43c][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x435], [#x442][#x43e]
[#x43a][#x438]\xD0[#x430] [#x431][#x443][#x434][#x435][#x442]
[#x432][#x44b][#x448][#x435], [#x447][#x435][#x43c]
[#x41c][#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442]
[#x412][#x430][#x448][#x438]\xD0[#x433][#x442][#x43e]\xD0[#x443].

[#x41e][#x440][#x443][#x436][#x435][#x439]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x44b] [#x438]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x43a][#x438]
[#x443]\xD0[#x435][#x442][#x443][#x447][#x438][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#
x44c] [#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c], [#x438]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0 [#x442][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x432][#x44b][#x439]
[#x437][#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x447][#x435][#x43a],
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x430][#x432][#
x448][#x438][#x439] [#x43e] [#x442][#x43e][#x43c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x430][#x434][#x432][#x438][#x433][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c]:
[#x44d][#x441][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x430][#x446][#x438][#x44f]
[#x441]\xD0\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x4
45] [#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a] \xD0[#x43e]
[#x432][#x441][#x435][#x43c][#x443] [#x43c][#x438][#x440][#x443].

[#x41e][#x434]\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x43e] [#x432]
[#x442][#x435][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x43c]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x438][#x445] \xD0[#x435][#x442]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x44f]\xD0[#x435]
[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c] [#x432]
[#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x438]
[#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x430][#x440][#x44f]
[#x43a][#x438][#x442][#x430][#x439][#x446][#x430][#x43c] -
[#x431][#x440][#x430][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x43c] \xD0[#x430]
[#x441][#x435][#x431][#x44f] [#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x448][#x438][#x435]
[#x440][#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x438] [#x438]
\xD0[#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x43c][#x443] [#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x434][#x430][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x43c][#x441][#x44f].
[#x41e]\xD0[#x438] [#x443][#x43a][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x442][#x435][#x445]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#
x43a][#x438][#x435]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x43a][#x438]
[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x435][#x431][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44f] F-35,
[#x444][#x438][#x440][#x43c][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x441][#x435][#x43a][#x440][#x435][#x442][#x44b]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x43a][#x430][#x442][#x43a][#x438]
[#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x438], [#x434][#x430][#x436][#x435]
[#x447][#x435][#x440][#x442][#x435][#x436][#x438]
[#x433][#x430][#x437][#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x43e][#x432
], \xD0[#x438][#x442][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x445]
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x448][#x443][#x44e]
[#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442][#x44c]
[#x421][#x43e][#x435][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x428][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x43e][#x432]. [#x410] [#x432][#x43e]
[#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x44f]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#
x445] [#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x432] 2008
[#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x430]
[#x43a][#x438][#x442][#x430][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x44f]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x43a][#x430]
[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x430]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x44b] [#x432]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c]
[#x448][#x442][#x430][#x431][#x435] [#x433]-\xD0[#x430]
[#x41e][#x431][#x430][#x43c][#x44b] [#x438] [#x433]-\xD0[#x430]
[#x41c][#x430][#x43a][#x43a][#x435][#x439]\xD0[#x430] [#x441]
[#x432]\xD0[#x443][#x442][#x440][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x438]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43a][#x443][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430][#x43c][#x438],
[#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x44f][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x43c][#
x438] \xD0[#x43e][#x437][#x438][#x446][#x438][#x44e]
[#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x438][#x434][#x430][#x442][#x43e][#x432] \xD0[#x43e]
[#x440][#x430][#x437]\xD0[#x438][#x447]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]
[#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x430][#x43c], [#x441]
[#x440][#x435][#x43a]\xD0[#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c][#x438] [#x438]
[#x430][#x433][#x438][#x442][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c][#
x438]
[#x43c][#x430][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x430][#x43c][#x438].

[#x41f][#x440][#x430][#x432][#x434][#x430],
\xD0[#x438][#x447][#x435][#x433][#x43e] [#x438][#x437]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e] \xD0[#x435] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x43e].

[#x41a][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x447]\xD0[#x43e],
[#x440][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x443][#x434][#x430] \xD0[#x435]
[#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c]. "[#x41e]\xD0[#x438]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438] \xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x43e]
[#x433][#x43e][#x440][#x430][#x437][#x434][#x43e]
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x435]
[#x441][#x43a][#x440][#x44b][#x442]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c][#x438]", -
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0 [#x41a][#x435][#x432][#x438]\xD0
[#x41c][#x44d]\xD0[#x434][#x430][#x44f],
[#x431][#x44b][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x439]
[#x43e][#x444][#x438][#x446][#x435][#x440]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x43a][#x438]
[#x432][#x43e][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e]-[#x432][#x43e][#x437][#x434][#x443][#x448]\
xD0[#x44b][#x445] [#x441][#x438]\xD0,
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x448][#x443][#x44e]
[#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442][#x44c] [#x436][#x438][#x437]\xD0[#x438]
[#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x44f
] [#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x430][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435][#x43c]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x445]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a]. [#x41e]\xD0
[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x446][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x437][#x438][#x440][#x443][#
x44e][#x449][#x443][#x44e][#x441][#x44f] \xD0[#x430]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x431][#x435][#x437][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x441
]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438] [#x444][#x438][#x440][#x43c][#x443] Mandiant,
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x430][#x44f] [#x432]
\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x44f][#x449][#x435][#x435]
[#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x44f]
[#x44f][#x432]\xD0[#x44f][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x440][#x430][#x437][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x43
5][#x43c] FireEye. [#x41e]\xD0[#x430]
[#x43e][#x431][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x447][#x438][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x430]
[#x437][#x430][#x449][#x438][#x442][#x443]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#
x439] [#x43a][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x438]
[#x425][#x438]\xD0\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x438]
[#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0.

[#x420][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
[#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x448][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x438] [#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x438]
[#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x440][#x435][#x435] [#x432]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x445]
[#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x44f][#x445].
[#x41a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x430]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x442][#x438][#x432]
[#x42d][#x441][#x442][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x438],
[#x431][#x44b][#x432][#x448][#x435][#x439]
[#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439]
[#x440][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x438],
[#x432][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0[#x438][#x432][#x448][#x435][#x439] [#x432]
[#x41d][#x410][#x422][#x41e],
[#x43e][#x441][#x443][#x449][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43
0][#x44f] [#x432] 2007 [#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x443],
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x435][#x43c][#x43e]\xD0[#x441][#x442][#x440][#x438][#
x440][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x430], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x44f] [#x43c][#x43e][#x433]\xD0[#x430]
[#x431][#x44b]
\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x437][#x43e][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x44d][#x442][#x443] [#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x443]
[#x431][#x435][#x437]
[#x432][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f] [#x432]
\xD0[#x435][#x435]. [#x412]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x443][#x44e][#x449][#x435][#x43c]
[#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x443]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x438]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438]
[#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x437][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x44b]
[#x432][#x43e] [#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x44f]
[#x432][#x43e][#x439]\xD0[#x44b] [#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x438]
[#x441] [#x413][#x440][#x443][#x437][#x438][#x435][#x439].

[#x41e][#x434]\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x43e]
[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435
] [#x43e][#x444][#x438][#x446][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
\xD0[#x438][#x446][#x430] \xD0[#x435] [#x43c][#x43e][#x433]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x44c],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x440][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x43c][#x435][#x44e][#x442]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x431][#x43e][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x44d][#x442][#x438] [#x43c][#x435][#x442][#x43e][#x434][#x44b] [#x432]
[#x421][#x43e][#x435][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x428][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x445].
[#x410][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435
] [#x432]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x442][#x438] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438] [#x432]
[#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x441][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438]
[#x441][#x43e][#x441][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x447][#x435]\xD
0[#x44b] \xD0[#x430]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x440][#x430][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#
x438][#x438]
"[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x435][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x44
1][#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x41f][#x435][#x440]\xD0-[#x425][#x430][#x440][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x430]" -
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
[#x43e][#x442][#x43a]\xD0[#x44e][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x435][#x442][#x435][#x439
] [#x438] [#x441][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x439]
[#x441][#x432][#x44f][#x437][#x438], - [#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e], [#x43e]
[#x447][#x451][#x43c]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x430]\xD0
[#x431][#x44b][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x439]
[#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x440]
[#x43e][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x44b] [#x41b][#x435][#x43e]\xD0
[#x41f][#x430]\xD0[#x435][#x442][#x442][#x430].

[#x41e][#x434]\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x43e] [#x432] 2014 [#x438] 2015
[#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x430][#x445]
[#x440][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x44f]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x44f]
[#x433][#x440][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x430] \xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x430]
[#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x430][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x
441][#x43a][#x438][#x435] [#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x438] \xD0[#x430]
[#x413][#x43e][#x441][#x443][#x434][#x430][#x440][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435]\xD
0\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x442][#x430][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442],
[#x411][#x435]\xD0[#x44b][#x439] [#x434][#x43e][#x43c] [#x438]
[#x41e][#x431][#x44a][#x435][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x438][#x442][#x435][#x442]
\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432]
[#x448][#x442][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x432].
"[#x41a][#x430][#x436][#x434][#x44b][#x439] [#x440][#x430][#x437] [#x438][#x445]
[#x432][#x44b]\xD0[#x430][#x437][#x43a][#x438]
[#x443][#x432][#x435]\xD0[#x447][#x438][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c]
[#x443][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x445][#x43e][#x43c] [#x432] [#x442][#x43e][#x439]
[#x438]\xD0[#x438] [#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x444][#x43e][#x440][#x43c][#x435]",
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x43e] [#x41c][#x430][#x439][#x43a]\xD0
[#x421][#x430]\xD0[#x43c][#x430][#x439][#x435][#x440],
[#x431][#x44b][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x439]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x44d][#x43a][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x442
] [#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430]
[#x43e][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x44b], [#x438] [#x411][#x435]\xD0
[#x411][#x44c][#x44e][#x43a][#x435]\xD0[#x435]\xD0 [#x432]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43a]\xD0[#x430][#x434][#x435],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x439]
[#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x440][#x43e] [#x431][#x443][#x434][#x435][#x442]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0
[#x444][#x43e]\xD0[#x434][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x41a][#x430][#x440]\xD0[#x435][#x433][#x438]. [#x412]
\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x44f][#x449][#x435][#x435]
[#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x44f] [#x43e][#x431][#x430]
[#x443][#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x443][#x44e][#x442] [#x432]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x435] Harvard Cyber Security.

[#x420][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
[#x432][#x43e][#x437][#x432][#x435]\xD0[#x438] [#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x44e]
[#x441][#x43a][#x440][#x44b][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x44c] [#x432]
[#x430][#x431][#x441][#x43e]\xD0[#x44e][#x442],
[#x43e][#x431][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c]
[#x432][#x44b]\xD0[#x443][#x436][#x434][#x430][#x44f]
\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442][#x432][#
x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x44b]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x430][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x434][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435],
[#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e]
[#x43c][#x430][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x440][#x443][#x44f]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x441][#x438][#x433]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x44b]
"[#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f] [#x438]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x44f]"
[#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x438][#x43c]
[#x43e][#x431][#x440][#x430][#x437][#x43e][#x43c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x43
8] [#x43e] \xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44b][#x442][#x43a][#x430][#x445]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x441][#x435][#x43a][#x430][#x442][#x44c] [#x438][#x445]
[#x432][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x434][#x435][#x439][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x438][#x44f]. [#x412]
[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x443]\xD0[#x44c][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x435]
[#x413][#x43e][#x441][#x443][#x434][#x430][#x440][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435]\xD
0\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x442][#x430][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0 \xD0[#x430][#x441][#x442][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e]
\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x437][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0,
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x435][#x43c][#x443]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c]
\xD0[#x435][#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x437][#x430][#x43a][#x440][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x438] [#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x44b],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b]
[#x438][#x437][#x431][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x44c][#x441][#x44f]
[#x43e][#x442]
[#x432][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x433][#x448][#x438][#x445][#x441][#x44f]
[#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x443][#x43c][#x44b][#x448]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x438][#x43a][
#x43e][#x432]. [#x412] [#x43a][#x430][#x43a][#x43e][#x439]-[#x442][#x43e]
[#x43c][#x43e][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442]
[#x447][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430][#x43c],
[#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x43c][#x441
][#x44f] [#x432] [#x412][#x435]\xD0[#x443] [#x441]
[#x433][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x435][#x43a][#x440][#x435][#x442][#x430][#x440][#x
435][#x43c] [#x414][#x436][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c]
[#x41a][#x435][#x440][#x440][#x438] \xD0[#x430]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x433][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x440][#x44b] [#x441]
[#x418][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c] \xD0[#x43e]
[#x44f][#x434][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x443]
[#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x443],
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x448]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c]
[#x441][#x43e][#x437][#x434][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
\xD0\xD0[#x430][#x442]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x430][#x43a][#x43a][#x430][#x443]\xD0[#x442][#x44b] Gmail,
[#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b] \xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x43e]
[#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x430][#x442][#x44c][#x441][#x44f]
[#x434][#x440][#x443][#x433] [#x441] [#x434][#x440][#x443][#x433][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x438] [#x441]
[#x441][#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x436][#x434][#x430][#x44e][#x449
][#x438][#x43c][#x438] [#x438][#x445]
[#x436][#x443][#x440]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x43c][#x438].

[#x413]-\xD0[#x443] [#x41e][#x431][#x430][#x43c][#x435]
[#x440][#x435][#x433][#x443]\xD0[#x44f][#x440]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43a]\xD0[#x430][#x434][#x44b][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x43e][#x431] [#x44d][#x442][#x438][#x445]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x430][#x44f][#x445], \xD0[#x43e] [#x43e]\xD0
\xD0[#x440][#x438]\xD0[#x44f]\xD0
[#x440][#x435][#x448][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435], [#x43e]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x43c]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x438][#x435] [#x432] [#x411][#x435]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43c][#x435] [#x436][#x430]\xD0[#x435][#x44e][#x442]
[#x434][#x43e] [#x441][#x438][#x445] \xD0[#x43e][#x440]: [#x43e]\xD0 \xD0[#x435]
[#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0 \xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x447]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x443][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c] \xD0[#x430]
[#x440][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x445] [#x438]\xD0[#x438]
[#x432][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x441][#x430]\xD0[#x43a][#x446][#x438][#x438]. [#x414]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e] [#x432][#x441][#x435][#x433][#x434][#x430]
\xD0[#x430][#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c]
[#x43e][#x431][#x44a][#x44f][#x441]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]:
[#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430][#x445] \xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x434]
[#x44d][#x441][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x430][#x446][#x438][#x435][#x439]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x432][#x43e][#x439]\xD0[#x44b] [#x438]
[#x43c][#x44b][#x441]\xD0[#x44c] [#x43e] [#x442][#x43e][#x43c],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x421][#x428][#x410] \xD0[#x443][#x436]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x443][#x434]\xD0[#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x442
][#x432][#x43e] [#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x438] [#x432]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x433][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x440][#x430][#x445]
\xD0[#x43e] [#x421][#x438][#x440][#x438][#x438].

"[#x41c][#x44b] [#x437][#x430][#x441][#x435][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x430] [#x432][#x441][#x435][#x445] [#x44d][#x442][#x438][#x445]
[#x43c]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e][#x447][#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][
#x445] [#x432][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x435][#x447][#x430][#x445]", -
[#x440][#x430][#x441][#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x44b][#x432][#x430]\xD0
[#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0
[#x432][#x44b][#x441][#x43e][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432
]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x447][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]
[#x413][#x43e][#x441][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430], «\xD0[#x430]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x445] [#x432][#x441][#x435]
[#x441][#x43e][#x433]\xD0[#x430][#x448][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] \xD0[#x43e][#x440][#x430]
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x435][#x441][#x442][#x438]
[#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x442]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x443][#x434][#x430][#x440], [#x438] [#x43e][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]
[#x441][#x438]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]. [#x41d][#x43e]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e] [#x442][#x430][#x43a] [#x438] \xD0[#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x438][#x437][#x43e][#x448]\xD0[#x43e]\xC2.

[#x410] [#x440][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
[#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x430] \xD0[#x43e][#x448]\xD0[#x438] \xD0[#x430]
[#x44d][#x441][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x430][#x446][#x438][#x44e],
[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x43c][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x44f]
[#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x44b] \xD0[#x435]
[#x440][#x430][#x434][#x438] [#x448]\xD0[#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x436][#x430],
[#x430] [#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b]
[#x448][#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x43a][#x43e]
[#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c
] [#x442][#x43e], [#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x438][#x43c]
[#x443][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c] \xD0[#x430][#x439][#x442][#x438].
[#x41e]\xD0[#x438]
[#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c]
[#x442][#x435][#x43c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x441][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x438]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440]-[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x446][#x438][#x430]\xD0[
#x438][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x432]
\xD0[#x430][#x437][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
«[#x434][#x43e][#x43a][#x441][#x438]\xD0[#x433]\xC2.

[#x42d][#x442][#x43e] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x430]
[#x434][#x435][#x440][#x437][#x43a][#x430][#x44f]
[#x441][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x430]
[#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x442][#x438][#x43a][#x438]:
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x445][#x43e][#x434] [#x43e][#x442]
[#x448]\xD0[#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x436][#x430] [#x43a]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x44f][#x43c]
[#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]. [#x412]
[#x444][#x435][#x432][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x435] 2014 [#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x430]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x438] \xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x448][#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x43a][#x43e][#x439]
[#x433]\xD0[#x430][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x445][#x432][#x430][#x447][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43
9] [#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x444][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x433][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x440]
[#x412][#x438][#x43a][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x438][#x438]
[#x41d][#x443]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x434],
\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x43e][#x449]\xD0[#x438][#x446][#x44b]
[#x433][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x435][#x43a][#x440][#x435][#x442][#x430][#x440][#x
44f] \xD0[#x43e]
[#x432][#x437][#x430][#x438][#x43c][#x43e][#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x448][#x435
]\xD0[#x438][#x44f][#x43c] [#x441]
[#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x435][#x439], [#x443]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x439] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438]
[#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x440][#x44f][#x436][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x448][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f] [#x441]
[#x41f][#x443][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c], [#x438]
[#x414][#x436][#x435][#x444][#x444][#x440][#x438]
[#x41f][#x44c][#x44f][#x442][#x442][#x430], \xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x430]
[#x421][#x428][#x410] [#x432] [#x423][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x438]\xD0[#x435].
[#x413]-[#x436][#x430] [#x41d][#x443]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x434]
[#x440][#x430][#x441][#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x44b][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x430
] [#x43e]
[#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x438][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#
x439] \xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44b][#x442][#x43a][#x435] [#x421][#x428][#x410]
[#x432][#x44b][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x44c]
\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x440][#x435][#x434]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c] [#x432]
[#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x43e][#x439] [#x441][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x43a][#x435] [#x432]
[#x423][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x438]\xD0[#x435],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x430][#x44f]
[#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x436][#x438][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x430]
[#x441][#x438]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
\xD0[#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x44f][#x441][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f].

[#x41e]\xD0[#x438] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438] \xD0[#x435]
[#x435][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c][#x43
8] \xD0[#x430] [#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x440][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x43a][#x442][#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x44d][#x442][#x443]
[#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x435][#x433][#x438][#x44e]
[#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x430]
«\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x445][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x438]\xD0-[#x43e][#x433]
\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x438]\xD0\xC2. [#x424][#x43e]\xD0[#x434]
«[#x41e][#x442][#x43a][#x440][#x44b][#x442][#x43e][#x435]
[#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e]\xC2
[#x414][#x436][#x43e][#x440][#x434][#x436][#x430]
[#x421][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x430] [#x442][#x43e][#x436][#x435]
[#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0 [#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x43e][#x439] [#x438][#x437]
[#x433]\xD0[#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x43c][#x438][#x448][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x439], [#x438]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43a][#x443][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x44b]
[#x444][#x43e]\xD0[#x434][#x430] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x44b]
[#x433]\xD0[#x430][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438],
\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x435] [#x438][#x437]
\xD0[#x438][#x445] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438]
[#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x44b] [#x442][#x430][#x43a],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b]
[#x441][#x43e][#x437][#x434][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x432]\xD0[#x435][#x447][#x430][#x442]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x431][#x443][#x434][#x442][#x43e] [#x424][#x43e]\xD0[#x434]
[#x444][#x438]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x438][#x440][#x443][#x435][#x442]
[#x447]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x43e][#x432]
[#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x437][#x438][#x446][#x438][#x438] [#x432]
[#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x438].

[#x412] \xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x448]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c] [#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x443]
[#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x438] [#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x435]
[#x430][#x433][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x432]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c][#x438
]. [#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x44f]
[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x430]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x44b]
[#x43a][#x440][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x444][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x446][#x443][#x437][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439]
[#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x432][#x438][#x437][#x438][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x43
9] [#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x446][#x438][#x438], [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x432][#x44b][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x43e] [#x438][#x437]
[#x441][#x442][#x440][#x43e][#x44f] [#x432][#x430][#x436]\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
[#x43e][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x443][#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435
]. [#x412]
[#x420][#x43e][#x436][#x434][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435]\xD0[#x441][#x43a
][#x438][#x435] [#x434]\xD0[#x438] [#x43e]\xD0[#x438]
[#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x435][#x442][#x438]
[#x423][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x438]\xD0[#x44b],
[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x432]
[#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442][#x44c] [#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x44b]
[#x432] [#x442][#x435][#x43c]\xD0[#x43e][#x442][#x435],
[#x432][#x44b][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x44f] [#x438][#x437]
[#x441][#x442][#x440][#x43e][#x44f]
[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x435][#x440][#x432]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b].
[#x421][#x435][#x439][#x447][#x430][#x441]
[#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44f][#x442]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x438][#x442][#x435]\x
D0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x439] [#x432][#x44b][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x435]\xD0.

[#x42d][#x442][#x438] [#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x438] «[#x435][#x449][#x435]
\xD0[#x435] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438]
[#x432][#x43e][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c][#x438]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x44f][#x43c][#x438] [#x432]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x43c] [#x441][#x43c][#x44b][#x441]\xD0[#x435]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e] [#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x430]",-
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0 [#x433]-\xD0
[#x421][#x430]\xD0[#x43c][#x435][#x439][#x435][#x440], \xD0[#x43e]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x435][#x43c][#x43e]\xD0[#x441][#x442][#x440][#x438][#
x440][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x440][#x430][#x441][#x442][#x443][#x449][#x443][#x44e]
[#x434][#x435][#x440][#x437][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x44c].

[#x41c][#x418][#x41b][#x42b][#x419] [#x41c][#x418][#x428][#x41a][#x410] [#x418]
[#x41a][#x420][#x423][#x422][#x41e][#x419] [#x41c][#x418][#x428][#x41a][#x410]

[#x412] [#x430]\xD0[#x440][#x435]\xD0[#x435],
\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x443]\xD0[#x435] [#x443][#x436][#x438]\xD0[#x430]
[#x410][#x441][#x441][#x43e][#x446][#x438][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x438]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x440][#x440][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x44
2][#x43e][#x432] [#x411][#x435]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43c][#x430], [#x433]-[#x436][#x430]
[#x414][#x44d][#x439][#x441][#x438],
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442] DNC
[#x433][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x432][#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x44c] [#x43a]
\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x434]\xD0[#x438][#x447]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x443]
[#x432][#x435][#x447][#x435][#x440][#x443], [#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x44f]
[#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x444][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x437][#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x43a].

[#x41f][#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x435]
[#x443][#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x43a][#x438]
\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x439]
[#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x44b]
[#x43c][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x438]\xD0[#x433][#x430],
[#x433]-\xD0 [#x422][#x44d][#x43c][#x438]\xD0
[#x442][#x449][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x438]\xD0
[#x430][#x434][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438
][#x432]\xD0[#x44b][#x439] [#x430][#x440][#x445][#x438][#x432]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x44b] DNC [#x438]
[#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x443][#x436][#x438]\xD0
\xD0[#x435][#x447][#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x43e][#x437][#x440][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43
e][#x435]: [#x43a][#x442][#x43e]-[#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x438][#x439],
[#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x434][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x439]
[#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x430][#x434][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438
][#x432]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e] [#x443][#x440][#x43e][#x432]\xD0[#x44f],
\xD0[#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x43a] [#x432]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x44b] DNC.

[#x422][#x43e][#x447]\xD0[#x43e] \xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x442][#x43e] \xD0[#x435]
[#x437]\xD0[#x430]\xD0,
\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e]
[#x432][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430] [#x431][#x440][#x435][#x448][#x44c],
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x431][#x438][#x442][#x430][#x44f]
[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x449][#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c], \xD0[#x43e]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x448][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e]
[#x44f][#x441]\xD0[#x43e], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x43e][#x431][#x44a][#x435][#x43c]
\xD0[#x43e][#x445][#x438][#x449][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x438]\xD0[#x444][#x43e][#x440][#x43c][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x438]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0 [#x433][#x43e][#x440][#x430][#x437][#x434][#x43e]
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x448][#x435], [#x447][#x435][#x43c]
[#x441][#x43e][#x434][#x435][#x440][#x436][#x438][#x43c][#x43e][#x435]
[#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x44f][#x440][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#
x43e] [#x448][#x43a][#x430][#x444][#x430].
[#x421][#x43e][#x445][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x44f][#x44f]
[#x441][#x435][#x43a][#x440][#x435][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x44c],
\xD0[#x435][#x43c][#x435][#x434]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0
[#x441][#x43e][#x437][#x432][#x430]\xD0
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x446][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x438][#x442][#x435][#x442], [#x432]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x439]
[#x432][#x43e][#x448]\xD0[#x438] [#x433]-[#x436][#x430]
[#x414][#x44d][#x439][#x441][#x438], [#x433]-[#x436][#x430]
[#x412][#x430][#x441][#x441][#x435][#x440][#x43c][#x430]\xD0
[#x428][#x443]\xD0[#x44c][#x446], [#x433]-\xD0 [#x411][#x440][#x430][#x443]\xD0
[#x438] [#x41c][#x430][#x439][#x43a]\xD0
[#x421][#x430][#x441][#x441][#x43c][#x44d]\xD0\xD0,
[#x431][#x44b][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x439]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x43a][#x443][#x440][#x43e][#x440] \xD0[#x43e]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0\x
D0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438], [#x432]
\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x44f][#x449][#x435][#x435]
[#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x44f]
[#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x439] [#x432]
Perkins Coie,
[#x44e][#x440][#x438][#x434][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439]
[#x444][#x438][#x440][#x43c][#x435],
[#x432][#x435][#x434][#x443][#x449][#x435][#x439]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
[#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430] DNC.

«[#x422][#x440][#x438] [#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x44b][#x445]
[#x433]\xD0[#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x430]\xC2, -
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x430]\xD0 [#x433]-\xD0
[#x421][#x430][#x441][#x441][#x43c][#x44d]\xD0\xD0
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x438][#x43c]
[#x43a]\xD0[#x438][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430][#x43c] [#x432] [#x442][#x43e][#x442]
[#x432][#x435][#x447][#x435][#x440], [#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x436][#x434][#x435]\xD0
[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c], - «1) [#x41a]
[#x43a][#x430][#x43a][#x438][#x43c] [#x434][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0 \xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x435]\xD0
[#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0?; 2) [#x41a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x43e]?; 3) [#x41a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e]
[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x44c]?\xC2

[#x413]-\xD0 [#x421][#x430][#x441][#x441][#x43c][#x44d]\xD0\xD0
[#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x442][#x438]\xD0
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x438][#x43c]
[#x43a]\xD0[#x438][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430][#x43c]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x437][#x43e][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c][#x441][#x44f]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x43e][#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x439] DNC, [#x442][#x430][#x43a]
[#x43a][#x430][#x43a] [#x443] \xD0[#x438][#x445] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0
[#x442][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e] [#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0
[#x448][#x430]\xD0[#x441]
[#x432][#x44b][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x432] [#x437][#x430]
[#x434][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x44c] - [#x438] [#x43e]\xD0
[#x431][#x443][#x434][#x435][#x442] [#x443]\xD0[#x443][#x449][#x435]\xD0,
[#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x438] [#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x44b]
[#x443][#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x44e][#x442], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x438]
[#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x443][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x44b].

«[#x423] [#x432][#x430][#x441] [#x442][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e]
[#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0 [#x448][#x430]\xD0[#x441]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x44f][#x442][#x44c] [#x43c][#x43e][#x441][#x442]\xC2, -
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0 [#x433]-\xD0
[#x421][#x430][#x441][#x441][#x43c][#x44d]\xD0\xD0, - «[#x415][#x441]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x442][#x438][#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x438]
[#x443][#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x44e][#x442], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x432][#x430][#x43c] [#x438][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x43e][#x431] [#x438][#x445]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x441][#x443][#x442][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x438][#x438],
[#x43e]\xD0[#x438] \xD0[#x440][#x438][#x43c][#x443][#x442]
[#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x44b], [#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b]
[#x441]\xD0[#x440][#x44f][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x44c][#x441][#x44f]
[#x438]\xD0[#x438] [#x441][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x435][#x442][#x44c]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x44b] [#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x435][#x433][#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x441][#x443][#x442][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x438][#x44f]\xC2.

DNC \xD0[#x435][#x43c][#x435][#x434]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e]
[#x43e][#x431][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x44c] [#x432]
CrowdStrike, [#x444][#x438][#x440][#x43c][#x443],
[#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x443][#x44e][#x441][#x44f
]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x431][#x435][#x437][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x441
]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x44c][#x44e], [#x441]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x44c][#x431][#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x430][#
x442][#x44c]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x44b],
[#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x438][#x444][#x438][#x446][#x438][#x440][#x43e
][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c] \xD0[#x435][#x437][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x433][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x439] [#x438]
\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x43e][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x443][#x44e]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x443][#x44e]
[#x438] [#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x444][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x443][#x44e]
[#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x443] [#x441]
\xD0[#x443]\xD0[#x44f]. [#x412] [#x442][#x435][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x434]\xD0[#x44f] CrowdStrike
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x430],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x432][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e] [#x438][#x437]
[#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x438],
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x438]\xD0 [#x433]-\xD0
[#x421][#x430][#x441][#x441][#x43c][#x44d]\xD0\xD0.

[#x420][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x430],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x443][#x44e]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x44f][#x442]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x438],
[#x44f][#x432]\xD0[#x44f][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x432][#x435][#x440][#x441][#x438][#x435][#x439]
[#x441][#x442][#x430][#x440][#x43e][#x43c][#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e
]
[#x440][#x430][#x441][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#
x44f] \xD0[#x430] [#x43c][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f],
[#x441] \xD0[#x43e][#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x435][#x447][#x430][#x442][#x43a][#x43e][#x432]
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x44c][#x446][#x435][#x432],
[#x441][#x442][#x440][#x435]\xD0[#x44f]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x433][#x438]\xD0[#x44c][#x437] [#x438]
[#x432][#x437][#x44f][#x442][#x438][#x435][#x43c]
[#x43e][#x431][#x440][#x430][#x437][#x446][#x43e][#x432] [#x414][#x41d][#x41a],
[#x442][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e] [#x432] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x430][#x435]
[#x432][#x435][#x434][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
\xD0[#x43e][#x438][#x441][#x43a]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x432],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x435]
[#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x436][#x435] [#x43c][#x43e][#x433][#x443][#x442]
[#x431][#x44b][#x442][#x44c]
[#x438]\xD0[#x43a][#x440][#x438][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x440][#x443][#x44e][#
x449][#x438][#x43c][#x438]. [#x41a][#x430][#x43a]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x446][#x435][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
[#x443][#x447][#x430][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x44f][#x442][#x44c]
[#x445][#x430][#x440][#x430][#x43a][#x442][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x43c][#x435][#x442][#x43e][#x434][#x44b]
[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x449][#x438][#x43a][#x430] [#x441][#x43e]
[#x441][#x442][#x430][#x436][#x435][#x43c], [#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x436][#x435]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x438]
[#x438][#x437] CrowdStrike
[#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x438]
«\xD0[#x43e][#x447][#x435][#x440][#x43a]\xC2 Cozy Bear [#x438] Fancy Bear.

[#x42d][#x442][#x43e] [#x43a]\xD0[#x438][#x447][#x43a][#x438],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x435] CrowdStrike
[#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x430] [#x434][#x432][#x443][#x43c]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x43c]
[#x433][#x440][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x430][#x43c]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x432],
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x44b] [#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x44b]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x445]
[#x444][#x438][#x440][#x43c][#x430]
[#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x443][#x436][#x438]\xD0[#x430] [#x432]
[#x441][#x435][#x442][#x438] DNC. Cozy Bear ([#x41c][#x438]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x41c][#x438][#x448][#x43a][#x430]) - [#x433][#x440][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x430],
[#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x436][#x435]
[#x438][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x430][#x44f]
[#x43a][#x430][#x43a] Dukes, [#x438]\xD0[#x438] [#x410][#x420][#x422]-29,
[#x441][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x43e][#x442] Advanced Persistent Threat
(\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x44f]\xD0\xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x448][#x435]\xD0[#x441][#x442][#x432][#x443
][#x435][#x43c][#x430][#x44f] [#x443][#x433][#x440][#x43e][#x437][#x430]).
[#x413][#x440][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x430] [#x43c][#x43e][#x436][#x435][#x442]
[#x430][#x441][#x441][#x43e][#x446][#x438][#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x430][#x
442][#x44c][#x441][#x44f] [#x441] [#x424][#x421][#x411] (\xD0[#x43e]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e] \xD0[#x435]
\xD0[#x430][#x432][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x44f][#x43a][#x430]),
[#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x43e]
[#x448][#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x43a][#x43e]
[#x440][#x430][#x441]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x435]\x
D0[#x43e] [#x43c]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x442][#x430][#x43a] [#x438]\xD0[#x438] [#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x435]
[#x44d][#x442][#x430] [#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x44f]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x438][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
[#x433][#x43e][#x441][#x443][#x434][#x430][#x440][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435]\xD
0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c][#x438] [#x43e][#x440][#x433][#x430]\xD0[#x430][#x43c][#x438]
[#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x438].
[#x412]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x432][#x44b][#x435] Cozy Bear
\xD0[#x43e][#x44f][#x432][#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x44c] [#x432] 2014
[#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x443], [#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0
[#x414][#x43c][#x438][#x442][#x440][#x438][#x439]
[#x410]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x438][#x447],
[#x441][#x43e][#x443][#x447][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c
] [#x438] [#x433]\xD0[#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x442][#x435][#x445]\xD0[#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x439]
[#x434][#x438][#x440][#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x43e][#x440] CrowdStrike.

[#x412] CrowdStrike \xD0[#x440][#x438][#x448]\xD0[#x438] [#x43a]
[#x437][#x430][#x43a]\xD0[#x44e][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44e],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] Cozy Bear [#x432]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x432][#x44b][#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]\xD0[#x430] [#x432] DNC
\xD0[#x435][#x442][#x43e][#x43c] 2015 [#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x430]
\xD0[#x443][#x442][#x451][#x43c]
[#x440][#x430][#x441][#x441][#x44b]\xD0[#x43a][#x438]
[#x444][#x438][#x448][#x438]\xD0[#x433][#x43e][#x432][#x44b][#x445]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x435][#x43c]
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x448][#x43e][#x43c][#x443]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x443]
[#x432][#x430][#x448][#x438]\xD0[#x433][#x442][#x43e]\xD0[#x441][#x43a][#x438][#
x445]
[#x433][#x43e][#x441][#x443][#x434][#x430][#x440][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435]\xD
0\xD0[#x44b][#x445] [#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x441][#x442][#x432],
\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a
][#x438][#x445]
[#x43e][#x440][#x433][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x437][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x439]
[#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442][#x432][#
x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x440][#x44f][#x434][#x447][#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432].
[#x412][#x441][#x44f][#x43a][#x438][#x439] [#x440][#x430][#x437],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430] [#x43a][#x442][#x43e]-[#x442][#x43e]
[#x43e][#x442][#x43a][#x440][#x44b][#x432][#x430]\xD0
[#x444][#x438][#x448][#x438]\xD0[#x433][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x435]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435],
[#x440][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
[#x432][#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x438] [#x432]
[#x441][#x435][#x442][#x44c], \xD0[#x430][#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x438]
[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x435][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x443][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x435
] [#x438][#x445] [#x434][#x43e][#x43a][#x443][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x44b]
[#x438] \xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x438][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x438][#x445] [#x432]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD
0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x445] [#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x44f][#x445].

«[#x41a][#x430][#x43a] [#x442][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x438] \xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438] [#x432] DNC, [#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x430][#x448]\xD0[#x438] [#x446][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x443][#x44e]
[#x438]\xD0[#x444][#x43e][#x440][#x43c][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x44e] [#x438]
[#x440][#x435][#x448][#x438]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x436][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x44e]\xC2,
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x438]\xD0 [#x433]-\xD0
[#x410]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x438][#x447],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x439]
[#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x441][#x44f] [#x432]
[#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x438] [#x438]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x435][#x445][#x430]\xD0 [#x432] [#x421][#x428][#x410]
[#x432] [#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x43e][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435].

Fancy Bear ([#x41a][#x440][#x443][#x442][#x43e][#x439]
[#x41c][#x438][#x448][#x43a][#x430])
\xD0[#x43e][#x44f][#x432][#x438]\xD0[#x441][#x44f]
[#x442][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e] [#x432]
[#x43c][#x430][#x440][#x442][#x435] 2016 -
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x432][#x430]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]\xD0[#x443][#x432] [#x432]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x44b]
[#x41a][#x43e][#x43c][#x438][#x442][#x435][#x442][#x430]
[#x414][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x
441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439] \xD0[#x430][#x440][#x442][#x438][#x438] \xD0[#x43e]
[#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x430][#x43c] [#x432]
[#x41a][#x43e]\xD0[#x433][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x441] [#x421][#x428][#x410],
[#x430] \xD0[#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x43c]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x438][#x432][#x448][#x438
][#x441][#x44c] [#x432] DNC. [#x422][#x430][#x43a]
[#x441][#x447][#x438][#x442][#x430][#x435][#x442]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x438][#x435]. Fancy Bear,
[#x438][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x436][#x435] [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x410][#x420][#x422]29 [#x438], \xD0[#x43e][#x445][#x43e][#x436][#x435],
[#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x44f][#x435][#x43c][#x44b][#x439]
[#x413][#x420][#x423], [#x432][#x43e][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x43a][#x43e][#x439]
[#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x438], [#x431][#x44b]\xD0
[#x441][#x43e][#x437][#x434][#x430]\xD0 [#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x44c][#x448][#x435]
[#x438]
[#x43e][#x442][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x436][#x438][#x432][#x430][#x435][#x442][#x441
][#x44f] [#x417][#x430]\xD0[#x430][#x434][#x43e][#x43c] [#x432]
[#x442][#x435][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435] \xD0[#x43e][#x447][#x442][#x438]
[#x434][#x435][#x441][#x44f][#x442][#x438] \xD0[#x435][#x442].
[#x418][#x43c][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e] Fancy Bear
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x438]\xD0[#x438]
[#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0 [#x43a]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x43e][#x447][#x442][#x435] [#x433]-\xD0[#x430]
[#x41f][#x43e][#x434][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x44b].

[#x410][#x442][#x440][#x438][#x431][#x443][#x446][#x438][#x44f]
[#x43a][#x430][#x43a] [#x443][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x438][#x444][#x438][#x446][#x438][#x440][#x43e
][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440]-[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x430]
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x448][#x435] \xD0[#x43e][#x445][#x43e][#x436][#x430]
\xD0[#x430] [#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e],
[#x447][#x435][#x43c] \xD0[#x430] \xD0[#x430][#x443][#x43a][#x443].
[#x427][#x430][#x441][#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x435][#x432][#x43e][#x437][#x43c][#x43e][#x436]\xD0[#x43e] [#x441]
[#x430][#x431][#x441][#x43e]\xD0[#x44e][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x443][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x44c][#x44e]
\xD0[#x430][#x437][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c] [#x438][#x43c][#x44f]
[#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x443][#x44e][#x449][#x435][#x433][#x43e].
[#x41d][#x43e] [#x441] [#x442][#x435][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435][#x43c]
[#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x438], \xD0[#x440][#x438]
\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x438]
[#x441]\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432][#x43e][#x447]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x43c][#x430][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x432],
[#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x445]
[#x43c][#x435][#x442][#x43e][#x434][#x44b] [#x438] [#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x438]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x432],
[#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
[#x432][#x43e][#x437][#x43c][#x43e][#x436]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x440][#x435][#x446][#x438][#x434][#x438][#x432][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x
432]. [#x41d][#x430]\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x43c][#x435][#x440], Fancy Bear
[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x435][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#
x44f] [#x432][#x43e][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c][#x438] [#x438]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x43c][#
x438] [#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x44f][#x43c][#x438] \xD0[#x430]
[#x423][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x438]\xD0[#x435] [#x438] [#x432]
[#x413][#x440][#x443][#x437][#x438][#x438], [#x430]
[#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x436][#x435] [#x431][#x430][#x437][#x430][#x43c][#x438]
[#x41d][#x410][#x422][#x41e].

[#x42d][#x442][#x43e] [#x432][#x43e] [#x43c]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x438][#x441][#x43a]\xD0[#x44e][#x447][#x430][#x435][#x442]
[#x440][#x44f][#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x44b][#x445]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0\x
D0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432] [#x438]
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x448][#x438]\xD0[#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e]
[#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430]\xD0, [#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x438]\xD0
[#x433][#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0
[#x410]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x438][#x447].
«[#x41a][#x440][#x43e][#x43c][#x435] [#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x438],
\xD0[#x435][#x442] [#x434][#x440][#x443][#x433][#x438][#x445]
[#x432][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x44f][#x442]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x446][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#
x438][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x432],
[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x435][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x443][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x445
][#x441][#x44f] [#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x438][#x43c]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x436][#x435][#x440][#x442][#x432]\xC2, [#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0
[#x43e]\xD0. [#x415][#x449][#x451] [#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0
[#x43a]\xD0[#x44e][#x447] [#x43a]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x433][#x430][#x434][#x43a][#x435]:
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
[#x433][#x440][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x43a][#x438]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x432], [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432][#x438]\xD0[#x43e],
[#x434][#x435][#x439][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x432] [#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x447][#x438][#x435]
[#x447][#x430][#x441][#x44b] \xD0[#x43e]
[#x43c][#x43e][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x443]
[#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x438].

[#x41a] [#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x435][#x43c][#x443]
[#x438][#x437][#x443][#x43c]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44e],
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0
[#x433][#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0
[#x410]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x438][#x447],
[#x44d][#x43a][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x442][#x44b] CrowdStrike
\xD0[#x430][#x448]\xD0[#x438] \xD0[#x440][#x438][#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x438]
[#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
[#x433][#x440][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x43a][#x438]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x432] \xD0[#x435]
[#x441][#x43e][#x433]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x44b][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#
x438] [#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x438] [#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x438]
[#x43c][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x443] [#x441][#x43e][#x431][#x43e][#x439]. Fancy
Bear, \xD0[#x43e] [#x432][#x441][#x435][#x439]
[#x432][#x438][#x434][#x438][#x43c][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438], \xD0[#x435]
[#x437]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x430], [#x447][#x442][#x43e] Cozy Bear [#x432]
[#x442][#x435][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x430]
[#x440][#x44b]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x44c] [#x432]
[#x444][#x430][#x439]\xD0[#x430][#x445] DNC, [#x438]
[#x437][#x430][#x445][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x430]
[#x43c]\xD0[#x43e][#x436][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e]
[#x442][#x435][#x445] [#x436][#x435] [#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x44b][#x445]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43a][#x443][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x43e][#x432].

[#x412] [#x442][#x435][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x448][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x438] \xD0[#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]
\xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x435] \xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x430]
[#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x44b] CrowdStrike, [#x432]
[#x43e][#x431][#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x43a][#x435]
[#x430][#x431][#x441][#x43e]\xD0[#x44e][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x441][#x435][#x43a][#x440][#x435][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438],
[#x437][#x430][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x430]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x443][#x44e]
[#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x443] DNC. [#x412]
[#x432][#x44b][#x445][#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x44b][#x435] [#x434]\xD0[#x438]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x430][#x434][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x430] [#x438]
[#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x444][#x43e]\xD0[#x44b]
[#x43e][#x442][#x43a]\xD0[#x44e][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c];
[#x441][#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x443][#x434]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430][#x43c]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x438]\xD0[#x438], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x432][#x435][#x434][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
[#x43c][#x43e][#x434][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x438][#x437][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x44f
] [#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x44b].
[#x421][#x43e][#x434][#x435][#x440][#x436][#x438][#x43c][#x43e][#x435]
[#x432][#x441][#x435][#x445]
\xD0[#x43e][#x443][#x442][#x431][#x443][#x43a][#x43e][#x432]
«\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x448][#x435][#x440][#x441][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x438]\xC2,
[#x436][#x451][#x441][#x442][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
[#x434][#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x438] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438]
[#x432][#x44b][#x447][#x438][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x44b], [#x430]
\xD0[#x435][#x437][#x430][#x440][#x430][#x436][#x451]\xD0\xD0[#x430][#x44f]
[#x438]\xD0[#x444][#x43e][#x440][#x43c][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x44f]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x430]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x441][#x435]\xD0[#x430] \xD0[#x430]
\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x44b][#x435] [#x434][#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x438].

[#x425][#x43e][#x442][#x44f]
[#x447][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x438] DNC
[#x437]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x44b]
[#x41a][#x43e][#x43c][#x438][#x442][#x435][#x442][#x430]
[#x414][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x
441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439] \xD0[#x430][#x440][#x442][#x438][#x438] \xD0[#x43e]
[#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x430][#x43c] [#x432]
[#x41a][#x43e]\xD0[#x433][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x441] [#x421][#x428][#x410]
[#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x436][#x435] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438]
[#x437][#x430][#x440][#x430][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x44b], [#x43e]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x435] [#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x438]
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x438][#x445] [#x43a][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x435][#x433],
[#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x445] [#x432]
[#x442][#x43e][#x43c] [#x436][#x435] [#x437][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x438],
[#x442][#x430][#x43a] [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x431][#x43e][#x44f]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c]
[#x443][#x442][#x435][#x447][#x43a][#x438]
[#x438]\xD0[#x444][#x43e][#x440][#x43c][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x438].

[#x412][#x441][#x451] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x438][#x441][#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x430] [#x444][#x43e]\xD0[#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x436][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x435][#x433][#
x43e][#x441][#x44f]
[#x441][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432][#
x430] [#x437][#x430]
[#x432][#x44b][#x434][#x432][#x438][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x414][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43c][#x438]
[#x433]-[#x436][#x438] [#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0 [#x438]
[#x433]-\xD0[#x430] [#x421][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x435][#x440][#x441][#x430],
[#x438] [#x441][#x438]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x43e][#x442][#x432]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x43e] [#x433]-[#x436][#x443]
[#x412][#x430][#x441][#x441][#x435][#x440][#x43c][#x430]\xD0
[#x428][#x443]\xD0[#x44c][#x446] [#x438]
[#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x4
33][#x43e] [#x434][#x438][#x440][#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x430] DNC
[#x43e][#x442]
[#x438][#x437][#x431][#x438][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#
x439] [#x43a][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x438].

«[#x42d][#x442][#x43e] [#x432][#x430][#x43c] \xD0[#x435]
\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x435][#x445][#x430] \xD0[#x430]
[#x434][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x433][#x435], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x430][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
[#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442][#x43e]\xC2, -
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x430] [#x43e]\xD0[#x430] [#x432]
[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x435][#x440][#x432][#x44c][#x44e]. - «[#x414][#x432][#x430]
[#x440][#x430][#x437]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x445]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD
0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x430]
[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x438] \xD0[#x430][#x448][#x443]
[#x441][#x435][#x442][#x44c] [#x438] [#x443][#x43a][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x430][#x448][#x443]
[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x443][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\
xD0[#x443][#x44e]
[#x441][#x43e][#x431][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#
x44c]. [#x418] [#x43c][#x44b] \xD0[#x435] [#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x435][#x43c],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x438][#x43c]
[#x443][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c]
[#x437][#x430][#x445][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x438][#x442][#x44c].
[#x41e][#x434]\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x43e] \xD0[#x430][#x43c]
[#x438][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x43e], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x438][#x43c] [#x443][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x448][#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x43a][#x438][#x439]
[#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0 [#x43a] \xD0[#x430][#x448][#x435][#x439]
[#x441][#x435][#x442][#x438]. [#x41c][#x44b] [#x432]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x435][#x438][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#
x438]. [#x42d][#x442][#x43e] \xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x43e]
[#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x438][#x432][#x430][#x435][#x442] [#x438][#x437]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x438]\xC2.

[#x420][#x443][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x438
] DNC [#x441][#x43e] [#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x438][#x43c]
[#x44e][#x440][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x432]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x432][#x44b][#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x435]\xD0[#x438]
[#x43e][#x444][#x438][#x446][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x443][#x44e]
[#x432][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x435][#x447][#x443] [#x441]
[#x432][#x44b][#x441][#x43e][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432
]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c][#x438]
[#x447][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430][#x43c][#x438]
[#x438][#x437] [#x424][#x411][#x420] [#x432]
[#x441][#x435][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x435] [#x438][#x44e]\xD0[#x44f],
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x441][#x442][#x44f]
[#x434][#x435][#x432][#x44f][#x442][#x44c]
[#x43c][#x435][#x441][#x44f][#x446][#x435][#x432] \xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x435]
[#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e], [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x446][#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x436][#x431][#x430]
[#x432]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x432][#x44b][#x435]
[#x43e][#x431][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x44c] [#x432]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x436][#x431][#x443]
[#x442][#x435][#x445]\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x434][#x435][#x440][#x436][#x43a][#x438
]. [#x41f][#x43e] [#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x430][#x43c]
[#x443][#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432], [#x432]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x432][#x443][#x44e]
[#x43e][#x447][#x435][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x44c] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438]
[#x441][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x44b]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x443][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x435]
[#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x44b]:
[#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b]
[#x424][#x435][#x434][#x435][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442][#x432][#
x43e] \xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x435]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x440][#x43e][#x447]\xD0[#x443][#x44e]
[#x430][#x442][#x440][#x438][#x431][#x443][#x446][#x438][#x44e]
[#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x443][#x43c][#x44b][#x448]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x438][#x43a][
#x43e][#x432], [#x444][#x43e][#x440][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x43e][#x431][#x432][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x432] [#x438][#x445] [#x432]
[#x441][#x432][#x44f][#x437][#x44f][#x445] [#x441]
\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442][#x432][#
x43e][#x43c] [#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x438],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b] \xD0[#x435]
[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x439] [#x432]
[#x442][#x43e][#x43c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x430] \xD0[#x435]
[#x43e][#x431][#x44b][#x447]\xD0[#x430][#x44f]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x44f]
[#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x430], [#x430]
[#x448]\xD0[#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x436],
[#x43e][#x441][#x443][#x449][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432]\xD0[#x44f][#x435][#x43c
][#x44b][#x439]
[#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]
[#x433][#x43e][#x441][#x443][#x434][#x430][#x440][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e][#x
43c].

«[#x423] [#x432][#x430][#x441] \xD0[#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]
[#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x43e][#x43c] [#x438][#x434][#x443][#x442]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#
x435] [#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x44b], [#x438] [#x432][#x44b]
[#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x435][#x442][#x435], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x440][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x438] DNC\xC2, -
[#x432][#x43e][#x437][#x43c][#x443][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x441][#x44f] [#x433]-\xD0
[#x421][#x430][#x441][#x441][#x43c][#x44d]\xD0\xD0,
[#x441][#x441][#x44b]\xD0[#x430][#x44f][#x441][#x44c] \xD0[#x430]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x424][#x411][#x420]. - «[#x41d][#x430][#x43c]
\xD0[#x435][#x43e][#x431][#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x438][#x43c][#x43e]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x438][#x442][#x44c] [#x43e][#x431]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c
][#x443] \xD0[#x430][#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x443]. [#x418]
\xD0[#x435][#x43c][#x435][#x434]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e]\xC2.

[#x420][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c] [#x421][#x41c][#x418]

[#x412] [#x441][#x435][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x435]
[#x438][#x44e]\xD0[#x44f] \xD0[#x43e] [#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x442][#x443]
[#x433]-\xD0[#x430] [#x421][#x430][#x441][#x441][#x43c][#x44d]\xD0\xD0[#x430]
[#x440][#x443][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e]
DNC [#x440][#x435][#x448][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c] \xD0[#x430]
[#x43e][#x442][#x447][#x430][#x44f]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x439] [#x448][#x430][#x433].
[#x411][#x43e][#x44f][#x441][#x44c] [#x443][#x442][#x435][#x447][#x43a][#x438]
[#x438]\xD0[#x444][#x43e][#x440][#x43c][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x438] [#x43e]
[#x444][#x430][#x43a][#x442][#x435] [#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x430],
[#x43e]\xD0[#x438] [#x440][#x435][#x448][#x438]\xD0[#x438]
[#x441][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x44c] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e]
[#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x44f]\xD0[#x438][#x435][#x43c]
[#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#
x442][#x438]
\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e][#x43c]
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x438] [#x432]
"Washington Post" [#x43e] [#x442][#x43e][#x43c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x41a][#x43e][#x43c][#x438][#x442][#x435][#x442] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0
[#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0.
[#x422][#x430][#x43a][#x438][#x43c]
[#x43e][#x431][#x440][#x430][#x437][#x43e][#x43c], [#x43e]\xD0[#x438]
[#x43c][#x43e][#x433]\xD0[#x438]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x436][#x443][#x440]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x432],
[#x437][#x430][#x432][#x43e][#x435][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
\xD0[#x435][#x43c]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x441][#x43e][#x447][#x443][#x432][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x438][#x44f]
[#x438][#x437][#x431][#x438][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x439]
[#x43a][#x430][#x43a] [#x436][#x435][#x440][#x442][#x432][#x44b]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x445]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x432] [#x438]
[#x441][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x440][#x438][#x440][#x43e][#
x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c][#x441][#x44f] \xD0[#x430]
[#x438][#x437][#x431][#x438][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#
x439] [#x43a][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x438].

[#x41d][#x43e] [#x431][#x443][#x43a][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x430] [#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x443][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x439]
[#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x44c] [#x438][#x445] [#x436][#x434][#x430]\xD0
[#x435][#x449][#x451] [#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0
\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x44f][#x442]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x441][#x44e][#x440]\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x437].
[#x41d][#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x43e],
[#x438][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x443][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x439]
[#x441][#x435][#x431][#x44f] Guccifer 2.0,
\xD0[#x43e][#x44f][#x432][#x438]\xD0[#x441][#x44f] [#x432]
[#x441][#x435][#x442][#x438],
[#x443][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x436][#x434][#x430][#x44f],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x43e]\xD0
[#x44f][#x432]\xD0[#x44f][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x43c],
[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x430][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x43c] DNC.
[#x41e]\xD0 [#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0
[#x441][#x435][#x43a][#x440][#x435][#x442]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43a][#x443][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442] DNC [#x441][#x43e]
[#x441][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f][#x43c][#x438]
[#x438][#x437] [#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x44c][#x435] \xD0[#x430]
[#x433]-\xD0[#x430] [#x422][#x440][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430] [#x438]
[#x435][#x449][#x435] [#x441] [#x434][#x435][#x441][#x44f][#x442][#x43e][#x43a]
[#x434][#x440][#x443][#x433][#x438][#x445]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43a][#x443][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x43e][#x432],
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x436][#x434][#x430][#x44e][#x449
][#x438][#x445], [#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e] \xD0[#x435]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x43a][#x438], [#x430]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x438]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43a][#x443][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x44b].

«[#x418] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e] \xD0[#x438][#x448][#x44c]
[#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x430][#x44f] [#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442][#x44c]
[#x432][#x441][#x435][#x445]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43a][#x443][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x43e][#x432],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x435] [#x44f]
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0 [#x438][#x437]
[#x441][#x435][#x442][#x435][#x439]
[#x414][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x43e][#x432]\xC2,
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x430]\xD0 [#x43e]\xD0. [#x410]
[#x437][#x430][#x442][#x435][#x43c] [#x447][#x442][#x43e]-[#x442][#x43e]
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x435]
[#x443][#x433][#x440][#x43e][#x436][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x435][#x435]:
«[#x411][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x448][#x443][#x44e]
[#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442][#x44c]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43a][#x443][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x43e][#x432],
[#x442][#x44b][#x441][#x44f][#x447][#x438]
[#x444][#x430][#x439]\xD0[#x43e][#x432] [#x438]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x435][#x43c], [#x44f] [#x43e][#x442][#x434][#x430]\xD0
WikiLeaks. [#x41e]\xD0[#x438] [#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x440][#x43e] [#x438][#x445]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x443][#x44e][#x442]\xC2.

[#x41f]\xD0[#x43e][#x445][#x43e] [#x443][#x436][#x435] [#x442][#x43e],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x44b]
[#x43c][#x435][#x441][#x44f][#x446][#x430][#x43c][#x438]
[#x448]\xD0[#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x438] [#x432]
[#x441][#x435][#x442][#x438]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x438][#x442][#x435][#x442][#x430].
[#x422][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x44c] [#x436][#x435]
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x44f]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43a][#x443][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x43e][#x432]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x432][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x430]
[#x43e][#x431][#x44b][#x447]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x448]\xD0[#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x436] [#x432]
[#x447][#x442][#x43e]-[#x442][#x43e] [#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x435]
[#x443][#x433][#x440][#x43e][#x436][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x435][#x435]:
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x439]
[#x441][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x430][#x436],
\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x443][#x435][#
x43c][#x443][#x44e], \xD0[#x435]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x434][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x443][#x44e][#x441][#x44f]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x44e]
[#x443][#x433][#x440][#x43e][#x437][#x443]
[#x414][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43c].

Guccifer 2.0
\xD0[#x43e][#x437][#x430][#x438][#x43c][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e][#x432][#x430
]\xD0 [#x43a]\xD0[#x438][#x447][#x43a][#x443] [#x443]
[#x434][#x440][#x443][#x433][#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x430],
[#x440][#x443][#x43c][#x44b]\xD0[#x430],
\xD0[#x430][#x437][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x432][#x448][#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x441][#x435][#x431][#x44f] Guccifer,
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x439] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0
[#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0 [#x432]
[#x442][#x44e][#x440][#x44c][#x43c][#x443] [#x437][#x430]
[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c] \xD0[#x438][#x447]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x432]
[#x431][#x44b][#x432][#x448][#x435][#x433][#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430]
[#x414][#x436][#x43e][#x440][#x434][#x436][#x430]
[#x411][#x443][#x448][#x430]-[#x43c]\xD0[#x430][#x434][#x448][#x435][#x433][#x43
e], [#x431][#x44b][#x432][#x448][#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x413][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x435][#x43a][#x440][#x435][#x442][#x430][#x440][#x
44f] [#x41a][#x43e]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x430]
[#x41f][#x430][#x443][#x44d]\xD0\xD0[#x430] [#x438]
[#x434][#x440][#x443][#x433][#x438][#x445]
[#x432][#x44b][#x434][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x445][#x441][#x44f]
\xD0[#x44e][#x434][#x435][#x439]. [#x42d][#x442][#x43e][#x442]
\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x44b][#x439] [#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440],
\xD0[#x43e][#x445][#x43e][#x436][#x435], [#x445][#x43e][#x442][#x435]\xD0
\xD0[#x43e][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430][#x442][#x44c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x44d][#x43a][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x442
][#x44b] DNC [#x432] CrowdStrike [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432][#x44b],
[#x43e][#x431][#x432][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x432]
[#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x44e]. Guccifer 2.0
\xD0[#x430][#x437][#x432][#x430]\xD0 [#x441][#x435][#x431][#x44f]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x43c]-[#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x43
e][#x447][#x43a][#x43e][#x439] [#x438]
[#x432][#x44b][#x441][#x43c][#x435][#x44f]\xD0 CrowdStrike [#x437][#x430]
[#x442][#x43e], [#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x43e]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x430][#x437][#x44b][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x443][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x445]
«[#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x443][#x448][#x451]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c][#x438]\xC2.

[#x41d][#x43e]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x438],
[#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x435] [#x432]
[#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x430][#x439]\xD0-[#x440][#x435][#x436][#x438][#x43c][#x435],
[#x431][#x44b][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x43e]
[#x432][#x44b][#x447][#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x438] [#x435][#x433][#x43e].
[#x428][#x443][#x442][#x43a][#x438] [#x440][#x430][#x434][#x438]
[#x41b][#x43e][#x440][#x435]\xD0[#x446][#x43e]
[#x424][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438]-[#x411][#x438][#x43
a][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x439],
[#x436][#x443][#x440]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x442],
\xD0[#x438][#x448][#x443][#x449][#x438][#x439] [#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x418]\xD0[#x442][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x435][#x442]-[#x438][#x437][#x434][#x430]\
xD0[#x438][#x44f] Motherboard,
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44b][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x44f]
[#x441][#x432][#x44f][#x437][#x430][#x442][#x44c][#x441][#x44f] [#x441] Guccifer
2.0, \xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x430][#x432] [#x435][#x43c][#x443]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435] [#x432] Twitter.

«[#x423][#x434][#x438][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e],
\xD0[#x43e] [#x43e]\xD0 \xD0[#x43e][#x447][#x442][#x438]
[#x441][#x440][#x430][#x437][#x443]
[#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x442][#x438]\xD0\xC2,
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x441][#x44f]
[#x424][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438]-[#x411][#x438][#x43
a][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x439]. [#x41e][#x434]\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x43e]
[#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x430] [#x434][#x440][#x443][#x433][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x446][#x435] \xD0[#x430][#x434] \xD0[#x438][#x43c]
[#x433]\xD0[#x443][#x43c][#x44f][#x442][#x441][#x44f]. «[#x42f]
[#x441]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x438]\xD0 [#x435][#x433][#x43e],
[#x437][#x430][#x447][#x435][#x43c] [#x43e]\xD0 [#x44d][#x442][#x43e]
[#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430][#x435][#x442], [#x438] [#x43e]\xD0
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0, [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x445][#x43e][#x442][#x435]\xD0
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x438]\xD0\xD0[#x44e][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x43e][#x432],
[#x43c][#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x443][#x44e]
«[#x437][#x430][#x43a][#x443]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x443]\xC2. [#x41e]\xD0
\xD0[#x430][#x437][#x432][#x430]\xD0 [#x441][#x435][#x431][#x44f]
\xD0[#x44e][#x431][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x43c]
[#x413][#x443][#x447][#x447][#x438]. [#x41e]\xD0
[#x443][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x436][#x434][#x430]\xD0,
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x43e]\xD0 [#x440][#x443][#x43c][#x44b]\xD0\xC2.

[#x42d][#x442][#x43e] \xD0[#x430][#x442][#x43e]\xD0[#x43a]\xD0[#x443]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x424][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438]-[#x411][#x438][#x43
a][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x44f] \xD0[#x430]
[#x43c][#x44b][#x441]\xD0[#x44c]. [#x41f][#x440][#x438]
\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x43e][#x449][#x438] Google Translate [#x43e]\xD0
[#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432][#x438]\xD0
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x433][#x430][#x435][#x43c][#x43
e][#x43c][#x443] [#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x443]
\xD0[#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e]
[#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x43e][#x432] \xD0[#x430]
[#x440][#x443][#x43c][#x44b]\xD0[#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x44f][#x437][#x44b][#x43a][#x435] [#x438]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x438]\xD0
[#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x442][#x44b]. [#x41a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430]
[#x442][#x43e][#x442] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0 [#x432]\xD0[#x435]
[#x441][#x435][#x442][#x438], [#x433]-\xD0
[#x424][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438]-[#x411][#x438][#x43
a][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x439]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x438]\xD0
[#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x442][#x44b] [#x443] \xD0[#x430][#x440][#x44b]
\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x439]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e] [#x44f][#x437][#x44b][#x43a][#x430],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x435]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x438]\xD0[#x438] [#x435][#x43c][#x443],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] Guccifer 2.0 [#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x436][#x435]
[#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x437][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0 Google
Translate - [#x438] [#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44f][#x442]\xD0[#x43e], [#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x43e]\xD0
\xD0[#x435] [#x440][#x443][#x43c][#x44b]\xD0, [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x443][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x436][#x434][#x430]\xD0.

[#x41a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440]-[#x438][#x441][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x43
e][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x438] \xD0[#x430][#x448]\xD0[#x438]
[#x434][#x440][#x443][#x433][#x438][#x435] [#x443]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x438],
[#x443][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x435]
\xD0[#x430] [#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x44e].
[#x414][#x43e][#x43a][#x443][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x44b] Microsoft Word,
[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][
#x435] Guccifer 2.0, [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438]
[#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x430][#x43a][#x442][#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x
432][#x430]\xD0[#x44b] [#x43a][#x435][#x43c]-[#x442][#x43e],
[#x43a][#x442][#x43e] \xD0[#x430][#x437][#x44b][#x432][#x430]\xD0
[#x441][#x435][#x431][#x44f]
\xD0[#x43e]-[#x440][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x43a][#x438]
[#x424][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x441][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x42d][#x434][#x43c][#x443]\xD0[#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x43c
] - \xD0[#x441][#x435][#x432][#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x43e][#x43c],
[#x43e][#x447][#x435][#x432][#x438][#x434]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x440][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c] [#x432]
\xD0[#x430][#x43c][#x44f][#x442][#x44c] [#x43e][#x431]
[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x435]
[#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439]
[#x442][#x430][#x439]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x446][#x438][#x438]
[#x424][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x441][#x435]
[#x42d][#x434][#x43c][#x443]\xD0[#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x438][#x447][#x435]
[#x414][#x437][#x435][#x440][#x436][#x438]\xD0[#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c].
[#x41d][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x
435] [#x441][#x441][#x44b]\xD0[#x43a][#x438] [#x432]
[#x442][#x435][#x43a][#x441][#x442][#x435] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438]
[#x43e][#x442][#x43c][#x435][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x44b]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x43
8][#x44f][#x43c][#x438] \xD0[#x430]
[#x440][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x44f][#x437][#x44b][#x43a][#x435],
[#x441][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c][#x438] [#x441]
\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x43e][#x449][#x44c][#x44e]
[#x440][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x44f][#x437][#x44b][#x447]\xD0[#x43e
][#x439] [#x432][#x435][#x440][#x441][#x438][#x435][#x439] Word.

[#x41a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430]
[#x424][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438]-[#x411][#x438][#x43
a][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x44e]
[#x443][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c]
[#x432][#x442][#x44f]\xD0[#x443][#x442][#x44c] Guccifer 2.0 [#x432]
[#x430][#x43a][#x442][#x438][#x432]\xD0[#x443][#x44e]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x443], [#x442][#x43e]
[#x43e]\xD0 [#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x443][#x436][#x438]\xD0,
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x442][#x43e]\xD0 [#x438]
[#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x44b] [#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x441][#x43e][#x431][#x435][#x441][#x435][#x434]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430]
[#x438][#x437][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c].
«[#x421]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x432][#x430] [#x43e]\xD0 [#x431][#x44b]\xD0
[#x431][#x435][#x437][#x437][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]
[#x438] [#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x442]\xD0[#x438][#x432][#x44b][#x43c].
[#x421]\xD0[#x443][#x441][#x442][#x44f]
\xD0[#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e]
\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x44c] [#x43e]\xD0 [#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0
[#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x44b][#x432][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x43e]-[#x433][#x440][#
x443][#x431][#x44b][#x43c] [#x438] [#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x435]
[#x440][#x430][#x441][#x447][#x451][#x442]\xD0[#x438][#x432][#x44b][#x43c]\xC2,
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0 [#x43e]\xD0. «[#x42d][#x442][#x43e]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e] \xD0[#x43e][#x445][#x43e][#x436][#x435] \xD0[#x430]
[#x433][#x440][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x443] \xD0[#x44e][#x434][#x435][#x439] [#x438]
[#x43e][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]
\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x43a][#x443][#x44e]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44b][#x442][#x43a][#x443]
[#x441][#x43a][#x440][#x44b][#x442][#x44c] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e]\xC2.

[#x42d][#x43a][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x442][#x44b] \xD0[#x43e]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x431][#x435][#x437][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x441
]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438] \xD0[#x440][#x438][#x448]\xD0[#x438] [#x43a]
[#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x443] [#x436][#x435]
[#x437][#x430][#x43a]\xD0[#x44e][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44e] \xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x443] DCLeaks.com,
[#x441][#x430][#x439][#x442][#x430],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x439]
[#x432][#x43e][#x437]\xD0[#x438][#x43a] [#x432] [#x438][#x44e]\xD0[#x435],
\xD0[#x43e][#x437][#x438][#x446][#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x440][#x443][#x44e][#
x449][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x44f] [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x430]
«[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x442][#x438][#x432][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x432]\x
C2, \xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x443][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x439] [#x432]
[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x432]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c]
[#x443][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x434][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43a][#x443][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x44b]. [#x418]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x442] [#x441][#x430][#x439][#x442]
[#x432][#x44b][#x433]\xD0[#x44f][#x434][#x435]\xD0 [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x433][#x440][#x443][#x431][#x43e][#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x440][#x44b][#x442][#x438][#x435] [#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x442][#x435][#x445] [#x436][#x435] [#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x44b][#x445]
[#x440][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x445],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x435]
[#x443][#x43a][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43a][#x443][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x44b].
[#x41f][#x440][#x438][#x43c][#x435][#x447][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#
x43e], [#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x441][#x430][#x439][#x442] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0
[#x437][#x430][#x440][#x435][#x433][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x438][#x440][#x
43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0 [#x432] [#x430]\xD0[#x440][#x435]\xD0[#x435],
\xD0[#x430][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x44f] \xD0[#x430]
[#x43c][#x44b][#x441]\xD0[#x44c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x44f]
[#x433][#x440][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x43a][#x430]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x432]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x433][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x432][#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#
x44c] [#x437][#x430][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x435][#x435],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b]
[#x432][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e][#x436][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x434] [#x447][#x435][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]
\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x443][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x434][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
[#x438][#x43c][#x438].

[#x41a][#x440][#x43e][#x43c][#x435] [#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e],
[#x442][#x43e], [#x447][#x442][#x43e] Guccifer 2.0
[#x432][#x44b][#x43a]\xD0[#x430][#x434][#x44b][#x432][#x430]\xD0 \xD0[#x430]
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x435][#x43c] [#x441][#x430][#x439][#x442][#x435],
[#x43e]\xD0 \xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x440][#x44f][#x43c][#x443][#x44e]
\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44b]\xD0[#x430]\xD0
[#x43c][#x430][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x44b] \xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x44c][#x431][#x435]
[#x440][#x430][#x437]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x431]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x432] [#x438]
[#x438][#x437][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x439].
[#x41d][#x435]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x449][#x430][#x44e][#x449
][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x44f] \xD0[#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x43a]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43a][#x443][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x43e][#x432]
[#x43e][#x442] Guccifer 2.0
\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x44f]\xD0\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x440][#x44b][#x432][#x430]\xD0
[#x43e][#x431][#x43c][#x435]\xD0
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f][#x43c][#x438]
[#x414][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x43e][#x432]. 6
[#x438][#x44e]\xD0[#x44f], [#x437][#x430] 12 [#x434]\xD0[#x435][#x439]
[#x434][#x43e]
[#x41d][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43
e] [#x441][#x44a][#x435][#x437][#x434][#x430]
[#x420][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43
a][#x43e][#x439] \xD0[#x430][#x440][#x442][#x438][#x438] Guccifer
[#x432][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e][#x436][#x438]\xD0 «\xD0\xD0[#x430]\xD0
[#x431][#x43e][#x44f]\xC2,
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x433][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][
#x439] DNC, [#x438] [#x431][#x44e][#x434][#x436][#x435][#x442] \xD0[#x430]
[#x43e][#x440][#x433][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x437][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x44e]
[#x435][#x433][#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x442][#x438][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x435][#x439][#x441][#x442
][#x432][#x438][#x44f]. [#x414]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x420][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x446][#x43
5][#x432] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x437][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x442][#x44b][#x43c][#x438]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x44f][#x43c][#x438]
[#x438]\xD0[#x441][#x430][#x439][#x434][#x435][#x440][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439
] [#x438]\xD0[#x444][#x43e][#x440][#x43c][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x438].

[#x417][#x430][#x442][#x435][#x43c] Wikileaks, [#x43a][#x443][#x434][#x430]
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x435]
[#x438][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
[#x438][#x437][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435], [#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x43c][#x430][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x430]\xD0,
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x439] [#x432]
[#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x435] [#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x430] -
[#x43a][#x430][#x43a] Guccifer 2.0 [#x438]
[#x43e][#x431][#x435][#x449][#x430]\xD0. 22 [#x438][#x44e]\xD0[#x44f],
[#x437][#x430] [#x442][#x440][#x438] [#x434]\xD0[#x44f] [#x434][#x43e]
\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x430]
[#x41d][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43
e] [#x441][#x44a][#x435][#x437][#x434][#x430]
[#x420][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43
a][#x43e][#x439] \xD0[#x430][#x440][#x442][#x438][#x438] [#x421][#x428][#x410]
[#x432] [#x424][#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x444][#x438][#x438],
Wikileaks [#x432][#x431][#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x438]\xD0 44053
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c][#x43c][#x430],
[#x443][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x434][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445] [#x432] DNC
[#x441] 17761
\xD0[#x440][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435][#x43c].
[#x41d][#x435][#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x435] [#x438][#x437]
[#x44d][#x442][#x438][#x445]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x439]
[#x434][#x430][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438] \xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44f][#x442][#x44c],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x440][#x443][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e]
DNC \xD0[#x438][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x448][#x443][#x44e]
[#x441][#x438][#x43c]\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x438][#x44e] [#x43a]
[#x433]-[#x436][#x435] [#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0 \xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x440][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44e] [#x441] [#x435][#x451]
[#x441][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x433]-\xD0[#x43e][#x43c]
[#x421][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x435][#x440][#x441][#x43e][#x43c].

[#x42d][#x442][#x43e] \xD0[#x435]
[#x448][#x43e][#x43a][#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x44e][#x434][#x435][#x439]; [#x432] [#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x446][#x435]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x446][#x43e][#x432], [#x433]-\xD0
[#x421][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x435][#x440][#x441] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0
\xD0[#x435][#x437][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x441][#x438][#x43c][#x44b][#x43c]
[#x441][#x43e][#x446][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x43c],
[#x430] \xD0[#x435]
[#x434][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x43e][#x43c] [#x432]
[#x442][#x435][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x433][#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43e][#x434][#x430] [#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x44b] [#x432]
[#x41a][#x43e]\xD0[#x433][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x441][#x435], [#x432]
[#x442][#x43e] [#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x44f] [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x433]-[#x436][#x430] [#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x430] [#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x43e][#x439] [#x438][#x437]
[#x437][#x432][#x451][#x437][#x434] \xD0[#x430][#x440][#x442][#x438][#x438]
\xD0[#x430] \xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x442][#x44f][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x438]
[#x434][#x435][#x441][#x44f][#x442][#x43a][#x43e][#x432] \xD0[#x435][#x442].
[#x41d][#x43e]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c][#x43c][#x430],
[#x441][#x43e][#x434][#x435][#x440][#x436][#x430][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x435]
[#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430]
\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x439]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44
2][#x438] [#x438]
[#x43e][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x440][#x431]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f],
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x43e][#x437]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x438]
[#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x433][#x430][#x442][#x43e][#x432]
[#x421][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x435][#x440][#x441][#x430],
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x431][#x44b][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x445] [#x432]
[#x424][#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x444][#x438][#x44e].
[#x413]-[#x436][#x430]
[#x412][#x430][#x441][#x441][#x435][#x440][#x43c][#x430]\xD0-[#x428][#x443]\xD0[
#x44c][#x446] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x430]
[#x432][#x44b]\xD0[#x443][#x436][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430]
[#x443][#x439][#x442][#x438] [#x432]
[#x43e][#x442][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432][#x43a][#x443]
\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x443]\xD0[#x435]
[#x43e][#x442][#x43a][#x440][#x44b][#x442][#x438][#x44f]
[#x441][#x44a][#x435][#x437][#x434][#x430], [#x433][#x434][#x435]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x430]
\xD0\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x430]
[#x431][#x44b][#x442][#x44c]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x435][#x434][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#
x43c].

[#x413]-\xD0 [#x422][#x440][#x430][#x43c]\xD0, [#x43a]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x43c][#x443]
[#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x438]
[#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x438][#x434][#x430][#x442] [#x43e][#x442]
[#x440][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x446][#x43
5][#x432], [#x431][#x44b]\xD0 [#x432]
[#x432][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x433][#x435] [#x43e][#x442]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x436][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[
#x43e][#x433][#x43e] [#x448][#x43e][#x43a][#x430] [#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x43e][#x432] [#x438]
\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0
[#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x437][#x43e][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
Twitter [#x438] [#x432][#x44b][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x441] [#x440][#x435][#x447][#x430][#x43c][#x438],
[#x437][#x430][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x44f][#x44f]
[#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x44f] \xD0[#x430]
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x44f][#x445] [#x432]
Wikileaks. 25 [#x438][#x44e]\xD0[#x44f] [#x43e]\xD0
[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0
\xD0[#x435][#x433][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x44b][#x441]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][
#x435] [#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435] [#x432]
Twitter: «[#x41d][#x43e][#x432][#x430][#x44f]
[#x445][#x43e][#x445][#x43c][#x430] [#x432]
[#x433][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x435]\xC2, \xD0[#x438][#x441][#x430]\xD0
[#x43e]\xD0, «[#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x44f]
[#x441]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x430]
[#x433][#x443][#x431][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c][#x43c][#x430] DNC,
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x435] \xD0[#x435]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x430][#x442][#x44c], \xD0[#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x43c][#x443]
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x41f][#x443][#x442][#x438]\xD0 [#x43c]\xD0[#x435]
[#x441][#x438][#x43c]\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x438][#x437][#x438][#x440][#x443][#x435
][#x442]\xC2.

[#x41d][#x43e]
[#x43e][#x431][#x44a][#x44f][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x430][#x44f] Wikileaks
[#x432][#x43e][#x439]\xD0[#x430] [#x435][#x449][#x451] \xD0[#x435]
[#x437][#x430][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x448][#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x44c]. 7
[#x43e][#x43a][#x442][#x44f][#x431][#x440][#x44f], [#x437][#x430]
[#x43c][#x435][#x441][#x44f][#x446] [#x434][#x43e]
[#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x432], [#x441][#x430][#x439][#x442]
\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0 [#x441][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x44e]
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x439]
[#x442][#x44b][#x441][#x44f][#x447] \xD0[#x438][#x447]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x435][#x43c],
[#x430][#x434][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x43a] [#x438] [#x43e][#x442] [#x438][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x438]
[#x433]-\xD0[#x430] [#x41f][#x43e][#x434][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x430],
[#x440][#x443][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44f
]
[#x438][#x437][#x431][#x438][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#
x433][#x43e] [#x448][#x442][#x430][#x431][#x430] [#x433]-[#x436][#x438]
[#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0.

[#x412] [#x442][#x43e][#x442] [#x436][#x435] [#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]
[#x421][#x428][#x410]
[#x43e][#x444][#x438][#x446][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x43e][#x431][#x432][#x438]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442][#x432][#
x43e] [#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x438] [#x432] [#x442][#x43e][#x43c],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x43e]\xD0[#x43e] [#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x438][#x442]
[#x437][#x430]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x43c][#x438]
[#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x430][#x43c][#x438] [#x432]
[#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x43c][#x435][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c]
[#x437][#x430][#x44f][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x438]
[#x434][#x438][#x440][#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x430]
[#x41d][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x43a][#x438] [#x438]
[#x41c][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x430
] [#x432]\xD0[#x443][#x442][#x440][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x435][#x439]
[#x431][#x435][#x437][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438],
[#x430] [#x433]-\xD0 [#x422][#x440][#x430][#x43c]\xD0
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x438]\xD0
[#x441][#x438]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x435][#x439][#x448][#x438][#x439]
[#x443][#x434][#x430][#x440] [#x432]
[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x443]\xD0[#x44c][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x435]
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x438]
[#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x438], \xD0[#x430]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x439] [#x43e]\xD0
[#x431][#x430][#x445][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
[#x441][#x435][#x43a][#x441][#x443][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c][#x438]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43c][#x43e][#x433][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442
][#x432][#x430][#x43c][#x438] [#x43a]
[#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x449][#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x43c].

[#x42d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c][#x43c][#x430]
[#x41f][#x43e][#x434][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x430] [#x438]
[#x440][#x44f][#x434][#x43e][#x43c] \xD0[#x435]
[#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x44f]\xD0[#x438] [#x441]
[#x441][#x435]\xD0[#x441][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]
[#x432][#x438][#x434][#x435][#x43e] [#x422][#x440][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430].
[#x41d][#x43e],
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x443][#x435][#x43c][#x44b][#x435]
[#x441][#x430][#x439][#x442][#x43e][#x43c] Wikileaks [#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]
[#x437][#x430] [#x434]\xD0[#x451][#x43c] [#x432]
[#x442][#x435][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
\xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434]\xD0[#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x43c][#x435][#x441][#x44f][#x446][#x430]
[#x438][#x437][#x431][#x438][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#
x439] [#x43a][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x438], [#x43e]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x44f]\xD0[#x43
8] [#x43c][#x430][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x44b]
[#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x431][#x435][#x441][#x447][#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x439]. [#x41e]\xD0[#x438]
[#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x440][#x435][#x447][#x438] [#x433]-[#x436][#x438]
[#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0,
[#x43e][#x431][#x440][#x430][#x449][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435] [#x43a]
[#x43a][#x440][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]
[#x431][#x430]\xD0[#x43a][#x430][#x43c],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x435] [#x43e]\xD0[#x430]
[#x43e][#x442][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x44c]
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c].
[#x41e]\xD0[#x438]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x442][#x440][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f],
[#x441][#x443][#x449][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x443][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x
435] [#x432]\xD0[#x443][#x442][#x440][#x438]
[#x438][#x437][#x431][#x438][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#
x439] [#x43a][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x438],
[#x432][#x43a]\xD0[#x44e][#x447][#x430][#x44f]
\xD0[#x435][#x441][#x43e][#x433]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x438][#x435]
[#x448][#x442][#x430][#x442]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x441][#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x443][#x434]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432]
\xD0[#x43e] \xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x443]
[#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x436]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
\xD0[#x43e][#x436][#x435][#x440][#x442][#x432][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#
x439] [#x432] [#x424][#x43e]\xD0[#x434]
[#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0,
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x435], \xD0[#x43e] [#x438][#x445]
[#x43c]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44e], [#x432][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x44f][#x442]
[#x438][#x43c][#x438][#x434][#x436][#x443]
[#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x438][#x434][#x430][#x442][#x430], \xD0[#x435]
[#x433][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x440][#x44f] [#x443][#x436][#x435] [#x43e]
[#x436][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x431][#x435] [#x433]-[#x436][#x438]
[#x422][#x44d]\xD0[#x434][#x435]\xD0, [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x438]\xD0[#x441][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x43a][#x442][#x44b] [#x433]-[#x436][#x438]
[#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0
«[#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x438] [#x43e][#x442]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x442][#x438][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]\xC2.

«[#x42f] [#x441][#x433][#x43e][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x430] [#x43e][#x442]
[#x441][#x442][#x44b][#x434][#x430]\xC2,
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x44c]
[#x433]-[#x436][#x430] [#x422][#x44d]\xD0[#x434][#x435]\xD0 [#x432]
[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x435][#x440][#x432][#x44c][#x44e]. [#x41e]\xD0[#x430]
[#x432][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x435][#x442],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x435][#x451]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c][#x43c][#x430] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438]
[#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x44b]
\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x443]\xD0[#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#
x445] [#x434][#x435][#x431][#x430][#x442][#x43e][#x432]. «[#x42f]
[#x441][#x445][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x44c]
[#x437][#x430] [#x433][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x443] [#x438]
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x430], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x435] [#x43c][#x43e][#x433][#x443]
\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x442][#x44c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x438][#x441][#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x438][#x442]
[#x441][#x43e] [#x43c]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]\xC2. [#x425][#x43e][#x442][#x44f]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x430] [#x440][#x435][#x433][#x443]\xD0[#x44f][#x440]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x43e][#x44f][#x432]\xD0[#x44f]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x44c] [#x441]
[#x433]-[#x436][#x43e][#x439] [#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0 [#x432]
[#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x44d][#x444][#x438][#x440][#x430][#x445],
\xD0[#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x43c] [#x43e]\xD0[#x430]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x430]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e] [#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x44c],
[#x442][#x430][#x43a] [#x43a][#x430][#x43a] [#x432][#x441][#x435]
[#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x44b] [#x43a] \xD0[#x435][#x439]
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c] [#x43a]
[#x441][#x43e][#x434][#x435][#x440][#x436][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x44e]
[#x44d][#x442][#x438][#x445] \xD0[#x438][#x441][#x435][#x43c].

[#x413]-[#x436][#x430] [#x422][#x44d]\xD0[#x434][#x435]\xD0,
[#x43a][#x430][#x43a] [#x438] [#x434][#x440][#x443][#x433][#x438][#x435]
[#x414][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x44b],
[#x447][#x44c][#x438]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
[#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x44f]\xD0[#x438][#x435][#x43c]
[#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#
x442][#x438], [#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x430],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x435][#x439]
[#x43e][#x447][#x435][#x432][#x438][#x434]\xD0[#x43e], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
Wikileaks [#x438][#x437][#x43e] [#x432][#x441][#x435][#x445] [#x441][#x438]\xD0
\xD0[#x44b][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x44f]
\xD0[#x430][#x432][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x448][#x442][#x430][#x431][#x443] [#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0.
«[#x415][#x441]\xD0[#x438] [#x432][#x44b]
[#x437][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x438][#x442][#x435][#x441][#x44c] [#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x437][#x440][#x430][#x447]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438],
[#x442][#x43e] [#x441][#x440][#x430][#x437][#x443]
[#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x44f][#x435][#x442][#x435]
[#x432][#x441][#x435]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c][#x43c][#x430]\xC2,
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x430] [#x43e]\xD0[#x430].
«[#x41d][#x43e] [#x43e]\xD0[#x438] [#x445][#x43e][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x447][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x44c] [#x435][#x439]
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c]. [#x422][#x43e] [#x435][#x441][#x442][#x44c]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x43e][#x442] 1800 [#x434][#x43e] 3000 \xD0[#x438][#x441][#x435][#x43c] [#x432]
[#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xC2.

[#x428][#x442][#x430][#x431] [#x422][#x440][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430]
[#x437][#x430][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x435][#x435] [#x437]\xD0[#x430]\xD0 [#x43e]
\xD0\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x430][#x445] Wikileaks. [#x417][#x430]
\xD0[#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e]
[#x434]\xD0[#x435][#x439] [#x434][#x43e]
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x438]
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x435][#x43c] [#x433]-\xD0[#x430]
[#x41f][#x43e][#x434][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x430],
[#x420][#x43e][#x434][#x436][#x435][#x440] [#x421][#x442][#x43e][#x443]\xD0,
[#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]
[#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x430] [#x432]
[#x448][#x442][#x430][#x431][#x435] [#x422][#x440][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430],
[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0
[#x432][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x436][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435] [#x432] Twitter
[#x43e] [#x442][#x43e][#x43c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x433][#x440][#x44f][#x434][#x435][#x442].

"[#x421][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x430]@ [#x421]
[#x425][#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x438] [#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0
\xD0[#x43e][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x43e]. # Wikileaks"

[#x41e][#x434]\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x43e] [#x432]
[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x435][#x440][#x432][#x44c][#x44e] [#x433]-\xD0
[#x421][#x442][#x43e][#x443]\xD0 \xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x430]\xD0,
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x43e]\xD0 \xD0[#x435]
[#x441][#x44b][#x433][#x440][#x430]\xD0 [#x432]
[#x443][#x442][#x435][#x447][#x43a][#x430][#x445]
\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430][#x43a][#x43e][#x439] [#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x438];
[#x43e]\xD0 [#x432][#x441][#x435][#x433][#x43e] \xD0[#x438][#x448][#x44c]
[#x441]\xD0[#x44b][#x448][#x430]\xD0 [#x43e][#x442]
[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x446][#x430],
[#x438][#x43c][#x435][#x432][#x448][#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x441][#x432][#x44f][#x437][#x438] [#x441] Wikileaks, [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x44d][#x442][#x438]
[#x443][#x431][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c][#x43c][#x430] [#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x440][#x43e]
[#x431][#x443][#x434][#x443][#x442]
[#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x44f]\xD0[#x438][#x435][#x43c]
[#x433]\xD0[#x430][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438].

[#x41e][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c] [#x438]
[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x430][#x43a][#x442][#x43e][#x440] Wikileaks
[#x414][#x436][#x443]\xD0[#x438][#x430]\xD0
[#x410][#x441][#x441][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x436]
[#x441][#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x442][#x438][#x432]\xD0[#x44f]\xD0[#x441][#x44
f] [#x432][#x44b][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x430][#x43c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x435][#x433][#x43e] [#x441][#x430][#x439][#x442] [#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0
[#x442][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x437][#x438][#x442][#x43e][#x43c] [#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x445]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x432],
[#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x445]
\xD0[#x430]
\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442][#x432][#
x43e] [#x433]-\xD0[#x430] [#x41f][#x443][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x430]
[#x438]\xD0[#x438] [#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x43e]\xD0
\xD0[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x44b][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x44f]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x43c][#x435][#x442][#x438][#x440][#x43e
][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x438][#x434][#x430][#x442][#x443][#x440][#x443]
[#x433]-[#x436][#x438] [#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0. [#x41d][#x43e]
[#x441][#x432][#x438][#x434][#x435][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442][#x432
][#x430] \xD0[#x43e] [#x43e][#x431][#x435][#x438][#x43c]
[#x44d][#x442][#x438][#x43c]
\xD0[#x43e][#x437][#x438][#x446][#x438][#x44f][#x43c]
[#x43e][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c]
[#x432][#x435][#x441][#x44c][#x43c][#x430]
[#x443][#x431][#x435][#x434][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c][#
x438]

[#x412][#x43e] [#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x44f]
[#x43e][#x431][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x430]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c][#x438]
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c][#x43c][#x430][#x43c][#x438] [#x433]-\xD0
[#x410][#x441][#x441][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x436]
[#x43e][#x442][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x44f]
[#x447][#x442][#x43e]-\xD0[#x438][#x431][#x43e]
[#x433][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x440][#x438][#x442][#x44c] \xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x443]
[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x447]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430]
[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x43c][#x430][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x432]
[#x434]\xD0[#x44f] Wikileaks. [#x41e]\xD0
[#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x438][#x446][#x430]\xD0
[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x43a][#x43e]
\xD0[#x435][#x433][#x430][#x442][#x438][#x432]\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
[#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x448][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435] [#x43a]
[#x433]-[#x436][#x435] [#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0 [#x432]
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x438][#x445]
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x447]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x432][#x44b][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f][#x445]
(«[#x41d][#x435]\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432][#x434][#x430]. [#x41d][#x43e]
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e]?
[#x414][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x439] [#x441][#x430][#x434]\xC2)
[#x438]\xD0[#x438] [#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x441][#x430][#x439][#x442]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x443][#x440][#x43e][#x447][#x438][#x432][#x430]\xD0
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x438]
[#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x43c][#x430][#x43a][#x441][#x438][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x435][#x433][#x430][#x442][#x438][#x432]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x432][#x43e][#x437][#x434][#x435][#x439][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x438][#x44f]
\xD0[#x430] [#x435][#x451]
[#x438][#x437][#x431][#x438][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x443][#
x44e] [#x43a][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x44e]. «Wikileaks
\xD0[#x440][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430][#x435][#x442]
[#x440][#x435][#x448][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f] \xD0[#x430]
[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x438]
[#x441][#x43e][#x431][#x44b][#x442][#x438][#x439]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438
], [#x432][#x43a]\xD0[#x44e][#x447][#x430][#x44f]
\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
\xD0[#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x44f][#x441][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x435]
[#x441][#x435]\xD0[#x441][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x438]\xC2,
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x430]\xD0 [#x43e]\xD0.

[#x413]-\xD0 [#x410][#x441][#x441][#x430]\xD0[#x436]
[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x440][#x438]\xD0 [#x432][#x44b][#x432][#x43e][#x434]
[#x43e] [#x437][#x430][#x44f][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x438]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD
0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x445] [#x430][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x441][#x442][#x432]
[#x43e][#x442] 7 [#x43e][#x43a][#x442][#x44f][#x431][#x440][#x44f],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x435]
[#x433]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x438][#x442], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x443][#x442][#x435][#x447][#x43a][#x438]
«\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x44b] \xD0[#x430]
[#x432][#x43c][#x435][#x448][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442][#x432
][#x43e] [#x432]
[#x438][#x437][#x431][#x438][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#
x439] \xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x446][#x435][#x441][#x441] [#x432]
[#x421][#x428][#x410]\xC2.

«[#x42d][#x442][#x43e] \xD0[#x435][#x432][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x43e]\xC2,
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x430]\xD0 [#x43e]\xD0. «[#x41a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x433]\xD0[#x430][#x448][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x430][#x44f
] [#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x430], [#x43c][#x44b]
[#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x435][#x43c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x435] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e].
[#x418][#x437][#x434][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x438],
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x443][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x435]
[#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x439]\xD0[#x443][#x44e]
[#x43e][#x441][#x432][#x435][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
[#x438]\xD0[#x444][#x43e][#x440][#x43c][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x44e]
[#x432][#x43e] [#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x44f]
[#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x432], [#x438]
[#x441][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x44f][#x44e][#x442]
[#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442][#x44c]
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x431][#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x432]\xC2.

[#x41e][#x434]\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x43e] [#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430]
[#x435][#x433][#x43e] [#x441]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x438]\xD0[#x438] [#x43e]
[#x442][#x43e][#x43c], [#x432][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x442] \xD0[#x438]
[#x43e]\xD0, [#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x443][#x442][#x435][#x447][#x43a][#x438]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438] [#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x43e][#x439] [#x438][#x437]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x447][#x438]\xD0 \xD0[#x43e][#x431][#x435][#x434][#x44b]
[#x433]-\xD0[#x430] [#x422][#x440][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430], [#x433]-\xD0
[#x410][#x441][#x441][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x436] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0
[#x440][#x430][#x434] \xD0[#x440][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e] [#x441][#x435][#x431][#x435] [#x432]
[#x437][#x430][#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x433][#x443].
«[#x410][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x446][#x44b]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x44f][#x432]\xD0[#x44f]\xD0[#x438]
[#x43e][#x433][#x440][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x435][#x440][#x435][#x441] [#x43a]
\xD0[#x430][#x448][#x438][#x43c][#x438]
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x44f][#x43c][#x438]\x
C2, \xD0[#x438][#x441][#x430]\xD0 [#x43e]\xD0. «[#x41f][#x43e]
[#x441][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x438][#x43a][#x435] Facebook,
Wikileaks [#x431][#x44b]\xD0 [#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x43e][#x439]
[#x443]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439]
[#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x439] [#x432]
[#x43e][#x43a][#x442][#x44f][#x431][#x440][#x435]\xC2.

[#x425][#x43e][#x442][#x44f] [#x433]-\xD0
[#x410][#x441][#x441][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x436] [#x442][#x430][#x43a] \xD0[#x435]
[#x433][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x440][#x438]\xD0,
\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x448][#x435][#x439]
[#x437][#x430][#x449][#x438][#x442][#x43e][#x439] [#x434]\xD0[#x44f] Wikileaks
[#x43c][#x43e][#x436][#x435][#x442] [#x441][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x432]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x445
] [#x421][#x41c][#x418]. [#x41a][#x430][#x436][#x434][#x43e][#x435]
[#x43a][#x440][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
[#x438][#x437][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435],
[#x432][#x43a]\xD0[#x44e][#x447][#x430][#x44f] The Times,
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x43c]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e][#x447][#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][
#x435] [#x438][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x438][#x438],
[#x441][#x441][#x44b]\xD0[#x430][#x44f][#x441][#x44c] \xD0[#x430]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c][#x43c][#x430] DNC [#x438]
[#x41f][#x43e][#x434][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x44b],
[#x432][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e][#x436][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435] \xD0[#x430]
Wikileaks,
[#x444][#x430][#x43a][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438]
[#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x44f][#x441][#x44c]
[#x438]\xD0[#x441][#x442][#x440][#x443][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x445]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x446][#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x436][#x431].

[#x413]-\xD0 [#x41f][#x443][#x442][#x438]\xD0,
[#x438][#x437][#x443][#x447][#x430][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x439]
[#x432][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x447]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x435][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x430
], [#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x437][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0
[#x434][#x432][#x430] [#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x432]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x441][#x442][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x430]
[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439
] [#x434][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438][#x438] -
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
[#x43a][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x438] [#x438]
\xD0[#x435][#x437][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x441][#x438][#x43c][#x44b][#x435]
[#x421][#x41c][#x418] - [#x432] [#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x438][#x445]
[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x435][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x430][#x445].
[#x418]\xD0[#x442][#x435][#x440][#x435][#x441] [#x421][#x41c][#x418] [#x43a]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c] [#x432]
[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x443]\xD0[#x44c][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x435]
[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x430]
[#x43c][#x430][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x430][#x43c] [#x438]
[#x438][#x445] [#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435],
[#x43e][#x431][#x440][#x430][#x449][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x435] \xD0[#x430]
[#x438][#x445]
[#x441][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x445][#x430][#x440][#x430][#x43a][#x442][#x435][#x440], [#x430] \xD0[#x435]
\xD0[#x430] [#x444][#x430][#x43a][#x442] [#x438][#x445]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x438][#x441][#x445][#x43e][#x436][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#
x44f] [#x438][#x437]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x445]
[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x447]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432],
[#x43e][#x431][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x43a][#x43e][#x438]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x43c]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x438][#x445], [#x447][#x44c][#x44f]
\xD0[#x438][#x447]\xD0[#x430][#x44f]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x430]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x430]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x430]
[#x432] [#x441][#x435][#x442][#x438].

«[#x427][#x442][#x43e] [#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x434][#x435][#x439][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#
x43e] [#x443][#x434][#x438][#x432][#x438]\xD0[#x43e]?\xC2 -
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x430] [#x433]-[#x436][#x430]
[#x422][#x44d]\xD0[#x434][#x435]\xD0, - «[#x42f] \xD0[#x435]
[#x43c][#x43e][#x433]\xD0[#x430]
\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x442][#x44c] [#x432] [#x442][#x43e],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x432][#x441][#x451] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e]
[#x43e][#x441][#x432][#x435][#x449][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x436][#x443][#x440]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x44b]\xC2.

[#x41f][#x41e][#x414][#x413][#x41e][#x422][#x41e][#x412][#x41a][#x410]
[#x420][#x415][#x410][#x41a][#x426][#x418][#x418]
[#x410][#x414][#x41c][#x418][#x41d][#x418][#x421][#x422][#x420][#x410][#x426][#x
418][#x418]

[#x412] [#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x43e][#x43c] [#x411][#x435]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43c][#x435]
[#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x442]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x438] [#x433]-\xD0[#x430]
[#x41e][#x431][#x430][#x43c][#x44b],
[#x43e][#x431][#x441][#x443][#x436][#x434][#x430][#x44f]
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x439] [#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x442] \xD0[#x430]
[#x44d][#x442][#x438] [#x441][#x43e][#x431][#x44b][#x442][#x438][#x44f],
\xD0[#x435][#x437][#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x442]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x448]\xD0[#x438] \xD0[#x430]
[#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x443]
[#x421][#x435][#x432][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x41a][#x43e][#x440][#x435][#x438].

[#x412] [#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x446][#x435] 2014 [#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x430]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x44b],
[#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x430][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x435]
\xD0[#x430] [#x41a][#x438][#x43c] [#x427][#x435]\xD0 [#x42b]\xD0[#x430],
[#x43c][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x43e][#x433][#x43e] [#x438]
\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x443][#x435][#
x43c][#x43e][#x433][#x43e] \xD0[#x438][#x434][#x435][#x440][#x430]
[#x421][#x435][#x432][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x41a][#x43e][#x440][#x435][#x438],
[#x43e][#x441][#x443][#x449][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x438]\xD0[#x438]
[#x445][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x448][#x43e]
[#x441]\xD0\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x443][#x4
4e] [#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x443] \xD0[#x430]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x44e] Sony Pictures Entertainment,
[#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438][#x442
][#x44c]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x443][#x440][#x43e][#x447][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x43a] [#x420][#x43e][#x436][#x434][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x443]
[#x432][#x44b][#x445][#x43e][#x434]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x435][#x434][#x438][#x438] [#x43e]
[#x437][#x430][#x433][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x440][#x435] [#x426][#x420][#x423]
[#x441] [#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e] [#x443][#x431][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x433]-\xD0[#x430] [#x41a][#x438][#x43c][#x430].

[#x412] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x43c] [#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x430][#x435]
[#x442][#x43e][#x436][#x435] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x44b]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x43c][#x435][#x442][#x438][#x440][#x443
][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x435]
[#x44d]\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x440][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]. [#x41d][#x43e]
[#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x44b][#x439]
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x448][#x43e][#x439]
[#x443][#x449][#x435][#x440][#x431] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x435][#x441][#x435]\xD0
[#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x430][#x43c]
[#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x43e][#x439]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x438] Sony:
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x435] 70
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x43e][#x432] [#x438][#x445]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x432]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x43a][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438]
[#x443]\xD0[#x438][#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x44b]
\xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x435] [#x438][#x445]
[#x437][#x430][#x440][#x430][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
[#x447][#x440][#x435][#x437][#x432][#x44b][#x447][#x430][#x439]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x43c][#x43e][#x449]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x444][#x43e][#x440][#x43c][#x43e][#x439]
[#x432][#x438][#x440][#x443][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x433][#x440][#x430][#x43c][#x43c][#x44b]. [#x412]
[#x442][#x435][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
\xD0[#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x438][#x445]
\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x436][#x431][#x44b
] \xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x438]
[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x447]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]
[#x437][#x430][#x440][#x430][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f].
[#x42d][#x442][#x43e] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438]
[#x421][#x435][#x432][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x430][#x44f]
[#x41a][#x43e][#x440][#x435][#x44f] [#x438] [#x435][#x435]
[#x440][#x443][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e].
[#x413]-\xD0 [#x41e][#x431][#x430][#x43c][#x430]
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x447]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x43e][#x431][#x432][#x438]\xD0[#x438]\xD0 [#x432] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x421][#x435][#x432][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x443][#x44e]
[#x41a][#x43e][#x440][#x435][#x44e] [#x438]
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x436][#x438]\xD0
[#x441][#x430]\xD0[#x43a][#x446][#x438][#x438],
[#x43e][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x435][#x441][#x44f]
\xD0[#x435] [#x441]\xD0[#x438][#x448][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x44d][#x444][#x444][#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x438][#x432]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c][#x438
]. [#x422][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430] [#x434][#x430][#x436][#x435]
[#x41a][#x438][#x442][#x430][#x439] [#x43e][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0
[#x441][#x43e][#x434][#x435][#x439][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x438][#x435],
\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x430][#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x433][#x43e]
[#x432][#x44b][#x440][#x443][#x431][#x438][#x432]
[#x418]\xD0[#x442][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x435][#x442]-[#x441][#x432][#x44f][#x437][
#x44c] [#x441] [#x41a][#x43e][#x440][#x435][#x435][#x439].

[#x41a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430] [#x432] [#x438][#x44e]\xD0[#x435]
\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x432][#x44b][#x435]
[#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x449][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
[#x421][#x438][#x442][#x443][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#
x43e] [#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x440][#x430], «[#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x44f][#x441]\xD0[#x43e], [#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x442]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x430][#x439] [#x441]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x43c]
[#x432][#x43c][#x435][#x448][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442][#x432
][#x43e][#x43c] [#x43e][#x43a][#x430][#x436][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
[#x433][#x43e][#x440][#x430][#x437][#x434][#x43e]
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x435]
[#x442][#x440][#x443][#x434]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]\xC2,
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0 [#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0 [#x438][#x437]
[#x443][#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432]
[#x44d][#x442][#x438][#x445] [#x432][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x435][#x447].
[#x421][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x448][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e]
[#x43e][#x447][#x435][#x432][#x438][#x434]\xD0[#x43e], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x440][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
[#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x433][#x43e][#x440][#x430][#x437][#x434][#x43e]
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x435]
[#x433]\xD0[#x443][#x431][#x43e][#x43a][#x438][#x43c]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435][#x43c]
[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439
] \xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x438][#x43a][#x438] [#x438]
[#x43c][#x430][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x441][#x43a][#x438]
[#x432]\xD0[#x430][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x438]
[#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x437][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x44
f]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x43c][#x435][#x442][#x438][#x440][#x443
][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x445]
[#x43c][#x430][#x442][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x432],
«[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x43c][#x430][#x442][#x430]\xC2,
[#x43a][#x430][#x43a] [#x43e]\xD0[#x438]
[#x433][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x440][#x44f][#x442].

[#x41e][#x434]\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x43e]
[#x43e][#x444][#x438][#x446][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43a]\xD0[#x430][#x434] [#x441]
[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x443]\xD0[#x44c][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43c][#x438
] «[#x430][#x442][#x442][#x440][#x438][#x431][#x443][#x446][#x438][#x438]\xC2
[#x432][#x441][#x435] [#x435][#x449][#x435] \xD0[#x435] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x443].

«[#x42d][#x442][#x43e] [#x442][#x44f]\xD0[#x443]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c]
[#x431][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x447]\xD0[#x43e]\xC2, -
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0 [#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0 [#x438][#x437]
[#x432][#x44b][#x441][#x43e][#x43a][#x438][#x445]
[#x447][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432]
[#x410][#x434][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430][#x446][#x438
][#x438], [#x436][#x430]\xD0[#x443][#x44f][#x441][#x44c] \xD0[#x430]
[#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x443] [#x437][#x430]
[#x441]\xD0[#x438][#x448][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x43c][#x435][#x434]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x432][#x438][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x43e][#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x43e][#x43a],
[#x441][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x440][#x433][#x430]\xD0[#x430
][#x43c][#x438].

[#x412] [#x430][#x432][#x433][#x443][#x441][#x442][#x435]
[#x433][#x440][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x430] \xD0[#x43e][#x434]
\xD0[#x430][#x437][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435][#x43c] «Shadow Brokers\xC2
[#x432][#x44b]\xD0[#x443][#x441][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x430]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0\xD0[#x435][#x43a][#x442]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x433][#x440][#x430][#x43c][#x43c]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x43e][#x431][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f],
\xD0[#x43e][#x445][#x43e][#x436][#x438][#x439] \xD0[#x430] [#x442][#x43e],
[#x447][#x435][#x43c]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x437][#x443][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
[#x410][#x433][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e]
[#x41d][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x431][#x435][#x437][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438]
([#x410][#x41d][#x411]) [#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x430]
[#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c] [#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x443][#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x43a][#x438]
«[#x437][#x430][#x43a]\xD0[#x430][#x434][#x43e][#x43a]\xC2,
[#x432][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x433][#x440][#x430][#x43c][#x43c],
[#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x437][#x443][#x435][#x43c][#x44b][#x445]
[#x434]\xD0[#x44f] [#x441][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x430]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x434][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x438]\xD0[#x438]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a].
[#x41a][#x43e][#x434] [#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x439]
[#x438]\xD0[#x444][#x43e][#x440][#x43c][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x438]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0 \xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x435]\xD0 [#x43e][#x442]
Tailored Access Operations,
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x440][#x430][#x437][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44
f] [#x410][#x41d][#x411],
[#x437][#x430][#x441][#x435][#x43a][#x440][#x435][#x447][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#
x439] [#x433][#x440][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x44b],
[#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x430][#x431][#x430][#x442][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x44e][#x
449][#x435][#x439] \xD0[#x440][#x438][#x435][#x43c][#x44b]
[#x441][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x430]
[#x438]\xD0[#x444][#x43e][#x440][#x43c][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x438] [#x438]
[#x432][#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x432][#x43e][#x439]\xD0[#x44b].

[#x415][#x441][#x442][#x44c] [#x43c]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435],
\xD0[#x43e][#x43a][#x430] [#x435][#x449][#x435] \xD0[#x435]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x436][#x434][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43
e][#x435], [#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x43a][#x43e][#x434] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0
[#x432][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e][#x436][#x435]\xD0 [#x432]
[#x43e][#x442][#x43a][#x440][#x44b][#x442][#x44b][#x439]
[#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0 [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x43
8][#x435]: \xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x431][#x443][#x439][#x442][#x435]
\xD0[#x43e][#x43a][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x44c][#x441][#x44f]
[#x441] \xD0[#x430][#x43c][#x438] [#x437][#x430] DNC, [#x438] [#x43c][#x44b]
[#x432][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e][#x436][#x438][#x43c]
[#x433][#x43e][#x440][#x430][#x437][#x434][#x43e]
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x448][#x435]
[#x441][#x435][#x43a][#x440][#x435][#x442][#x43e][#x432],
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445] [#x43e][#x442]
[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x430]
[#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c]
[#x413][#x43e][#x441][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430],
[#x411][#x435]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e] [#x434][#x43e][#x43c][#x430] [#x438]
[#x41f][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430][#x433][#x43e]\xD0[#x430].
[#x41e][#x434][#x438]\xD0
[#x432][#x44b][#x441][#x43e][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432
]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x447][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]
[#x441][#x440][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x438]\xD0 [#x44d][#x442][#x443]
[#x441][#x438][#x442][#x443][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x44e] [#x441][#x43e]
[#x441][#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x43e][#x439] [#x438][#x437]
«[#x41a][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x43e][#x442][#x446][#x430]\xC2, [#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430]
[#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x435][#x437][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x430][#x44f]
[#x433][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x430]
\xD0[#x44e][#x431][#x438][#x43c][#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x43e][#x448][#x430][#x434][#x438]
[#x43a][#x438]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x44e][#x441][#x435][#x440][#
x430]
[#x43e][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
[#x432] [#x435][#x433][#x43e] \xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x438]
[#x432] [#x43a][#x430][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x43
8][#x44f].

[#x410][#x41d][#x411]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x43c][#x43e]\xD0[#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x43e]. [#x41d][#x43e]
[#x432] [#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x446][#x435]
[#x430][#x432][#x433][#x443][#x441][#x442][#x430]
[#x430][#x434][#x43c][#x438][#x440][#x430]\xD0
[#x420][#x43e][#x434][#x436][#x435][#x440][#x441], [#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x434][#x438][#x440][#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x43e][#x440],
\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0
\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x438][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c] \xD0[#x430]
[#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x435]
[#x436][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x442][#x435]
[#x440][#x443][#x441][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x43c]. [#x412]
[#x43a][#x430][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435]
[#x433]\xD0[#x430][#x432][#x44b]
[#x41a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x434][#x43e
][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
[#x41f][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430][#x433][#x43e]\xD0[#x430] [#x43e]\xD0
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434]\xD0[#x43e][#x436][#x438]\xD0
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x435][#x441][#x442][#x438] [#x441][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x44e]
[#x43c][#x43e][#x449]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x435][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441
][#x43a][#x438][#x445]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x442][#x440][#x443][#x434][#x430][#x440][#x43e][#x432].

[#x421][#x430][#x43c][#x438]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x442][#x440][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x44b] \xD0[#x435]
[#x43e][#x431][#x441][#x443][#x436][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c]
[#x432] [#x434][#x435][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x44f][#x445], \xD0[#x43e], \xD0[#x43e]
[#x438][#x43c][#x435][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x43c][#x441][#x44f]
[#x441][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f][#x43c],
[#x44d][#x442][#x438]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x442][#x440][#x443][#x434][#x430][#x440][#x44b]
[#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x436]\xD0[#x44b] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x43e][#x431][#x438][#x442][#x44c] [#x41f][#x443][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x430]
[#x435][#x433][#x43e] [#x436][#x435]
[#x43e][#x440][#x443][#x436][#x438][#x435][#x43c],
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430][#x44f]
[#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x444][#x438]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x44b][#x435]
[#x441][#x432][#x44f][#x437][#x438] [#x441]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x43c][#x438]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x433][#x430][#x440][#x445][#x430][#x43c][#x438], [#x430]
[#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x436][#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x431][#x438][#x432][#x430][#x44f]
[#x431][#x440][#x435][#x448][#x438] [#x432]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x441][#x435][#x433][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x435]
[#x418]\xD0[#x442][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x435][#x442][#x430],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b] [#x434][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x434][#x438][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430][#x43c]
[#x432][#x43e][#x437][#x43c][#x43e][#x436]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x44c]
[#x438][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x436][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x438] [#x432][#x437][#x433]\xD0[#x44f][#x434][#x44b]
[#x438] \xD0[#x43e][#x437][#x438][#x446][#x438][#x44e].
[#x427][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x438]
[#x41f][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430][#x433][#x43e]\xD0[#x430]
\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x447][#x438][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x438] [#x44d][#x442][#x438]
[#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x44b] [#x441]\xD0[#x438][#x448][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x433][#x440][#x443][#x431][#x44b][#x43c][#x438] [#x438]
[#x432][#x437][#x44f]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c] [#x437][#x430]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x43a][#x443]
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x438][#x445]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434]\xD0[#x43e][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x439]. [#x412]
[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x443]\xD0[#x44c][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x435] \xD0[#x438]
[#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x43e] [#x438][#x437] \xD0[#x438][#x445] \xD0[#x435]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x43e][#x444][#x438][#x446][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x443]
[#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x440][#x430][#x441][#x441][#x43c][#x43e][#x442][#x440][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f
].

[#x412] [#x445][#x43e][#x434][#x435] [#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x441][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x438]
[#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x449][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x439] «\xD0[#x430]
[#x443][#x440][#x43e][#x432]\xD0[#x435]
[#x437][#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x439
]\xC2 \xD0[#x43e][#x434]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x435][#x434][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#
x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e][#x43c] [#x42d][#x432][#x440][#x438]\xD0[#x430]
[#x425][#x44d][#x439][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x430],
[#x437][#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x421][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x442]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430] \xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x430][#x446][#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x431][#x435][#x437][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438]
[#x438] [#x431][#x44b][#x432][#x448][#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x437][#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x414][#x438][#x440][#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x430]
[#x426][#x420][#x423], [#x43c]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x438][#x435]
[#x443][#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x43
8], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x447][#x440][#x435][#x437][#x43c][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x430][#x44f],
[#x441]\xD0[#x438][#x448][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x43a][#x430][#x44f]
[#x440][#x435][#x430][#x43a][#x446][#x438][#x44f]
[#x410][#x434][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430][#x446][#x438
][#x438] [#x43c][#x43e][#x436][#x435][#x442]
[#x441][#x44b][#x433][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x44c] \xD0[#x430]
[#x440][#x443][#x43a][#x443] [#x41f][#x443][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x443].

«[#x415][#x441]\xD0[#x438] [#x43c][#x44b]
[#x43e][#x431][#x44a][#x44f][#x432][#x438][#x43c]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435] «Defcon-4\xC2
(\xD0[#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x430][#x44f] [#x431][#x43e][#x435][#x432][#x430][#x44f]
[#x433][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x432]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x44c]
[#x434]\xD0[#x44f] \xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x430]
[#x432][#x43e][#x439]\xD0[#x44b])\xC2, - [#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0
[#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0 [#x438][#x437]
[#x443][#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432]
[#x44d][#x442][#x438][#x445]
[#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x449][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x439],
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x433][#x430][#x44f] [#x43a]
[#x442][#x435][#x440][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x438][#x438]
[#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x435]\xD0
[#x425][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x432][#x43e][#x439]\xD0[#x44b], - «[#x43c][#x44b] [#x442][#x435][#x43c]
[#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x44b][#x43c]
[#x440][#x430][#x441]\xD0[#x438][#x448][#x435][#x43c][#x441][#x44f] [#x432]
[#x43e][#x442][#x441][#x443][#x442][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x438][#x438]
[#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x44f] [#x43a]
[#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438] [#x438]
\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x43e][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x431][#x438][#x43c][#x43e][#x44
1][#x442][#x438] \xD0[#x430][#x448][#x435][#x439]
[#x438][#x437][#x431][#x438][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#
x439] [#x441][#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x44b]\xC2.

[#x414][#x430][#x436][#x435] [#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x438][#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x44b][#x435] [#x438]
[#x43e][#x447][#x435][#x432][#x438][#x434]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x44b], [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x437][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x43
5]
[#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x4
45] \xD0[#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x43e][#x447][#x438][#x439]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430],
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x43a][#x440][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
\xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x435]
[#x438]\xD0[#x446][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430] [#x441] Sony,
[#x434]\xD0[#x44f] \xD0[#x440][#x438][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
[#x44d][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438
][#x445] [#x441][#x430]\xD0[#x43a][#x446][#x438][#x439] [#x438]
[#x43e][#x433][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x435][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
[#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x443][#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x432]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a]
[#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x44c]
[#x441]\xD0[#x438][#x448][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x440][#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c].

«[#x41d][#x438][#x43a][#x442][#x43e] \xD0[#x435]
[#x440][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x44f]
[#x442][#x440][#x435][#x431][#x43e][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x440][#x430][#x441]\xD0\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x44b] [#x434][#x43e]
[#x414]\xD0[#x44f] [#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x432]\xC2, -
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0
[#x434][#x440][#x443][#x433][#x43e][#x439]
[#x443][#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x438][#x43a]
[#x44d][#x442][#x438][#x445]
[#x441][#x435][#x43a][#x440][#x435][#x442]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x449][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x439].
«[#x41b][#x44e][#x431][#x44b][#x435]
[#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x442]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x44b]
[#x440][#x430][#x441][#x441][#x43c][#x430][#x442][#x440][#x438][#x432][#x430]\xD
0[#x438][#x441][#x44c] [#x441][#x43a][#x432][#x43e][#x437][#x44c]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x437][#x43c][#x443] [#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x43c][#x43e][#x436][#x435][#x442]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x438][#x437][#x43e][#x439][#x442][#x438] [#x432]
[#x414][#x435]\xD0[#x44c] [#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x432]\xC2.

[#x412][#x43c][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x43e] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430]
[#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x442]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430]
[#x41e][#x431][#x430][#x43c][#x44b] \xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x430][#x446][#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x431][#x435][#x437][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438]
[#x441][#x43e][#x431][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c]
\xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x435] \xD0[#x435][#x442]\xD0[#x438][#x445]
[#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x443]\xD0, [#x432][#x441][#x435]
[#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x440][#x438][#x440][#x43e][#
x432][#x430]\xD0[#x43e] \xD0[#x430]
[#x441][#x440][#x43e][#x447]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x445] \xD0[#x43e]
[#x43e][#x431][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44e]
[#x431][#x435][#x437][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438]
[#x43c][#x430][#x448][#x438]\xD0 [#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x433][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x44f] [#x438]
[#x441]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x432]
[#x443][#x447][#x435][#x442][#x430]
[#x438][#x437][#x431][#x438][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x439].
[#x41d][#x430][#x438][#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x435]
[#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442][#x43e]
[#x43e][#x431][#x441][#x443][#x436][#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x44f]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x443][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x439]
[#x441][#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x438][#x439],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x439] [#x432]
[#x438][#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x435] \xD0[#x435]
[#x441][#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x441][#x44f], -
[#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0
\xD0[#x43e][#x431][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x430][#x435][#x442] [#x441]
\xD0[#x435][#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][
#x43c] \xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x432][#x435][#x441][#x43e][#x43c],
[#x437][#x430][#x442][#x435][#x43c]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x443][#x435][#x442]
[#x437][#x430][#x44f][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x422][#x440][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430] [#x43e]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x442][#x430][#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x43a][#x435]
[#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x432] [#x438]
\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x44b][#x435] [#x443][#x442][#x435][#x447][#x43a][#x438],
\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
\xD0[#x430] \xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x440][#x44b][#x432]
\xD0[#x435][#x433][#x438][#x442][#x438][#x43c]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438]
[#x433]-[#x436][#x438] [#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0.

[#x414][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x430] [#x411][#x440][#x430][#x437][#x438]\xD0,
[#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e]
[#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44f][#x44e][#x449][#x430][#x44f]
[#x43e][#x431][#x44f][#x437][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x435][#x434][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44f]
DNC, [#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x44b][#x442][#x44b][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x430]
[#x432][#x441][#x435] [#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x448][#x435][#x435]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x43e][#x447][#x430][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438
][#x435] \xD0[#x43e] [#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
[#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x432],
[#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x43e]
\xD0[#x43e]-\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x436]\xD0[#x435][#x43c][#x443] \xD0[#x438]
[#x411][#x435]\xD0[#x44b][#x439] [#x434][#x43e][#x43c], \xD0[#x438]
[#x440][#x443][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e]
[#x420][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43
a][#x43e][#x439] \xD0[#x430][#x440][#x442][#x438][#x438] \xD0[#x435]
[#x432][#x44b][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x438] [#x441]
[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x43a][#x438][#x43c]
[#x43e][#x441][#x443][#x436][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435][#x43c]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x438]
[#x43a][#x430][#x43a] [#x430][#x43a][#x442][#x430]
[#x448]\xD0[#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x436][#x430] [#x441][#x43e]
[#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x44b]
[#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x433][#x43e][#x441][#x443][#x434][#x430][#x440][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x430].

[#x413]-[#x436][#x430] [#x411][#x440][#x430][#x437][#x438]\xD0
[#x434][#x430][#x436][#x435] [#x441][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x430]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44b][#x442][#x43a][#x443] [#x438]
\xD0[#x438][#x447]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x43e][#x431][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x44c] [#x43a]
[#x420][#x435][#x439]\xD0[#x441][#x443]
[#x41f][#x440][#x430][#x439][#x431][#x430][#x441][#x443],
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x435][#x434][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44e]
[#x41d][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43
e] [#x43a][#x43e][#x43c][#x438][#x442][#x435][#x442][#x430]
[#x420][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43
a][#x43e][#x439] \xD0[#x430][#x440][#x442][#x438][#x438].
[#x414][#x432][#x430][#x436][#x434][#x44b] [#x432]
[#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442]\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x431][#x435][#x441][#x435][#x434][#x430][#x445] [#x438] [#x432]
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c][#x43c][#x435] [#x43a] \xD0[#x435][#x43c][#x443]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x430] \xD0[#x440][#x438][#x437][#x44b][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x430]
[#x435][#x433][#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x441][#x43e][#x435][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x44c][#
x441][#x44f] [#x43a] \xD0[#x435][#x439] [#x432]
[#x43e][#x441][#x443][#x436][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x438]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a]. [#x41e]\xD0
[#x43e][#x442][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x44f].

«[#x41c][#x44b] [#x442][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e] [#x438]
[#x441]\xD0[#x44b][#x448][#x430]\xD0[#x438],
\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442][#x432][#
x43e] [#x434][#x430][#x441][#x442]
[#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x439]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x442],
\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442][#x432][#
x43e] [#x434][#x430][#x441][#x442] [#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x442]\xC2,
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x430] [#x43e]\xD0[#x430].
«[#x41a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430]-\xD0[#x438][#x431][#x443][#x434][#x44c],
[#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x438]
[#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
[#x433][#x43e][#x441][#x443][#x434][#x430][#x440][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e]
[#x432][#x43c][#x435][#x448][#x430][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x44f] [#x432]
\xD0[#x430][#x448][#x438] [#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x44b],
[#x43c][#x44b] [#x434][#x430][#x434][#x438][#x43c]
[#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x442] [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x435][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x44f] [#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x430],
[#x430] \xD0[#x435] [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x44f]
\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x442][#x438][#x44f]\xC2.

[#x41d][#x43e] [#x433]-\xD0 [#x41e][#x431][#x430][#x43c][#x430]
[#x432][#x441][#x435] [#x436][#x435] \xD0[#x440][#x438]\xD0[#x44f]\xD0
[#x440][#x435][#x448][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435] \xD0[#x438][#x447]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x44c]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x43
8][#x435] [#x433]-\xD0[#x443] [#x41f][#x443][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x443]
\xD0[#x430] [#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x43c][#x438][#x442][#x435]
[#x414][#x432][#x430][#x434][#x446][#x430][#x442][#x43a][#x438] [#x432]
[#x43a][#x438][#x442][#x430][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]
[#x425][#x430]\xD0[#x447][#x436][#x43e][#x443]. [#x422][#x43e]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0 \xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434]\xD0[#x438][#x439]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x430][#x439], [#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x438] [#x43e][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c]
[#x432][#x43c][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x435] [#x434][#x43e]
[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x435][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#
x445] \xD0[#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x43e][#x447][#x438][#x439]
[#x433]-\xD0[#x430] [#x41e][#x431][#x430][#x43c][#x44b].
[#x41a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430] [#x43e]\xD0[#x438],
[#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x439][#x434][#x44f] [#x432]
[#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x43a][#x443],
[#x432][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x435][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c]
[#x432] \xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x440][#x44f][#x436][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x43c]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x433][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x440][#x435], [#x433]-\xD0
[#x41e][#x431][#x430][#x43c][#x430]
\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x432][#x443][#x441][#x43c][#x44b][#x441]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[
#x43e] \xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x438]\xD0
[#x433]-\xD0[#x430] [#x41f][#x443][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x430] [#x43e]
[#x436][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x43a][#x43e][#x439]
[#x440][#x435][#x430][#x43a][#x446][#x438][#x438] [#x421][#x428][#x410] [#x432]
[#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x447][#x430][#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44b][#x442][#x43e][#x43a]
[#x43e][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]\xD0[#x438][#x435] \xD0[#x430]
[#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x446][#x435][#x441][#x441] [#x438]\xD0[#x438]
[#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x443]\xD0[#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x430][#x44
2][#x44c]
[#x433][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435][#x43c],
- [#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x430][#x44e][#x442]
[#x447][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x438]
[#x411][#x435]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e] [#x434][#x43e][#x43c][#x430],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x435],
\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432][#x434][#x430], \xD0[#x435]
[#x443][#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438]
[#x432] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x439] [#x431][#x435][#x441][#x435][#x434][#x435]
[#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0 \xD0[#x430] [#x43e][#x434][#x438]\xD0.

[#x41f][#x43e][#x437][#x436][#x435] [#x432] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x442]
[#x436][#x435] [#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x44c] [#x433]-\xD0
[#x41e][#x431][#x430][#x43c][#x430] [#x441][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430]\xD0
[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x43a][#x43e][#x435] [#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
\xD0[#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x437][#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439
]
\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][
#x439] [#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x43c][#x43e][#x449][#x438],
[#x442][#x435][#x43c][#x44b], [#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x439]
[#x43e]\xD0
\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x43a][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438]
\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430] \xD0[#x435]
[#x43a][#x430][#x441][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x44f].
«[#x41e][#x442][#x43a][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e]
[#x433][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x440][#x44f], [#x43c][#x44b]
[#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x434][#x430][#x435][#x43c]
[#x431][#x41e]\xD0[#x44c][#x448][#x438][#x43c][#x438]
[#x432][#x43e][#x437][#x43c][#x43e][#x436]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x44f][#x43c
][#x438], [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x43e][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44
b][#x43c][#x438], [#x442][#x430][#x43a] [#x438]
\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][
#x43c][#x438]\xC2, - [#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0 [#x43e]\xD0,
[#x43e][#x431][#x440][#x430][#x449][#x430][#x44f][#x441][#x44c] [#x43a]
[#x436][#x443][#x440]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x43c].

[#x41e][#x434]\xD0[#x430][#x43a][#x43e] [#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x448]\xD0[#x43e] [#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x44f]
[#x441][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x43e][#x444][#x438][#x446][#x438][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
[#x437][#x430][#x44f][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435] [#x43e]
[#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x438] [#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x438] [#x432]
[#x441][#x43e][#x431][#x44b][#x442][#x438][#x44f][#x445]
\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x430]
[#x43e][#x43a][#x442][#x44f][#x431][#x440][#x44f], [#x44d][#x442][#x43e]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e] [#x441][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x43e] [#x432]
\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x44c][#x43c][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x43c]
[#x437][#x430][#x44f][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x438] [#x43e][#x442]
[#x438][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x438]
[#x434][#x438][#x440][#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x430]
\xD0[#x430][#x446][#x438][#x43e]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x43a][#x438] [#x438]
[#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430]
[#x432]\xD0[#x443][#x442][#x440][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x435][#x439]
[#x431][#x435][#x437][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438].
[#x42d][#x442][#x43e], [#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x435][#x447]\xD0[#x43e],
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e] [#x433][#x43e][#x440][#x430][#x437][#x434][#x43e]
[#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x435]
[#x44d][#x444][#x444][#x435][#x43a][#x442]\xD0[#x43e], [#x447][#x435][#x43c]
\xD0[#x43e][#x44f][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430] [#x432]
[#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x435] [#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x441][#x441][#x44b] [#x411][#x435]\xD0[#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x434][#x43e][#x43c][#x430] [#x437][#x430] [#x434][#x432][#x430]
[#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x430] [#x434][#x43e] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430] [#x43e]\xD0 \xD0[#x440][#x44f][#x43c][#x43e]
[#x43e][#x431][#x432][#x438]\xD0[#x438]\xD0
[#x421][#x435][#x432][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x443][#x44e]
[#x41a][#x43e][#x440][#x435][#x44e] [#x432] [#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x435]
\xD0[#x430] Sony.

[#x423]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x435][#x441][#
x44f] [#x432] [#x437][#x430][#x44f][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x438]
[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x44b]
«\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x445]
[#x43e][#x440][#x433][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x437][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x439]\xC2,
- [#x433][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x440][#x44f][#x442]
[#x447][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x438], -
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x440][#x430][#x437][#x443][#x43c][#x435][#x432][#x430][#x44e
][#x442] [#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x436][#x435] [#x438]
\xD0[#x43e][#x445][#x438][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x434][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445] [#x443]
[#x420][#x435][#x441]\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x446][#x43
5][#x432]. [#x414][#x432][#x430] [#x43a][#x440][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x447][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430]
[#x443][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x436][#x434][#x430][#x44e][#x442],
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x434][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x43a][#x440][#x438][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x438][#
x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439]
[#x44d][#x43a][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x442][#x438][#x437][#x44b]
[#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x438] [#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x44b]
«[#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x435][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x43
c][#x438] [#x438]
[#x442][#x435][#x445]\xD0[#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x43c][#x438
]\xC2 [#x438][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x447]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x430][#x43c][#x438]
\xD0[#x430]
[#x442][#x435][#x440][#x440][#x438][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x438][#x438]
[#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x438], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x440][#x435][#x435] [#x432][#x441][#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x43e][#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430][#x435][#x442], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x435
] «[#x437][#x430][#x43a]\xD0[#x430][#x434][#x43a][#x438]\xC2 [#x438]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x43a]\xD0[#x44e][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f] [#x43a]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x43c]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x44c][#x44e][#x442][#x435][#x440]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]
[#x438] [#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x444][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]
[#x441][#x435][#x442][#x44f][#x43c] \xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x43e][#x433]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x434][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x443][#x447][#x430][#x441][#x442][#x438][#x435]
[#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x438] [#x432]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x430][#x445].

[#x41d][#x43e] [#x432][#x441][#x435] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e]
[#x43c][#x43e][#x436][#x435][#x442]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x436][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x44c][#x441][#x44f]
[#x442][#x430][#x439]\xD0[#x43e][#x439] [#x432]
[#x442][#x435][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x434][#x435][#x441][#x44f][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x435][#x442][#x438][#x439],
\xD0[#x43e][#x43a][#x430] \xD0[#x435] [#x431][#x443][#x434][#x443][#x442]
[#x441]\xD0[#x44f][#x442][#x44b] [#x433][#x440][#x438][#x444][#x44b]
[#x441][#x435][#x43a][#x440][#x435][#x442]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438].

[#x41d][#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x439] \xD0[#x43e][#x437][#x436][#x435]
[#x412][#x438][#x446][#x435]-\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[
#x442][#x443] [#x414][#x436][#x43e]\xD0[#x443]
[#x411][#x430][#x439][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x443] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x43e][#x440][#x443][#x447][#x435]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x447]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x436][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x43
8][#x435] [#x433]-\xD0[#x443] [#x41f][#x443][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x443]:
[#x421][#x43e][#x435][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x428][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x44b] \xD0[#x440][#x438][#x43c][#x443][#x442]
[#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x442]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x44b] «[#x432] \xD0[#x443][#x436]\xD0[#x43e][#x435]
[#x432][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x44f] \xD0[#x43e]
[#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x435][#x43c][#x443]
[#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x443] [#x438] [#x432]
[#x43e][#x431][#x441][#x442][#x43e][#x44f][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442
][#x432][#x430][#x445],
[#x433][#x430][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x442][#x438][#x440][#x443][#x44e][#x449][#x438
][#x445] \xD0[#x430][#x438][#x431][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x448][#x438][#x439]
[#x44d][#x444][#x444][#x435][#x43a][#x442]\xC2.

[#x41f][#x43e][#x437][#x436][#x435], \xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x435]
[#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e] [#x43a][#x430][#x43a] [#x433]-\xD0
[#x411][#x430][#x439][#x434][#x435]\xD0 [#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0,
[#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x43e]\xD0 \xD0[#x435]
[#x434][#x443][#x43c][#x430][#x435][#x442], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x44f] [#x43c][#x43e][#x436][#x435][#x442]
«[#x43e][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x444][#x443]\xD0[#x434][#x430][#x43c][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[
#x43e][#x435] [#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]\xD0[#x438][#x435] \xD0[#x430]
[#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x44b]\xC2, [#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x441]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x438]\xD0[#x438],
[#x443][#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x435][#x442] \xD0[#x438]
[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x44f
]
[#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#
x442][#x44c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435] [#x433]-\xD0[#x443]
[#x41f][#x443][#x442][#x438]\xD0[#x443]
[#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x43e].

«[#x41d][#x430][#x434][#x435][#x44e][#x441][#x44c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x435][#x442]\xC2, - [#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x442][#x438]\xD0
[#x433]-\xD0 [#x411][#x430][#x439][#x434][#x435]\xD0.

[#x41d][#x435][#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x435] [#x438][#x437]
[#x435][#x433][#x43e] [#x431][#x44b][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x445]
[#x43a][#x43e]\xD0\xD0[#x435][#x433]
[#x441][#x447][#x438][#x442][#x430][#x44e][#x442], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x44d][#x442][#x43e] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0
\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432][#x438]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x44b][#x439]
[#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x442].
[#x410][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x439
] [#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x442][#x440][#x443][#x434][#x430][#x440],
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0 [#x41c][#x430][#x439][#x43a]\xD0
[#x41c][#x43e][#x440][#x435]\xD0\xD0, [#x431][#x44b][#x432][#x448][#x438][#x439]
[#x437][#x430][#x43c][#x434][#x438][#x440][#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x
430] [#x426][#x420][#x423] [#x432]
[#x430][#x434][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430][#x446][#x438
][#x438] \xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430]
[#x41e][#x431][#x430][#x43c][#x44b], «[#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x436][#x435]\xD0
[#x431][#x44b][#x442][#x44c]
[#x43e][#x442][#x43a][#x440][#x44b][#x442][#x44b][#x43c] [#x438]
[#x43e][#x447][#x435][#x432][#x438][#x434]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c]. [#x41e]\xD0
[#x434][#x43e]\xD0[#x436][#x435]\xD0 [#x431][#x44b][#x442][#x44c]
[#x432][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0\xC2.

[#x421][#x43a][#x440][#x44b][#x442][#x44b][#x439]
[#x43e][#x442][#x432][#x435][#x442]
[#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x441]\xD0[#x438][#x436][#x430][#x435][#x442]
[#x44d][#x444][#x444][#x435][#x43a][#x442]
[#x443][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430][#x448][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f],
[#x434][#x43e][#x431][#x430][#x432][#x438]\xD0 [#x43e]\xD0.
«[#x415][#x441]\xD0[#x438] [#x432][#x44b] \xD0[#x435]
[#x43c][#x43e][#x436][#x435][#x442][#x435] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x443][#x432][#x438][#x434][#x435][#x442][#x44c], [#x44d][#x442][#x43e]
\xD0[#x435] [#x441][#x440][#x430][#x431][#x43e][#x442][#x430][#x435][#x442]
[#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x441][#x434][#x435][#x440][#x436][#x438][#x432][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x
439] [#x444][#x430][#x43a][#x442][#x43e][#x440] [#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x43a][#x438][#x442][#x430][#x439][#x446][#x435][#x432],
[#x441][#x435][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x43a][#x43e][#x440][#x435][#x439][#x
446][#x435][#x432] [#x438]\xD0[#x438]
[#x438][#x440][#x430]\xD0[#x446][#x435][#x432], [#x438]\xD0[#x438]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x43e]-[#x442][#x43e] [#x435][#x449][#x435]\xC2.

[#x410][#x434][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x430][#x446][#x438
][#x44f] \xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430]
[#x41e][#x431][#x430][#x43c][#x44b]
[#x433][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x440][#x438][#x442], [#x447][#x442][#x43e] [#x443]
\xD0[#x438][#x445] [#x435][#x441][#x442][#x44c] [#x435][#x449][#x435]
[#x442][#x440][#x438][#x434][#x446][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x434]\xD0[#x435][#x439], [#x447][#x442][#x43e][#x431][#x44b]
[#x441][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x438][#x43c][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e].

[#x421][#x41b][#x415][#x414][#x423][#x42e][#x429][#x410][#x42f]
[#x41c][#x418][#x428][#x415][#x41d][#x42c]

[#x41f][#x43e] [#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x433][#x43e] [#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x430]
[#x43a][#x430][#x436][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x44f],
\xD0[#x43e][#x44f][#x432]\xD0[#x44f][#x44e][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
[#x432][#x43e][#x437][#x43c][#x43e][#x436]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438]
[#x434]\xD0[#x44f]
[#x434][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x435][#x439][#x448][#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x440][#x430][#x441][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#
x44f] [#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439]
[#x430][#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x438]:
[#x420][#x430][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD
0[#x44c]\xD0[#x430][#x44f] [#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x43a][#x430],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x443][#x44e] [#x433]-\xD0
[#x41e][#x431][#x430][#x43c][#x430]
[#x440][#x430][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x440][#x44f][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x441][#x44f]
[#x437][#x430][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x447][#x438][#x442][#x44c] [#x43a] 20
[#x44f]\xD0[#x432][#x430][#x440][#x44f], [#x43a][#x43e] [#x434]\xD0[#x44e],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x434][#x430] [#x43e]\xD0
\xD0[#x43e][#x43a][#x438]\xD0[#x435][#x442] [#x441][#x432][#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442]; [#x438] [#x435][#x449][#x435]
[#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x43e] [#x438]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x43e]
[#x440][#x430][#x441][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x43e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#
x439] [#x432] [#x41a][#x43e]\xD0[#x433][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x441][#x435].
[#x421][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x438] \xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x447][#x438][#x445]
[#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x43e][#x432], [#x43e]\xD0[#x438]
[#x431][#x443][#x434][#x443][#x442] [#x431][#x438][#x442][#x44c][#x441][#x44f]
\xD0[#x430][#x434] [#x432][#x43e]\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x43e][#x43c] [#x43e]
[#x43c][#x43e][#x442][#x438][#x432][#x430][#x445],
[#x43a][#x43e][#x442][#x43e][#x440][#x44b][#x43c][#x438]
[#x440][#x443][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x432][#x43e][#x
432][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x44f] [#x433]-\xD0 [#x41f][#x443][#x442][#x438]\xD0.

[#x421][#x442][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x441][#x44f] \xD0[#x438]
[#x43e]\xD0 [#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x43e][#x440][#x442][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x438][#x43c][#x438][#x434][#x436]
[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439
] [#x434][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438][#x438]
[#x438]\xD0[#x438]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x430]\xD0[#x442][#x438][#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a
][#x438][#x435]
[#x432][#x44b][#x441][#x442][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]?
[#x41c][#x43e][#x436][#x435][#x442] [#x431][#x44b][#x442][#x44c], [#x43e]\xD0
[#x441][#x442][#x440][#x435][#x43c][#x438]\xD0[#x441][#x44f]
[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x430][#x431][#x438][#x442][#x44c]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x443][#x44e][#x449][#x435][#x433][#x43e]
[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x433
][#x43e] \xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x430],
\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x43a][#x43e]\xD0[#x44c][#x43a][#x443] [#x443]
\xD0[#x435][#x433][#x43e] \xD0[#x435] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x438][#x447][#x438]\xD0 \xD0[#x435]
[#x432][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x442][#x44c] [#x432]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
\xD0[#x435][#x433][#x43a][#x43e][#x439] \xD0[#x43e][#x431][#x435][#x434][#x44b]
[#x433]-[#x436][#x438] [#x41a]\xD0[#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x43e]\xD0? [#x410]
[#x43c][#x43e][#x436][#x435][#x442] [#x431][#x44b][#x442][#x44c],
[#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434]\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x436][#x438]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x426][#x420][#x423], [#x44d][#x442][#x43e] [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x43e]
\xD0[#x430][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x439]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44b][#x442][#x43a][#x43e][#x439]
[#x438][#x437][#x431][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x44c]
[#x422][#x440][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x430]?

[#x41d][#x430] [#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x43e][#x43c] [#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x435]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x439]
\xD0\xD0[#x430]\xD0 \xD0[#x43e][#x434]
[#x434][#x435][#x432][#x438][#x437][#x43e][#x43c]
«[#x432][#x437]\xD0[#x430][#x43c][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x439] [#x438]
\xD0[#x443][#x431]\xD0[#x438][#x43a][#x443][#x439]
\xD0[#x430][#x439][#x434][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x435]\xC2
[#x434][#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438][#x433] [#x432][#x441][#x435][#x445]
[#x442][#x440][#x435][#x445]
[#x432][#x44b][#x448][#x435]\xD0[#x430][#x437][#x432][#x430]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x44
5] [#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x439].

[#x41f][#x440][#x438]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430][#x44f] [#x432][#x43e]
[#x432]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x435]
[#x443][#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x445]
[#x440][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x439][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#x445]
[#x445][#x430][#x43a][#x435][#x440][#x43e][#x432],
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x441][#x442][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x44f][#x435][#x442][#
x441][#x44f] [#x44f][#x441]\xD0[#x44b][#x43c], [#x447][#x442][#x43e]
[#x43e]\xD0[#x438] \xD0[#x435]
[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x430]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x44f][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
\xD0[#x430] [#x44d][#x442][#x43e][#x43c]. [#x414][#x432][#x435]
\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x438] \xD0[#x430][#x437][#x430][#x434]
[#x411][#x440][#x443]\xD0[#x43e] [#x41a][#x430][#x430]\xD0,
[#x448][#x435][#x444]
[#x433][#x435][#x440][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x439]
[#x440][#x430][#x437][#x432][#x435][#x434][#x43a][#x438],
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x443]\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x434][#x438]\xD0 [#x43e]
[#x432][#x43e][#x437][#x43c][#x43e][#x436]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438]
[#x432][#x43c][#x435][#x448][#x430][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x442][#x432
][#x430] [#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x438] [#x432]
[#x431][#x443][#x434][#x443][#x449][#x435][#x43c] [#x433][#x43e][#x434][#x443]
[#x432] [#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x44b] [#x432]
[#x413][#x435][#x440][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x438].
«[#x417]\xD0[#x43e][#x443][#x43c][#x44b][#x448]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x438][#x43a]
[#x438]
[#x437][#x430][#x438]\xD0[#x442][#x435][#x440][#x435][#x441][#x43e][#x432][#x430
]\xD0[#x44b] [#x432] \xD0[#x438][#x448][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x438]
\xD0[#x435][#x433][#x438][#x442][#x438][#x43c]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438]
[#x441][#x430][#x43c][#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
[#x434][#x435][#x43c][#x43e][#x43a][#x440][#x430][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x
441][#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x43e]
\xD0[#x440][#x43e][#x446][#x435][#x441][#x441][#x430] [#x43a][#x430][#x43a]
[#x442][#x430][#x43a][#x43e][#x432][#x43e][#x433][#x43e]\xC2,
[#x441][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x430]\xD0 [#x433]-\xD0 [#x41a][#x430][#x430]\xD0.
"[#x422][#x435]\xD0[#x435][#x440][#x44c], -
[#x434][#x43e][#x431][#x430][#x432][#x438]\xD0 [#x43e]\xD0, - [#x432]
[#x444][#x43e][#x43a][#x443][#x441][#x435] [#x44d][#x442][#x438][#x445]
\xD0[#x43e]\xD0[#x44b][#x442][#x43e][#x43a]
\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x443][#x448][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]
[#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435][#x433][#x43e]
\xD0[#x43e][#x440][#x44f][#x434][#x43a][#x430]
[#x43e][#x43a][#x430][#x437][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x435][#x442][#x441][#x44f]
[#x415][#x432][#x440][#x43e]\xD0[#x430], [#x438] [#x432]
[#x43e][#x441][#x43e][#x431][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x438]
[#x413][#x435][#x440][#x43c][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x44f]".

[#x41d][#x43e] [#x420][#x43e][#x441][#x441][#x438][#x44f] \xD0[#x438] [#x432]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x435][#x439] [#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x435] \xD0[#x435]
[#x437][#x430][#x431][#x44b][#x432][#x430][#x435][#x442]
[#x43e][#x431][#x44a][#x435][#x43a][#x442][#x44b] [#x432]
[#x410][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x435]. [#x41d][#x430]
[#x441]\xD0[#x435][#x434][#x443][#x44e][#x449][#x438][#x439]
[#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x44c] \xD0[#x43e][#x441]\xD0[#x435]
\xD0[#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#
x445] [#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x432]
[#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x44f] Volexity,
[#x437][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x43c][#x430][#x44e][#x449][#x430][#x44f][#x441][#x44f
]
[#x43a][#x438][#x431][#x435][#x440][#x431][#x435][#x437][#x43e]\xD0[#x430][#x441
]\xD0[#x43e][#x441][#x442][#x44c][#x44e],
[#x43e][#x431]\xD0[#x430][#x440][#x443][#x436][#x438]\xD0[#x430]
\xD0[#x44f][#x442][#x44c] \xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x44b][#x445]
[#x432][#x43e]\xD0\xD0
[#x444][#x438][#x448][#x438]\xD0[#x433][#x43e][#x432][#x44b][#x445]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x439],
[#x44f][#x432]\xD0[#x43e]
[#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x433][#x440][#x443]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x439] Cozy Bear [#x432]
[#x440][#x430][#x437]\xD0[#x438][#x447]\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x430]\xD0[#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x442][#x438][#x447][#x435][#x441][#x43a][#x438][#
x435] [#x446][#x435]\xD0[#x442][#x440][#x44b] [#x438]
\xD0[#x435]\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432][#x438][#x442][#x435]\xD0[#x44c][#x441][#x44
2][#x432][#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x435]
[#x43e][#x440][#x433][#x430]\xD0[#x438][#x437][#x430][#x446][#x438][#x438]
[#x432] [#x421][#x43e][#x435][#x434][#x438]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x44b][#x445]
[#x428][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x430][#x445].

[#x41a] [#x43e][#x434]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x443] [#x438][#x437]
[#x441][#x43e][#x43e][#x431][#x449][#x435]\xD0[#x438][#x439],
[#x44f][#x43a][#x43e][#x431][#x44b]
[#x43e][#x442]\xD0[#x440][#x430][#x432]\xD0[#x435]\xD0\xD0[#x43e][#x43c][#x443]
[#x438][#x437]
[#x413][#x430][#x440][#x432][#x430][#x440][#x434][#x441][#x43a][#x43e][#x433][#x
43e]
[#x443]\xD0[#x438][#x432][#x435][#x440][#x441][#x438][#x442][#x435][#x442][#x430
], [#x431][#x44b]\xD0[#x430]
\xD0[#x440][#x438]\xD0[#x43e][#x436][#x435]\xD0[#x430]
\xD0[#x43e][#x434][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x430][#x44f]
[#x441][#x442][#x430][#x442][#x44c][#x44f] \xD0[#x43e][#x434]
[#x437][#x430][#x433][#x43e]\xD0[#x43e][#x432][#x43a][#x43e][#x43c]: «[#x412]
[#x447][#x435][#x43c] \xD0[#x440][#x438][#x447][#x438]\xD0[#x430]
[#x434][#x438][#x441][#x43a][#x440][#x435][#x434][#x438][#x442][#x430][#x446][#x
438][#x438] [#x432][#x44b][#x431][#x43e][#x440][#x43e][#x432] [#x432]
[#x410][#x43c][#x435][#x440][#x438][#x43a][#x435]\xC2.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 23, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

Hunt for Berlin Suspect Ends in Gunfire on an Italian Plaza

BYLINE: ELISABETTA POVOLEDO, GAIA PIANIGIANI and RUKMINI CALLIMACHI

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 1810 words



HIGHLIGHT: Anis Amri, the 24-year-old Tunisian sought in connection with the
rampage that killed 12 people at a Christmas market in Berlin, was killed by
Italian police officers.


SESTO SAN GIOVANNI, Italy -- It was a routine identity check, the kind Italy has
relied on to stem the flow of illegal migration deeper into Europe. But the man
stopped by two police officers around 3 a.m. Friday outside the northern city of
Milan was anything but an ordinary drifter.

He turned out to be perhaps Europe's most wanted man, Anis Amri, the
chiefsuspect in the deadly terrorist attack on a Christmas market in Berlin that
killed 12 people. Asked to show his papers and empty his backpack, he pulled out
a gun, shot one officer, and in turn was shot and killed by another.

"Police bastards," Mr. Amri, who turned 24 this week, shouted in Italian before
dying, according to the account given by Antonio De Iesu, director of the Milan
police, at a news conference.

For Italy, the shooting death of Mr. Amri, a Tunisian who had pledged his
allegiance to the Islamic State's supreme leader in a video released by the
group on Friday, spurred a moment of national pride and some reassurance that
its security measures were working.

For Germany, it brought a sense of palpable relief after a week of national
anguish. "Now I can wish you all a really peaceful Christmas," the German
interior minister, Thomas de Maizière, told reporters Friday afternoon, as he
thanked his Italian counterparts.

But the death also raised numerous questions about Mr. Amri's movements and
motivations, as well as about the potential gaps in the security of a Europe
with open borders.

Law enforcement authorities issued a Europe-wide warrant on Wednesday for Mr.
Amri, who migrated to Italy in 2011 and was imprisoned for four years in six
different prisons in Sicily before making his way to Germany in 2015.

Italy officially classified Mr. Amri as a terrorism risk after he threatened to
decapitate a Christian cellmate in prison in Palermo in 2014, according to
Lorenzo Vidino, who chairs an Italian commission of experts on radicalization
that was formed this fall.

"He was basically a troublemaker, very aggressive and very violent. And then
from there, he starts a whole trajectory," said Mr. Vidino, who said that the
Tunisian migrant was arrested soon after his arrival by boat on the Italian
island of Lampedusa in 2011, after back-to-back arson episodes. "He establishes
a track record of bad behavior, which at the beginning was just aggressive and
threatening and disrespectful. But in the last place, where he was held in a
high-security prison in Palermo, he showed signs of radicalism."

The threat to his cellmate was considered serious enough that officials added
him to Italy's database of radicalized individuals, a list that includes only a
few hundred names, said Mr. Vidino, who is also the director of the Program on
Extremism at George Washington University.

Both Italy and Germany tried to deport him to Tunisia but were thwarted by a
lack of documents and cooperation from his home country.

Even after Mr. Amri was named as the prime suspect in the attack in Berlin, he
was able to roam freely around Europe, his face plastered across the news media
and a reward of more than $100,000 on his head.

"This mobility is great for the law-abiding and equally great for the
non-law-abiding," said Douglas H. Wise, a former senior C.I.A. officer, of the
borderless travel within the European Union.

What Mr. Amri did in the four days between the attack in Berlin and when he was
ultimately killed in Sesto San Giovanni, a suburb north of central Milan, is not
clear, but that is now the subject of an intense investigation that the
authorities remain reluctant to discuss.

Asked on Friday when exactly the authorities began to view Mr. Amri as a
suspect, the head of Germany's federal criminal police, Holger Münch, restated
in general terms that it was on Tuesday, after investigators found an identity
document in a wallet in the cab of the tractor-trailer used in the attack.

The police have not said why the wallet was not discovered on Monday, when the
attack occurred and a murdered driver was found in the cab. On Friday, Mr. Münch
for the first time mentioned that an alias was involved, but he said the police
had quickly linked it to Mr. Amri.

In Italy, Mr. Vidino said that a train ticket found on Mr. Amri's body showed
that he had traveled by train to Turin in Italy from the French town of
Chambéry, near the border between the two nations. But there is no trail
suggesting how he got from Berlin to Chambéry.

A senior European counterterrorism official said that the delay in identifying
Mr. Amri probably gave him a crucial head start of several hours to flee
Germany, and that he would have been able to buy a train ticket to France and
Italy without showing identification papers.

Facial-recognition software on surveillance cameras in Europe is still in
rudimentary form in most places, the official said, so even after Mr. Amri was
identified, he could have slipped through the train stations undetected,
especially if he was wearing a hat or hood.

Mr. Amri's ability to hide through the week and make his way from Germany,
through France, to Italy also raised questions of whether he had the help of a
broader network, particularly one possibly linked to the Islamic State.

The group called Mr. Amri "a soldier" in the video released on Friday, in which
Mr. Amri proclaimed loyalty to its leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, and declared
that the attack in Berlin was intended to avenge coalition airstrikes in Syria
that have killed civilians.

The video was evidently filmed in the Moabit district of northern Berlin, on the
Kieler bridge. The autumn foliage seen on trees suggested it was filmed in fall
or even early December.

In Germany, Mr. Amri came on the radar of the authorities in part for suspected
ties to a 32-year-old Iraqi-born Salafist preacher who went by the name Abu
Walaa and who was jailed just weeks ago on suspicion of recruiting fighters to
join the Islamic State.

"There is high suspicion that he was behind the departure of a number of Germans
to Syria -- as many as two dozen -- but the intelligence is not clear as to his
exact role, whether in radicalization, recruitment or terror financing," said
Laith Alkhouri, a director at Flashpoint, a business risk intelligence company
in New York that tracks militant and cyber threats.

In a telephone call from the suspect's hometown in Tunisia, Mr. Amri's older
brother, Walid, said that the family wondered whether he became radicalized
while in jail in Italy. After his brother was released, he informed the family
that he was leaving for Germany "with friends he had made in jail," Walid Amri
said.

Also unknown is whether Mr. Amri had any accomplices in the Berlin attack -- a
question that Peter Frank, Germany's top federal prosecutor, identified as a
priority for investigators.

"It is very important now to determine if there was a network of cooperators, a
network of supporters, accessories or assistants helping him to prepare the
attack, execute the attack and also to escape," he said at a news conference on
Friday in Karlsruhe, Germany.

The only uncertainty that seemed to be settled on Friday was that the man killed
was indeed Mr. Amri.

"There is absolutely no doubt that the person who was killed was Anis Amri, the
suspect in the terrorist attack in Berlin," the Italian interior minister, Marco
Minniti, said at a news conference.

"As soon as this person entered our country, he was the most wanted man in
Europe, and we immediately identified him and neutralized him," Mr. Minniti
said. "This means that our security is working really well."

Some analysts, however, said that Mr. Amri's flight over the past 72 hours from
German to Italy through France underscored Europe's porous border controls.
"Terrorists with multiple false identification documents are able to exploit
Europe's open borders. Just as Amri arrived in Europe and moved almost
seamlessly around the continent before the Berlin attack, he was able to do the
same after it," said Seth G. Jones, a terrorism specialist at the RAND
Corporation.

Mr. Amri traveled from Turin to Central Station in Milan, where he arrived
around 1 a.m. Friday. Surveillance cameras in the Milan train station recorded
Mr. Amri's movements, Italian investigators said. It was not clear how Mr. Amri
made his way to Sesto San Giovanni, about four miles away.

"How he traveled there and what he was doing there are subject to delicate
investigations," Mr. De Iesu, of the Milan police, said at the news conference.
"We have to understand whether he was in transit or was awaiting someone."

Sesto San Giovanni is a "a strategic hub for transportation," the town's deputy
mayor, Andrea Rivolta, said in an interview at city hall. "Sesto is a junction
for the railway system, the Milan metro, municipal buses and buses that reach
all of Europe," as well as southern Italy.

According to the account provided by Mr. De Iesu, Mr. Amri was standing alone on
a piazza in Sesto San Giovanni, next to the northern terminus of a subway line.

When the officers stopped him and asked for identification, he responded, in
good Italian with a North African accent, that he was not carrying any documents
on him. They asked him to empty his pockets and backpack. He was carrying a
small knife and the equivalent of a few hundred dollars, but no cellphone.

But then he pulled out a pistol, Mr. De Iesu said.

"It was a regular patrol, under the new system of intensified police checks on
the territory," he said. "They had no perception that it could be him, otherwise
they'd have been more careful."

The officer whom Mr. Amri shot, identified as Cristian Movio, was wounded in the
shoulder and had surgery on Friday. The other officer, who shot Mr. Amri, was
identified as Luca Scatà.

Follow Elisabetta Povoledo @EPovoledo, Gaia Pianigiani @gaia_pianigiani, and
Rukmini Callimachi @rcallimachi on Twitter.Elisabetta Povoledo reported from
Sesto San Giovanni, Gaia Pianigiani from Rome and Rukmini Callimachi from New
York. Reporting was contributed by Franziska Reymann and Alison Smale from
Berlin, Sewell Chan from London, Eric Schmitt from Washington and Lorenzo Tondo
from Palermo, Italy.

PHOTO: Italian investigators on Friday after the death of Anis Amri, 24, the
Tunisian man who is suspected of killing 12 people in a terrorist attack on
Monday in Berlin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIELE BENNATI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY
IMAGES) (A8)

Related Articles


     ·    Italy Lauds 2 Officers as Heroes in Fatal Shooting of Fugitive
     ·    Ordered Deported, Berlin Suspect Slipped Through Germany's Fingers
     ·    Anis Amri, Suspect in the Berlin Truck Attack: What We Know
     ·    Czech, Israeli, Italian, Polish and Ukrainian Citizens Were Among
          Victims of Berlin Attack
     ·    Germany Seeks Tunisian Tied to Berlin Christmas Market Attack
     ·    Berlin Attack Poses Toughest Test in Merkel's 11 Years in Power
     ·    Berlin Attack Sets Off Hunt for a Tunisian in Germany
     ·    Berlin Market Attack Mars Square Where Three Eras Coexist


LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 24, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Berlin Manhunt Ends in Gunfire in Italian Plaza

BYLINE: By ELISABETTA POVOLEDO, GAIA PIANIGIANI and RUKMINI CALLIMACHI;
Elisabetta Povoledo reported from Sesto San Giovanni, Gaia Pianigiani from Rome
and Rukmini Callimachi from New York. Reporting was contributed by Franziska
Reymann and Alison Smale from Berlin, Sewell Chan from London, Eric Schmitt from
Washington and Lorenzo Tondo from Palermo, Italy..

Follow Elisabetta Povoledo @EPovoledo, Gaia Pianigiani @gaia_pianigiani, and
Rukmini Callimachi @rcallimachi on Twitter.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1633 words


SESTO SAN GIOVANNI, Italy -- It was a routine identity check, the kind Italy has
relied on to stem the flow of illegal migration deeper into Europe. But the man
stopped by two police officers around 3 a.m. Friday outside the northern city of
Milan was anything but an ordinary drifter.

He turned out to be perhaps Europe's most wanted man, Anis Amri, the chief
suspect in the deadly terrorist attack on a Christmas market in Berlin that
killed 12 people. Asked to show his papers and empty his backpack, he pulled out
a gun, shot one officer, and in turn was shot and killed by another.

''Police bastards,'' Mr. Amri, who turned 24 this week, shouted in Italian
before dying, according to the account given by Antonio De Iesu, director of the
Milan police, at a news conference.

For Italy, the shooting death of Mr. Amri, a Tunisian who had pledged his
allegiance to the Islamic State's supreme leader in a video released by the
group on Friday, spurred a moment of national pride and some reassurance that
its security measures were working.

For Germany, it brought a sense of palpable relief after a week of national
anguish. ''Now I can wish you all a really peaceful Christmas,'' the German
interior minister, Thomas de Maizière, told reporters Friday afternoon, as he
thanked his Italian counterparts.

But the death also raised numerous questions about Mr. Amri's movements and
motivations, as well as about the potential gaps in the security of a Europe
with open borders.

Law enforcement authorities issued a Europe-wide warrant on Wednesday for Mr.
Amri, who migrated to Italy in 2011 and was imprisoned for four years in six
different prisons in Sicily before making his way to Germany in 2015.

Italy officially classified Mr. Amri as a terrorism risk after he threatened to
decapitate a Christian cellmate in prison in Palermo in 2014, according to
Lorenzo Vidino, who chairs an Italian commission of experts on radicalization
that was formed this fall.

''He was basically a troublemaker, very aggressive and very violent. And then
from there, he starts a whole trajectory,'' said Mr. Vidino, who said that the
Tunisian migrant was arrested soon after his arrival by boat on the Italian
island of Lampedusa in 2011, after back-to-back arson episodes. ''He establishes
a track record of bad behavior, which at the beginning was just aggressive and
threatening and disrespectful. But in the last place, where he was held in a
high-security prison in Palermo, he showed signs of radicalism.''

The threat to his cellmate was considered serious enough that officials added
him to Italy's database of radicalized individuals, a list that includes only a
few hundred names, said Mr. Vidino, who is also the director of the Program on
Extremism at George Washington University.

Both Italy and Germany tried to deport him to Tunisia but were thwarted by a
lack of documents and cooperation from his home country.

Even after Mr. Amri was named as the prime suspect in the attack in Berlin, he
was able to roam freely around Europe, his face plastered across the news media
and a reward of more than $100,000 on his head.

''This mobility is great for the law-abiding and equally great for the
non-law-abiding,'' said Douglas H. Wise, a former senior C.I.A. officer, of the
borderless travel within the European Union.

What Mr. Amri did in the four days between the attack in Berlin and when he was
ultimately killed in Sesto San Giovanni, a suburb north of central Milan, is not
clear, but that is now the subject of an intense investigation that the
authorities remain reluctant to discuss.

Asked on Friday when exactly the authorities began to view Mr. Amri as a
suspect, the head of Germany's federal criminal police, Holger Münch, restated
in general terms that it was on Tuesday, after investigators found an identity
document in a wallet in the cab of the tractor-trailer used in the attack.

The police have not said why the wallet was not discovered on Monday, when the
attack occurred and a murdered driver was found in the cab. On Friday, Mr. Münch
for the first time mentioned that an alias was involved, but he said the police
had quickly linked it to Mr. Amri.

In Italy, Mr. Vidino said that a train ticket found on Mr. Amri's body showed
that he had traveled by train to Turin in Italy from the French town of
Chambéry, near the border between the two nations. But there is no trail
suggesting how he got from Berlin to Chambéry.

A senior European counterterrorism official said that the delay in identifying
Mr. Amri probably gave him a crucial head start of several hours to flee
Germany, and that he would have been able to buy a train ticket to France and
Italy without showing identification papers.

Facial-recognition software on surveillance cameras in Europe is still in
rudimentary form in most places, the official said, so even after Mr. Amri was
identified, he could have slipped through the train stations undetected,
especially if he was wearing a hat or hood.

Mr. Amri's ability to hide through the week and make his way from Germany,
through France, to Italy also raised questions of whether he had the help of a
broader network, particularly one possibly linked to the Islamic State.

The group called Mr. Amri ''a soldier'' in the video released on Friday, in
which Mr. Amri proclaimed loyalty to its leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, and
declared that the attack in Berlin was intended to avenge coalition airstrikes
in Syria that have killed civilians.

The video was evidently filmed in the Moabit district of northern Berlin, on the
Kieler bridge. The autumn foliage seen on trees suggested it was filmed in fall
or even early December.

In Germany, Mr. Amri came on the radar of the authorities in part for suspected
ties to a 32-year-old Iraqi-born Salafist preacher who went by the name Abu
Walaa and who was jailed just weeks ago on suspicion of recruiting fighters to
join the Islamic State.

''There is high suspicion that he was behind the departure of a number of
Germans to Syria -- as many as two dozen -- but the intelligence is not clear as
to his exact role, whether in radicalization, recruitment or terror financing,''
said Laith Alkhouri, a director at Flashpoint, a business risk intelligence
company in New York that tracks militant and cyber threats.

In a telephone call from the suspect's hometown in Tunisia, Mr. Amri's older
brother, Walid, said that the family wondered whether he became radicalized
while in jail in Italy. After his brother was released, he informed the family
that he was leaving for Germany ''with friends he had made in jail,'' Walid Amri
said.

Also unknown is whether Mr. Amri had any accomplices in the Berlin attack -- a
question that Peter Frank, Germany's top federal prosecutor, identified as a
priority for investigators.

''It is very important now to determine if there was a network of cooperators, a
network of supporters, accessories or assistants helping him to prepare the
attack, execute the attack and also to escape,'' he said at a news conference on
Friday in Karlsruhe, Germany.

The only uncertainty that seemed to be settled on Friday was that the man killed
was indeed Mr. Amri.

''There is absolutely no doubt that the person who was killed was Anis Amri, the
suspect in the terrorist attack in Berlin,'' the Italian interior minister,
Marco Minniti, said at a news conference.

''As soon as this person entered our country, he was the most wanted man in
Europe, and we immediately identified him and neutralized him,'' Mr. Minniti
said. ''This means that our security is working really well.''

Some analysts, however, said that Mr. Amri's flight over the past 72 hours from
German to Italy through France underscored Europe's porous border controls.
''Terrorists with multiple false identification documents are able to exploit
Europe's open borders. Just as Amri arrived in Europe and moved almost
seamlessly around the continent before the Berlin attack, he was able to do the
same after it,'' said Seth G. Jones, a terrorism specialist at the RAND
Corporation.

Mr. Amri traveled from Turin to Central Station in Milan, where he arrived
around 1 a.m. Friday. Surveillance cameras in the Milan train station recorded
Mr. Amri's movements, Italian investigators said. It was not clear how Mr. Amri
made his way to Sesto San Giovanni, about four miles away.

''How he traveled there and what he was doing there are subject to delicate
investigations,'' Mr. De Iesu, of the Milan police, said at the news conference.
''We have to understand whether he was in transit or was awaiting someone.''

Sesto San Giovanni is a ''a strategic hub for transportation,'' the town's
deputy mayor, Andrea Rivolta, said in an interview at city hall. ''Sesto is a
junction for the railway system, the Milan metro, municipal buses and buses that
reach all of Europe,'' as well as southern Italy.

According to the account provided by Mr. De Iesu, Mr. Amri was standing alone on
a piazza in Sesto San Giovanni, next to the northern terminus of a subway line.

When the officers stopped him and asked for identification, he responded, in
good Italian with a North African accent, that he was not carrying any documents
on him. They asked him to empty his pockets and backpack. He was carrying a
small knife and the equivalent of a few hundred dollars, but no cellphone.

But then he pulled out a pistol, Mr. De Iesu said.

''It was a regular patrol, under the new system of intensified police checks on
the territory,'' he said. ''They had no perception that it could be him,
otherwise they'd have been more careful.''

The officer whom Mr. Amri shot, identified as Cristian Movio, was wounded in the
shoulder and had surgery on Friday. The other officer, who shot Mr. Amri, was
identified as Luca Scatà.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/23/world/europe/berlin-anis-amri-killed-milan.htm
l

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Italian investigators on Friday after the death of Anis Amri,
24, the Tunisian man who is suspected of killing 12 people in a terrorist attack
on Monday in Berlin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIELE BENNATI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE --
GETTY IMAGES) (A8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 26, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Putin Sees a Happy New Year;
Op-Ed Contributor

BYLINE: MICHAEL KHODARKOVSKY

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1278 words



HIGHLIGHT: The West's democracies must stop giving Russia a pass, as its
cyberweapons undermine them far more cheaply than traditional war could.


CHICAGO - These days President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia cannot hide his glee.
This is unusual for a man trained to deceive and mislead, a man who is practiced
in his profession. In an interview with the Russian television program "Weekly
News" on Dec. 4, Mr. Putin said it was obvious that the West had failed to
create a unipolar world and that balance was being restored. He had reasons to
feel triumphant: His years of supporting anti-establishment movements in the
West, mostly on the right, by hacking and leaking private information, spreading
fake news and financing parties and individuals ready to do the Kremlin's
bidding all seem to be paying off.

Russia's methods are hardly new. Remember, for example, "The Protocols of the
Elders of the Zion," a notorious forgery concocted by the czar's secret police
and published in Russia in 1903. Purporting to describe a Jewish plot to
dominate the world, it became a bible for anti-Semites everywhere and was widely
used by the Nazis. Throughout the 20th century, disinformation and propaganda
disseminated by the Communist Party's Department of Propaganda and Agitation,
alongside its intelligence services, became part and parcel of the Soviet
regime. During the Soviet-Finnish war in the winter of 1939, for instance, as
Soviet planes bombed the Finns, the Soviet foreign minister, Vyacheslav M.
Molotov, said Moscow was dropping humanitarian aid - food and water. In response
to the lie, the Finns sarcastically named their own bombs - bottles filled with
flammable fuel - Molotov cocktails.

In post-Soviet Russia, the same cynical mendacity has become the Putin
government's hallmark. On July 9, 2014, in a meeting with public leaders at the
Kremlin, Mr. Putin referred to Joseph Goebbels, the notorious Nazi minister of
propaganda, as "a talented man who knew that the more incredible the lies, the
quicker people believe them." The quote, which he was using to condemn the
West's supposed misrepresentation of Russian history, was in fact the best
indication of Mr. Putin's own creed.

Now, in addition to undermining the legitimacy of the American presidential
election campaign, Russia has been a frequent source of fake news that targeted
the Italian prime minister, Matteo Renzi, during a recent referendum and muddled
a Swedish debate last summer about joining NATO.

Throughout Eastern Europe, Moscow has been implicated in cyberattacks and
election interference from Estonia to Bulgaria. Germany, which will hold
elections in September, is experiencing cyberattacks and fake news.

Even more surprising than Russia's aggressive behavior has been the timid
response of the West, which has let Moscow engage in cyberwarfare with impunity.
President Obama said this month that during their meeting last September, he
told Mr. Putin "to cut it out." That hardly sounds like a president concerned
with a grave threat to American democracy. His warning to Mr. Putin may have
forestalled even more brazen Russian attacks, but enough damage had already been
done. In Italy, Mr. Renzi's campaign privately complained about Russia's
interference but declined to go public. And when Germany's chancellor, Angela
Merkel, was asked on Nov. 27 about Russian meddling in Germany's electoral
campaign, she replied, "We just have to learn to live with it."

To live with it? This is not routine cyber intelligence, which many nations
practice. Russia's cyber activity seeks to confuse, destabilize and ultimately
bring to power foreign governments pliant to Russia's aims. That is an attack on
the values and institutions of democratic societies, and, if successful, it
achieves the same result as a military invasion to install a new government.

In his recent interview on Russian television, the Kremlin's chief propagandist,
Dmitri Kiselev, stated it in bald, cynical terms: "Today it is much more costly
to kill one enemy soldier than during World War II, World War I or in the Middle
Ages," adding that "if you can persuade a person, you don't need to kill him."

The Russian military views an information war as part of its military doctrine,
and Americans need to consider Russia's cyber activities as an act of war that
requires a forceful and united response. President Obama's response - at least
until now - has proved inadequate.

Unlike the Cold War, this one has no Iron Curtain and no ideological
battleground. In this new hybrid warfare, former K.G.B. men have become
oligarchs, Mr. Putin refers to Western nations as "partners," and the government
sells stakes in state companies to Western businesses and relies on Western
markets and other financial institutions. Yet behind the smoke and mirrors,
Russia remains a Potemkin village that hides a police state and an expansionist
empire, steeped in systemic corruption and governed by up-to-date techniques of
repression and manipulation.

This, too, is not new for Russia. Unhindered by public opinion, laws and
opposition political parties, Russia's autocrats have historically derived
strength from territorial expansion and geopolitical aggrandizement. Starting
with Ivan the Terrible, the Russian empire expanded for at least five centuries
- by some calculations annexing each year territory the size of Belgium - until
the Soviet Union finally collapsed in 1991. That dramatic denouement is what Mr.
Putin is desperately trying to reverse, resorting to the same tool kit used by
Soviet leaders since the formative days of the Soviet state in the early 1920s.
At that time a destitute and hungry Russia was recovering from revolution and
civil war. Still, the Bolshevik government spared no resources when it came to
propaganda and repression.

Today, Mr. Putin focuses the shrinking resources of a beleaguered Russian
economy on the twin agendas of restoring Russia's position among the world's
powers and undermining Western institutions. For him it is a zero sum game.
Moscow can easily deploy thousands of hackers and trolls to achieve maximum
disruption while Western democracies awaken too slowly to the dangers. And the
dangers are grave. From state-sponsored mass doping in sports to corrosive
business practices, from silencing political dissent at home to supporting
brutal regimes abroad, Russia's policies are rooted in deceit, graft and
violence - a combination that presents an existential challenge to democracies.

Mr. Putin's greatest success has been to help place in the White House a man who
shares many of his values and seems happy to do his bidding. But Mr. Putin is
not done yet. He seeks to promote anti-establishment candidates in next year's
elections in the Netherlands, France, Italy and Germany. If this new cold war
comes to an end with a Putin-Trump alliance, it will do so on Russia's terms,
with Russia no more democratic and the United States becoming a little more like
Russia.

Next October will mark a century since the Bolsheviks violently seized power.
That first totalitarian regime, in which Mr. Putin would later be trained,
arguably provoked the rise of other political movements that together defined
the rest of the 20th century, leading to unprecedented political violence and
wars that took the lives of tens of millions.

We simply cannot allow Moscow to define the direction of another century by
orchestrating a parade of Western democracies on their way to becoming corrupt,
autocratic societies.

Michael Khodarkovsky, a professor of history at Loyola University Chicago, is
completing a book titled "Russia's Twentieth Century."

President Vladimir V. Putin at his annual news conference in Moscow last week.
NATALIA KOLESNIKOVA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - GETTY IMAGES

Related Articles


     ·    In Russia, It's Not the Economy, Stupid


LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 27, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Trump Picks Thomas Bossert as Top Counterterrorism Adviser

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1019 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Bossert, who was President George W. Bush's deputy homeland
security adviser, will become assistant to the president for homeland security
and counterterrorism.


WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. - President-elect Donald J. Trump has named Thomas P.
Bossert, a top national security aide under President George W. Bush, to be his
homeland security adviser, the Trump transition team announced Tuesday morning.

Mr. Bossert will become assistant to the president for homeland security and
counterterrorism, a position the transition team said would be equal in status
to that of Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn, whom Mr. Trump has chosen to be his
national security adviser. The same position under President Obama has been a
deputy national security adviser.

The change in rank "reflects the unwavering commitment President-elect Trump has
to the safety and security of the nation, its people and territory," the
transition team said in a statement.

"Mr. Bossert will focus on domestic and transnational security priorities as
General Michael Flynn remains steadfastly focused on international security
challenges," it said.

Officials on Mr. Obama's national security team challenged the assertion that
Mr. Bossert had been elevated to a higher position than his counterpart in the
current administration, Lisa Monaco, who also has the title assistant to the
president.

A senior national security official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to
discuss personnel matters relating to the incoming administration, noted that
Ms. Monaco was the chairwoman of the Principals Committee of the Homeland
Security Council, had a seat on the National Security Council and participated
alongside the national security adviser during daily national security briefings
for Mr. Obama.

The new designation for Mr. Bossert may suggest a desire by the new
administration to reconfigure the national security apparatus at the White
House.

Before Mr. Obama, the homeland security adviser oversaw a staff that was
separate from the one run by the national security adviser. Mr. Obama combined
those into a single, unified staff when he came into office. Mr. Trump may be
thinking about splitting them again.

In the statement, Mr. Trump called Mr. Bossert "an invaluable asset" and praised
the breadth of experience he would bring to the new administration. "He has a
handle on the complexity of homeland security, counterterrorism and
cybersecurity challenges," Mr. Trump said.

Mr. Bossert served as deputy homeland security adviser for Mr. Bush, and he runs
a risk management consulting firm in Washington. He is also a senior fellow at
the Atlantic Council, working on the research institution's Cyber Statecraft
Initiative.

Helping to protect the country from cybercrimes is likely to be a major focus
for Mr. Bossert in light of the hacking of the Democratic National Committee and
other incidents in recent years. Mr. Bossert will face the challenge of
balancing cybersecurity needs against the privacy concerns of internet
companies.

"We must work toward cyber doctrine that reflects the wisdom of free markets,
private competition and the important but limited role of government in
establishing and enforcing the rule of law, honoring the rights of personal
property, the benefits of free and fair trade, and the fundamental principles of
liberty," Mr. Bossert said in the statement announcing his appointment.

News of Mr. Bossert's selection drew praise from some members of Congress and
former colleagues in the Bush administration, who described him as capable and
knowledgeable about threats to the country.

Representative Jim Langevin, Democrat of Rhode Island, also praised the choice.
Mr. Langevin, a founder of the Congressional Cybersecurity Caucus, said Mr.
Bossert had approached the issues of cyberthreats in a "centrist, bipartisan"
manner.

"I also hope that he will impress upon the president-elect the vital national
security concerns tied to Russian information warfare activities, and I
encourage him to work closely with Congress in attempting to build our
resilience and our defenses to forestall such operations in the future," Mr.
Langevin said in a statement.

Frances F. Townsend, who was Mr. Bush's homeland security adviser, said she was
confident that Mr. Bossert would "continue to demonstrate the capacity and
insight needed to take on the tough challenges facing the country."

She focused in particular on Mr. Bossert's expertise in another key part of the
job: responding to natural disasters and other crises that require coordination
among the White House, governors and other state officials.

In a brief text message, Ms. Townsend called Mr. Bossert a "great pick" and
recalled that he had helped lead the "after-action review" after Hurricane
Katrina in 2005, helping to create more than 100 recommendations about how to
better respond to such crises. "Tom knows the importance of public-private
partnerships and most importantly how best to establish and strengthen them,"
she said.

Also on Tuesday, the transition team formally announced that Jason D.
Greenblatt, the chief legal officer of the Trump Organization and a longtime
adviser to Mr. Trump, would serve as his special representative for
international negotiations. Mr. Greenblatt has been the president-elect's
business attorney for years, and in a statement, Mr. Trump called him "one of my
closest and most trusted advisers."

"He has a history of negotiating substantial, complex transactions on my behalf,
as well as the expertise to bring parties together and build consensus on
difficult and sensitive topics," Mr. Trump said.

As the president's special representative, Mr. Greenblatt is likely to focus on
peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians, renegotiating trade agreements
and the relationship between the United States and Cuba, among other
international issues.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Eric Schmitt contributed reporting from Washington.

PHOTO: Thomas P. Bossert

Related Articles


     ·    Michael Flynn Is Harsh Judge of C.I.A.'s Role
     ·    Trump Fires Adviser's Son From Transition for Spreading Fake News
     ·    Inside the Trump Organization, the Company That Has Run Trump's Big
          World
     ·    Obama, Trump and the Turf War That Has Come to Define the Transition


LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 27, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

A History of U.S. Foreign Affairs in Which Grandiose Ambitions Trump Realism;
Nonfiction

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: BOOKS; review

LENGTH: 1408 words



HIGHLIGHT: Presidents tend to fall prey to a "utopian temptation," says Walter
A. McDougall in "The Tragedy of U.S. Foreign Policy."


THE TRAGEDY OF U.S. FOREIGN POLICY
How America's Civil Religion Betrayed the National Interest
By Walter A. McDougall
408 pp. Yale University Press. $30.

On a chilly January morning nearly 16 years ago, my Times colleague Frank Bruni
and I went to visit the president-elect of the United States at his ranch in
Crawford, Tex. He made us coffee while his dogs barked, and said: "I just don't
understand what Gore was talking about," referring to the campaign debate about
whether the United States should be a "nation builder." He would not fall into
the trap of seeking to change the world, he vowed, when there was so much to do
at home.

Less than a year later George W. Bush invaded Afghanistan, followed by Iraq, and
began some of the grandest, and least successful, American experiments in
shaping other societies since the Marshall Plan after World War II. By the time
of his second Inaugural Address, Bush was fully converted - he saw America as on
a mission. "It is the policy of the United States," he declared, "to seek and
support the growth of democratic movements and institutions in every nation and
culture." There was no prioritizing of American national interests. "When you
stand for your liberty," he promised, "we will stand with you."

Today as another president-elect prepares to take office, he sounds like the
George W. Bush who made us coffee in his country kitchen that morning. In two
interviews earlier this year, Donald J. Trump told me and Maggie Haberman that
he, too, rejected nation-building. He was about "America first," he said, and
that meant sending few American troops abroad except to kill terrorists, and a
new, transactional relationship with longtime allies to assure they pay their
fair share. Iraq was a "disaster," which, he said, Barack Obama had worsened.

Walter A. McDougall, a professor of history at the University of Pennsylvania
who has taken on some of the broadest themes in American society and won a
Pulitzer for his brilliant history of the American space program, warns in "The
Tragedy of U.S. Foreign Policy" that once in office American presidents are
often "susceptible to a utopian temptation." They adopt a language that he
describes as "American civil religion," wrapping adventurism in a gauzy,
semireligious haze. Democracy becomes an export.

In the 19th century, as he describes the history, this was mostly limited to the
American continent. But when Manifest Destiny was fulfilled, global destiny
beckoned. So from Theodore Roosevelt's empire-building to Kennedy's "pay any
price" and Reagan's shining-city-on-a-hill, America kept recommitting itself to
remaking the world.

This is not a new theme. Walter Russell Mead's "Special Providence," published
just after the 9/11 attacks, made a convincing case about how different
imaginings of American exceptionalism were used to justify adventures abroad,
for good and ill.

But McDougall's study - and his argument that "civil religion" has often trumped
a serious discussion of American national interests - comes at a moment when the
pendulum of public opinion has swung far in the other direction. Trump owes his
election, in part, to his ability to sell a story of an America that builds up a
fearsome defensive force but uses it only against outsiders who threaten our
safety at home, or our cyber networks. The failed experiments of the past 15
years have, for the moment at least, put Americans in a defensive crouch, if not
an isolationist mood. No politician, Democrat or Republican, dares to make the
argument today that it is our divine mission to bring liberty to the world. Has
the impulse passed for good? History suggests it will be back.

McDougall is at his most convincing describing how American civil religion
episodically drove the country's thinking, from the early days of the Republic
to Truman. He's at his least persuasive explaining more recent times, and it can
be argued that he fundamentally misses how a cold-eyed view of America's
national interests became the defining element of Obama's foreign policy. For if
we were truly following the command to stand with liberty, we would have 100,000
troops in Syria.

McDougall starts with founders like Thomas Jefferson, who wrote in 1812 that the
"acquisition of Canada" would be "a mere matter of marching," and would
represent "the final expulsion of England from the American continent." That
turned out to be a more complicated task than Jefferson had in mind. But his
vision was driven more by military necessity than some sense of religious fervor
to spread the American model.

Not quite a century later, though, God and American destiny were fully merged.
Trying to figure out what to do with the Philippines, President McKinley decided
that the best choice was to annex the territory and "by God's grace do the very
best we could by them, as our fellow men for whom Christ also died." In a
Memorial Day address at Arlington National Cemetery in 1902, Theodore Roosevelt
said America had fought in the Philippines in a "triumph of civilization over
forces which stand for the black chaos of savagery and barbarism."

Franklin Roosevelt's false isolationism - a cover for his secret preparations
for entering the war - gave way as he met Winston Churchill off Newfoundland and
the two men "held hands on Sunday and sang Anglican hymns," a show of solidarity
in the battle for survival they knew was at hand. And throughout the Cold War,
McDougall argues, the battle against Communism was wrapped not only in the flag,
but in some kind of atomic theology. Truman, he notes, "was no theologian. He
was not even a very good Southern Baptist, to judge from his fondness for
bourbon, poker and profanity." But when it came to the stewardship of nuclear
weapons, he said, "We thank God that it has come to us, instead of to our
enemies; and we pray that he may guide us to use it in his ways and for his
purposes."

In the course of one of our campaign interviews, Trump told me that it was
during the 1950s - when American civil religion was at its peak - that the
country was at its strongest, and that the '50s are the era he has in mind when
he vows to make us "great again." This gets to the internal dissonance in
McDougall's argument. He makes a convincing case that civil religion was used to
justify American power. But that is different from saying that it guided how
that power was used.

The nuclear arms race, begun by Truman and accelerated by Eisenhower and
Kennedy, came less out of religious fervor than out of a conviction that
national survival depended on having the biggest arsenal. The "domino theory"
that justified the failed intervention in Vietnam was also about the perception
of American vital interests. The same was true for the 2003 invasion of Iraq: It
was first and foremost a campaign to disarm Saddam Hussein of weapons of mass
destruction. Only when it turned out there were no such weapons did liberating
the oppressed Iraqis become Bush's primary objective.

And what about Barack Obama? In McDougall's telling, there is little difference
between Obama and his predecessor; it was Obama who "echoed Bush in pledging
support for 'democracy from Asia to Africa, from the Americas to the Middle
East.'[#x200a]"

Perhaps, but to a reporter covering his presidency, Obama seemed largely immune
from civil-religion disease. His actions spoke of a very different philosophy.
The Obama Doctrine was all about the "light footprint" - drones, Special Forces
and cyber attacks - that defended American interests but occupied no territory,
and put few troops at risk. We could not seize, hold and build; only local
forces could do that. That explains Obama's hesitancy to intervene in Syria,
even when upward of a half million Syrians were dying in a civil war, or to put
an occupation force in Libya. He has even hesitated to retaliate against Russia
for attempting to influence the American presidential election - the holy
underpinning of the democratic process.

American foreign policy has certainly been influenced by civil religion over the
centuries. But the last president didn't step into that church, and the next one
is still figuring it out.

David E. Sanger covers national security for The Times and is the author, most
recently, of "Confront and Conceal: Obama's Secret Wars and Surprising Use of
American Power."

PHOTO: President George W. Bush on the U.S.S. Abraham Lincoln, May 1, 2003.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN JAFFE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - GETTY IMAGES)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 27, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

3 Men Made Millions by Hacking Merger Lawyers, U.S. Says

BYLINE: LESLIE PICKER

SECTION: BUSINESS; dealbook

LENGTH: 640 words



HIGHLIGHT: The authorities in New York charged the Chinese citizens with trading
shares of companies they illicitly learned were about to be purchased.


Law firms that advise on mergers once had to worry about a rogue employee
trading on deal tips. Now, they have to worry about hackers doing the same.

Federal prosecutors in Manhattan have chargedthree Chinese citizens with making
more than $4 million by trading on information they got by hacking into some of
the top merger-advising law firms in New York. The three men targeted at least
seven New York law firms to try to obtain information about deals in the works,
according to an indictment unsealed on Tuesday.

The men were successful in hacking two firms, stealing emails of partners who
work on mergers, prosecutors said. The three then bought shares of target
companies, selling them after the deals were announced, prosecutors said.

Shares of targets in most such transactions tend to trade higher when a deal is
announced because they are usually purchased for more than their market price.

Hackers' ability to breach the defenses of big law firms in search of
confidential information about corporate clients -- including tips about coming
mergers and acquisitions -- has long been a concern of federal authorities. Most
major law firms have played down the threat posed by hackers and have been
reluctant to discuss breaches or even attempted breaches.

"This case of cyber meets securities fraud should serve as a wake-up call for
law firms around the world," Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in
Manhattan, said in a statement. "You are and will be targets of cyberhacking
because you have information valuable to would-be criminals."

The law firms were not identified in the indictment or in a parallel civil
complaint brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Earlier this year, one large New York firm, Cravath, Swaine & Moore, confirmed
that it had been the victim of a "limited breach" of its computer network in the
summer of 2015. At the time, the law firm said it was "not aware that any of the
information that may have been accessed has been used improperly."

Cravath did not immediately respond to phone calls and emails seeking comment on
Tuesday.

"Law firms have been identified as the weakest link, and it is great to see the
U.S. attorney taking an interest," said Daniel Garrie, a law firm security
consultant.

The three men charged with insider trading and hacking are Iat Hong, Bo Zheng
and Chin Hung, the United States attorney's office and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation said. Mr. Hong, a resident of Macau, was arrested in Hong Kong on
Christmas.

The indictment and the S.E.C. complaint detailed a number of major deals in
which confidential information had been retrieved.

One law firm was hacked in connection with the sale of Intermune, an American
drug maker, to Roche of Switzerland, and the sale of Altera, a circuit
manufacturer, to Intel. In both cases, the three men entered the law firm's
servers after unlawfully obtaining an employee's credentials. They then
installed malware on the law firm's web server, prosecutors said, enabling them
to obtain information about live deals, including the price at which they were
being negotiated.

The three successfully penetrated the servers of another law firm to obtain
details about the acquisition by Pitney Bowes of Borderfree, prosecutors said.

They were extraordinarily active in pursuing information. The indictment says
that from March to September 2015, the three men "attempted to cause
unauthorized access to the networks and servers of the targeted law firms on
more than 100,000 occasions."

Lawyers for the three men could not immediately be located.

The three were also involved with a start-up robotics company that was
developing controller chips and control system solutions. They were accused of
having sought confidential information like proprietary designs from two other
robotics companies.

Matthew Goldstein contributed reporting.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     December 28, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Five Resolutions to Simplify Your Tech Life;
Tech Fix

BYLINE: BRIAN X. CHEN

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; personaltech

LENGTH: 1069 words



HIGHLIGHT: Follow these tips to improve the maintenance of your passwords,
devices and tech infrastructure. Also, shop smarter and reduce waste in 2017.


In 2017, why not try a new kind of New Year's resolution? Instead of just
hitting the gym and dropping some pounds, consider changing some personal habits
to simplify the tech in your life.

If you are like most people, there are things you do with tech that could use
some tweaking. Strengthening your password security, for one, would benefit you
tremendously in an era when hacks are rampant. For another, purging the e-junk
you have accumulated over the years would help the environment and your sanity.
While you're at it, start doing maintenance on your electronics to make sure
they work smoothly this year.

Here are my top recommendations for resolutions to abide by to make tech less
frustrating in the new year.

Clean Up Your Password Hygiene

P.U. - what's that smell? It's your bad password hygiene. You are probably using
the same password across multiple websites for banking, shopping, social media
and email.

That's understandable: A person can only memorize so many passwords. But in
2016, Yahoo reminded everybody that reusing passwords is a very bad idea, after
it revealed that 500 million Yahoo accounts were compromised in 2014, in
addition to 1 billion accounts that were hacked in 2013. If your Yahoo account
password was the same as ones you used elsewhere, those accounts were
vulnerable, too.

Start off 2017 by spending a few hours logging into each of your accounts and
creating unique, strong passwords. To make this easier, use applications like
LastPass or 1Password, which are password-managing apps that let you use one
master password to unlock a vault of passwords to log in to all of your internet
accounts. They also automatically generate strong passwords for you.

Then add an extra layer of protection by enabling two-factor verification on
your accounts whenever the option is available. When you enter your password,
you will receive a message (usually a text) with a one-time code that you must
enter before logging in.

Taking these two simple steps will help safeguard you from the inevitable hacks
that arise this year.

Maintain Your Devices

After regular use, our smartphones and computers start to feel sluggish and
short-lived, but a bit of maintenance can make them feel brand new.

First, check the condition of your batteries. With iPhone and iPads, you can
hook the devices up to a Mac and run the app coconutBattery, which reveals
battery statistics. With Android devices, you can use the app Battery by
MacroPinch. If your battery is on its last legs, it's time to order a new one or
schedule an appointment at a repair shop to replace it.

If your devices feel sluggish, freeing up some storage can also make a dramatic
difference. Start by purging apps you never use anymore. Then do something about
those photos you never look at: back up all your photos to the cloud using
services like Google Photos and then delete them from your device to start the
new year with a fresh photo roll.

Show your gadgets some physical love, too. Give your screens a good wipe with a
wetted cloth. If you own a desktop computer, open it up and use compressed air
to blow out the dust.

Do this basic maintenance every six months and your devices will run smoothly
for many years.

Mind Your Infrastructure

We don't hesitate to buy new smartphones every two years - but that neglected,
ugly Wi-Fi router tucked away in the corner of the living room may be the most
important tech product to upgrade every few years. Among all tech headaches,
there is nothing more annoying than a sluggish, spotty internet connection.

Start off each new year by doing some checks on your internet infrastructure. If
your router is more than three years old, you probably need a new one that is
compatible with today's faster, smarter wireless standards. If you are relying
on a router provided by your broadband provider, you should probably buy a more
powerful stand-alone router.

The Wirecutter, the product recommendations website owned by The New York Times,
recommends TP-Link's Archer C7 as the best router for most people. (If you have
less technical know-how, I recommend the Wi-Fi system from Eero, which offers a
smartphone app that holds your hand through the network setup.)

Be Less Wasteful

Unused gadgets and power cables take up lots of space in drawers and attics.
This e-waste would be better off sold or donated to someone in need, or recycled
for their precious metals.

During spring cleaning season, make plans to get this unwanted junk out of your
life. Companies like Amazon and Gazelle offer headache-free trade-in services
for selling used electronics. Just punch in the gadget you are trying to trade
in, like a used iPhone or Samsung Galaxy device, and the sites offer a quote for
how much money or Amazon store credit you can get in exchange for the gear. Then
pack up the outdated hardware, slap on a shipping label, drop it off at a
shipping center and wait for the money to roll in.

There is bound to be unsellable e-junk in your pile. Fortunately, all Best Buy
locations will take your used electronics and recycle them for free. Just bag
the items up and drop them off at the store's customer-service counter, and the
retailer will take care of the rest.

Be a Smarter Shopper

To get great deals on electronics, there is no need to wait until Black Friday
or Cyber Monday. Carefully research high-quality, long-lasting items you want
and buy them when their prices drop a significant amount. This technique can be
used when online shopping for just about anything, but especially for tech
products that decrease in price as they age.

Web tools like Camel Camel Camel and Keepa make price tracking on Amazon.com
easy. On their websites, just do a search on the name of the item, and the sites
will pull up a price history. From there, you can create a tracker to alert you
via email whenever a price drops to a desired amount.

Many deals that emerge throughout the year are as good, or better, than the ones
on Black Friday. You just have to know how to spot them.

Another way to save money is to consider buying used products whenever possible.
Be on the lookout for sales of used or refurbished electronics from reputable
brands like Apple, GameStop, Amazon and Gazelle. Before you buy a used item,
read about its condition carefully: Often, products sold as used were barely
touched before they were returned by a customer, or they were restored to
good-as-new condition by a refurbishing center.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     December 28, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

John Kerry, Russia, Carrie Fisher: Your Wednesday Briefing

BYLINE: JONAH ENGEL BROMWICH

SECTION: BRIEFING

LENGTH: 1019 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here's what you need to know to start your day.


Want to get this briefing by email? Here's the sign-up.

Good morning.

Here's what you need to know:

Re-emphasizing a vision for the Middle East.

Secretary of State John Kerry will outline in a speech today the
Obamaadministration's vision for a final Israeli-Palestinian accord.

It is the latest salvo in a conflict between Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
of Israel and President Obama before Donald J. Trump assumes the presidency.

Mr. Netanyahu has said that the U.S. "orchestrated" a U.N. Security Council
resolution last week condemning Israel'scontinued building of settlements in the
West Bank and East Jerusalem.

Grim H.I.V. milestone in Russia.

The number of Russians diagnosed with the virus passed the one million mark this
year.

Some officials deny that the country is experiencing an "epidemic." But others
estimate that 500,000 cases are undiagnosed, in addition to the 850,000 people
known to be infected and the 220,000 who have died since the late 1980s.

Separately, Russian officials have conceded in interviews with our reporter that
the country carried out one of the biggest doping conspiracies in sports
history.

Questions on America's nuclear future.

If former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, Mr. Trump's pick for energy secretary, is
confirmed, he will oversee a department that runs the nation's nuclear-weapons
labs. He will also most likely be pressedto resume the testing of nuclear
weapons.

Some experts fear that testing the U.S. arsenal for the first time since 1992
would risk an arms race. Others wonder if the weapons still work.

Charges in hacking of merger lawyers.

Federal prosecutors in Manhattan say that three Chinese citizens made more than
$4 million with information they obtained by hacking into New York law firms.

"This case of cyber meets securities fraud should serve as a wake-up call for
law firms around the world," the U.S. attorney in Manhattan said.

Death of a spiritual matriarch.

Tributes continue to pour in for Carrie Fisher, who died Tuesday morning at age
60, days after a heart attack during a flight.

Our film critic A. O. Scott remembers Ms. Fisher for changing a popular
understanding of female heroism, calling her the "foremother of Hermione Granger
and Katniss Everdeen and of countless latter-day Disney princesses." Others
pointed out that the actress had accomplished plenty outside the "Star Wars"
franchise.

And many fans remembered Ms. Fisher, who was candid about her struggles with
bipolar disorder, by speaking out on Twitter about their experiences with mental
illness.

Business

If Donald J. Trump makes good on his promise to impose high tariffs on companies
that don't move production to the U.S., he stands to damage his daughter
Ivanka's business.

Clean tech companies -- organizations that hope to overturn polluting industries
with industrial solutions that do not damage the environment -- are aiming for a
comeback.

2016 was the biggest year in terms of volume for the sudden undoing of major
deals -- transactions that were withdrawn after being announced -- since the
depths of the financial crisis eight years ago.

A measure of consumer confidence rose to 113.7 this month, its highest level in
more than 15 years.

U.S. markets were up on Tuesday. Here's a snapshot of global markets.

Noteworthy

More than just friends.

Carrie Fisher's death, and the holiday season, have contributed to a resurgence
of interest in the 1989 romantic comedy "When Harry Met Sally" (in which Ms.
Fisher played a scene-stealing supporting role.) We retrace the steps of the
film's title characters.

A grisly accusation.

A man who was involved in a tabloid scandal four years ago when he had a
relationship with his high school teacher has been charged with murdering her
and their4-year-old son.

Soul-searching brands.

At a time of concern over false and misleading news, many sites that promote
such reports are motivated by the money they can make from online advertising.
The dynamic that has caused a moral quandary for the marketing industry.

Take a ride in Wales.

Hope you enjoy bagpipes in the morning! Our latest 360 video takes you on the
Flying Scotsman, a steam engine that recently came out of retirement.

Trailblazing astronomer.

Vera Rubin, who transformed modern physics and astronomyby showing that galaxies
and stars are immersed in the gravitational grip of vast clouds of dark matter,
died this week at 88.

Recipe of the day.

If you're craving a smashed, diner-style hamburger, look no further.

Back Story

This year has produced some momentous events, so lets take a moment and look
back at some of the words they inspired.

Britain's decision to leave the European Union started many discussions about
"post-truth" politics. Its rise in use led to Oxford University Press naming it
word of the year.

In Germany, the equivalent, "postfaktisch," is the top word of 2016, according
to the Society for the German Language. The state-sponsored agency bases its
yearly choices on significance, rather than frequency. Third place went to
"Silvesternacht," or New Year's Eve, which has taken an unpleasant meaning since
hundreds of women in a German city were attacked as they celebrated the end of
2015.

Across the Atlantic, Merriam-Webster chose "surreal," which it says was trending
in moments of crisis this year. People who saw "The Lobster," including our
movie critic, used it in the original sense, to describe artistic expression,
too.

But a word Austria is celebrating stands out.

The yearlong campaign for presidency, which nearly gave the country its first
far-right leader since World War II, was the basis for the "postponement of the
repeat runoff of the election of the federal president."

It's otherwise known as "Bundespräsidentenstichwahlwiederholungsverschiebung."

Palko Karasz and Patrick Boehler contributed reporting.

_____

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of
the briefing should help.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the
web all morning.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ex-Bush Adviser Named to a Top Security Post

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR; Eric Schmitt contributed reporting from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 973 words


WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. -- President-elect Donald J. Trump has named Thomas P.
Bossert, a top national security aide under President George W. Bush, to be his
homeland security adviser, the Trump transition team announced Tuesday morning.

Mr. Bossert will become assistant to the president for homeland security and
counterterrorism, a position the transition team said would be equal in status
to that of Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn, whom Mr. Trump has chosen to be his
national security adviser. The same position under President Obama has been a
deputy national security adviser.

The change in rank ''reflects the unwavering commitment President-elect Trump
has to the safety and security of the nation, its people and territory,'' the
transition team said in a statement.

''Mr. Bossert will focus on domestic and transnational security priorities as
General Michael Flynn remains steadfastly focused on international security
challenges,'' it said.

Officials on Mr. Obama's national security team challenged the assertion that
Mr. Bossert had been elevated to a higher position than his counterpart in the
current administration, Lisa Monaco, who also has the title assistant to the
president.

A senior national security official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to
discuss personnel matters relating to the incoming administration, noted that
Ms. Monaco was the chairwoman of the Principals Committee of the Homeland
Security Council, had a seat on the National Security Council and participated
alongside the national security adviser during daily national security briefings
for Mr. Obama.

The new designation for Mr. Bossert may suggest a desire by the new
administration to reconfigure the national security apparatus at the White
House.

Before Mr. Obama, the homeland security adviser oversaw a staff that was
separate from the one run by the national security adviser. Mr. Obama combined
those into a single, unified staff when he came into office. Mr. Trump may be
thinking about splitting them again.

In the statement, Mr. Trump called Mr. Bossert ''an invaluable asset'' and
praised the breadth of experience he would bring to the new administration. ''He
has a handle on the complexity of homeland security, counterterrorism and
cybersecurity challenges,'' Mr. Trump said.

Mr. Bossert served as deputy homeland security adviser for Mr. Bush, and he runs
a risk management consulting firm in Washington. He is also a senior fellow at
the Atlantic Council, working on the research institution's Cyber Statecraft
Initiative.

Helping to protect the country from cybercrimes is likely to be a major focus
for Mr. Bossert in light of the hacking of the Democratic National Committee and
other incidents in recent years. Mr. Bossert will face the challenge of
balancing cybersecurity needs against the privacy concerns of internet
companies.

''We must work toward cyber doctrine that reflects the wisdom of free markets,
private competition and the important but limited role of government in
establishing and enforcing the rule of law, honoring the rights of personal
property, the benefits of free and fair trade, and the fundamental principles of
liberty,'' Mr. Bossert said in the statement announcing his appointment.

News of Mr. Bossert's selection drew praise from some members of Congress and
former colleagues in the Bush administration, who described him as capable and
knowledgeable about threats to the country.

Representative Jim Langevin, Democrat of Rhode Island, also praised the choice.
Mr. Langevin, a founder of the Congressional Cybersecurity Caucus, said Mr.
Bossert had approached the issues of cyberthreats in a ''centrist, bipartisan''
manner.

''I also hope that he will impress upon the president-elect the vital national
security concerns tied to Russian information warfare activities, and I
encourage him to work closely with Congress in attempting to build our
resilience and our defenses to forestall such operations in the future,'' Mr.
Langevin said in a statement.

Frances F. Townsend, who was Mr. Bush's homeland security adviser, said she was
confident that Mr. Bossert would ''continue to demonstrate the capacity and
insight needed to take on the tough challenges facing the country.''

She focused in particular on Mr. Bossert's expertise in another key part of the
job: responding to natural disasters and other crises that require coordination
among the White House, governors and other state officials.

In a brief text message, Ms. Townsend called Mr. Bossert a ''great pick'' and
recalled that he had helped lead the ''after-action review'' after Hurricane
Katrina in 2005, helping to create more than 100 recommendations about how to
better respond to such crises. ''Tom knows the importance of public-private
partnerships and most importantly how best to establish and strengthen them,''
she said.

Also on Tuesday, the transition team formally announced that Jason D.
Greenblatt, the chief legal officer of the Trump Organization and a longtime
adviser to Mr. Trump, would serve as his special representative for
international negotiations. Mr. Greenblatt has been the president-elect's
business attorney for years, and in a statement, Mr. Trump called him ''one of
my closest and most trusted advisers.''

''He has a history of negotiating substantial, complex transactions on my
behalf, as well as the expertise to bring parties together and build consensus
on difficult and sensitive topics,'' Mr. Trump said.

As the president's special representative, Mr. Greenblatt is likely to focus on
peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians, renegotiating trade agreements
and the relationship between the United States and Cuba, among other
international issues.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/27/us/politics/thomas-bossert-national-security-t
rump.html

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas P. Bossert

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

3 Chinese Made $4 Million Hacking Lawyers, U.S. Says

BYLINE: By LESLIE PICKER; Matthew Goldstein contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 641 words


Law firms that advise on mergers once had to worry about a rogue employee
trading on deal tips. Now, they have to worry about hackers doing the same.

Federal prosecutors in Manhattan have charged three Chinese citizens with making
more than $4 million by trading on information they got by hacking into some of
the top merger-advising law firms in New York. The three men targeted at least
seven New York law firms to try to obtain information about deals in the works,
according to an indictment unsealed on Tuesday.

The men were successful in hacking two firms, stealing emails of partners who
work on mergers, prosecutors said. The three then bought shares of target
companies, selling them after the deals were announced, prosecutors said.

Shares of targets in most such transactions tend to trade higher when a deal is
announced because they are usually purchased for more than their market price.

Hackers' ability to breach the defenses of big law firms in search of
confidential information about corporate clients -- including tips about coming
mergers and acquisitions -- has long been a concern of federal authorities. Most
major law firms have played down the threat posed by hackers and have been
reluctant to discuss breaches or even attempted breaches.

''This case of cyber meets securities fraud should serve as a wake-up call for
law firms around the world,'' Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in
Manhattan, said in a statement. ''You are and will be targets of cyberhacking
because you have information valuable to would-be criminals.''

The law firms were not identified in the indictment or in a parallel civil
complaint brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Earlier this year, one large New York firm, Cravath, Swaine & Moore, confirmed
that it had been the victim of a ''limited breach'' of its computer network in
the summer of 2015. At the time, the law firm said it was ''not aware that any
of the information that may have been accessed has been used improperly.''

Cravath did not immediately respond to phone calls and emails seeking comment on
Tuesday.

''Law firms have been identified as the weakest link, and it is great to see the
U.S. attorney taking an interest,'' said Daniel Garrie, a law firm security
consultant.

The three men charged with insider trading and hacking are Iat Hong, Bo Zheng
and Chin Hung, the United States attorney's office and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation said. Mr. Hong, a resident of Macau, was arrested in Hong Kong on
Christmas.

The indictment and the S.E.C. complaint detailed a number of major deals in
which confidential information had been retrieved.

One law firm was hacked in connection with the sale of Intermune, an American
drug maker, to Roche of Switzerland, and the sale of Altera, a circuit
manufacturer, to Intel. In both cases, the three men entered the law firm's
servers after unlawfully obtaining an employee's credentials. They then
installed malware on the law firm's web server, prosecutors said, enabling them
to obtain information about live deals, including the price at which they were
being negotiated.

The three successfully penetrated the servers of another law firm to obtain
details about the acquisition by Pitney Bowes of Borderfree, prosecutors said.

They were extraordinarily active in pursuing information. The indictment says
that from March to September 2015, the three men ''attempted to cause
unauthorized access to the networks and servers of the targeted law firms on
more than 100,000 occasions.''

Lawyers for the three men could not immediately be located.

The three were also involved with a start-up robotics company that was
developing controller chips and control system solutions. They were accused of
having sought confidential information like proprietary designs from two other
robotics companies.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/27/business/dealbook/new-york-hacking-law-firms-i
nsider-trading.html

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tech Tweaks for the New Year: 5 Painless Resolutions to Simplify Your Life

BYLINE: By BRIAN X. CHEN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1076 words


In 2017, why not try a new kind of New Year's resolution? Instead of just
hitting the gym and dropping some pounds, consider changing some personal habits
to simplify the tech in your life.

If you are like most people, there are things you do with tech that could use
some tweaking. Strengthening your password security, for one, would benefit you
tremendously in an era when hacks are rampant. For another, purging the e-junk
you have accumulated over the years would help the environment and your sanity.
While you're at it, start doing maintenance on your electronics to make sure
they work smoothly this year.

Here are my top recommendations for resolutions to abide by to make tech less
frustrating in the new year.

Clean Up Your Password Hygiene

P.U. -- what's that smell? It's your bad password hygiene. You are probably
using the same password across multiple websites for banking, shopping, social
media and email.

That's understandable: A person can only memorize so many passwords. But in
2016, Yahoo reminded everybody that reusing passwords is a very bad idea, after
it revealed that 500 million Yahoo accounts were compromised in 2014, in
addition to 1 billion accounts that were hacked in 2013. If your Yahoo account
password was the same as ones you used elsewhere, those accounts were
vulnerable, too.

Start off 2017 by spending a few hours logging into each of your accounts and
creating unique, strong passwords. To make this easier, use applications like
LastPass or 1Password, which are password-managing apps that let you use one
master password to unlock a vault of passwords to log in to all of your internet
accounts. They also automatically generate strong passwords for you.

Then add an extra layer of protection by enabling two-factor verification on
your accounts whenever the option is available. When you enter your password,
you will receive a message (usually a text) with a one-time code that you must
enter before logging in.

Taking these two simple steps will help safeguard you from the inevitable hacks
that arise this year.

Maintain Your Devices

After regular use, our smartphones and computers start to feel sluggish and
short-lived, but a bit of maintenance can make them feel brand new.

First, check the condition of your batteries. With iPhone and iPads, you can
hook the devices up to a Mac and run the app coconutBattery, which reveals
battery statistics. With Android devices, you can use the app Battery by
MacroPinch. If your battery is on its last legs, it's time to order a new one or
schedule an appointment at a repair shop to replace it.

If your devices feel sluggish, freeing up some storage can also make a dramatic
difference. Start by purging apps you never use anymore. Then do something about
those photos you never look at: back up all your photos to the cloud using
services like Google Photos and then delete them from your device to start the
new year with a fresh photo roll.

Show your gadgets some physical love, too. Give your screens a good wipe with a
wetted cloth. If you own a desktop computer, open it up and use compressed air
to blow out the dust.

Do this basic maintenance every six months and your devices will run smoothly
for many years.

Mind Your Infrastructure

We don't hesitate to buy new smartphones every two years -- but that neglected,
ugly Wi-Fi router tucked away in the corner of the living room may be the most
important tech product to upgrade every few years. Among all tech headaches,
there is nothing more annoying than a sluggish, spotty internet connection.

Start off each new year by doing some checks on your internet infrastructure. If
your router is more than three years old, you probably need a new one that is
compatible with today's faster, smarter wireless standards. If you are relying
on a router provided by your broadband provider, you should probably buy a more
powerful stand-alone router.

The Wirecutter, the product recommendations website owned by The New York Times,
recommends TP-Link's Archer C7 as the best router for most people. (If you have
less technical know-how, I recommend the Wi-Fi system from Eero, which offers a
smartphone app that holds your hand through the network setup.)

Be Less Wasteful

Unused gadgets and power cables take up lots of space in drawers and attics.
This e-waste would be better off sold or donated to someone in need, or recycled
for their precious metals.

During spring cleaning season, make plans to get this unwanted junk out of your
life. Companies like Amazon and Gazelle offer headache-free trade-in services
for selling used electronics. Just punch in the gadget you are trying to trade
in, like a used iPhone or Samsung Galaxy device, and the sites offer a quote for
how much money or Amazon store credit you can get in exchange for the gear. Then
pack up the outdated hardware, slap on a shipping label, drop it off at a
shipping center and wait for the money to roll in.

There is bound to be unsellable e-junk in your pile. Fortunately, all Best Buy
locations will recycle your used electronics for free. Just bag the items up and
drop them off at the store's customer-service counter, and the retailer will
take care of the rest.

Be a Smarter Shopper

To get great deals on electronics, there is no need to wait until Black Friday
or Cyber Monday. Carefully research high-quality, long-lasting items you want
and buy them when their prices drop a significant amount. This technique can be
used when online shopping for just about anything, but especially for tech
products that decrease in price as they age.

Web tools like Camel Camel Camel and Keepa make price tracking on Amazon.com
easy. On their websites, just do a search on the name of the item, and the sites
will pull up a price history. From there, you can create a tracker to alert you
via email whenever a price drops to a desired amount.

Many deals that emerge throughout the year are as good, or better, than the ones
on Black Friday. You just have to know how to spot them.

Another way to save money is to consider buying used products whenever possible.
Be on the lookout for sales of used or refurbished electronics from reputable
brands like Apple, GameStop, Amazon and Gazelle. Before you buy a used item,
read about its condition carefully: Often, products sold as used were barely
touched before they were returned by a customer, or they were restored to
good-as-new condition by a refurbishing center.




URL:

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 31, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

The Lauded Russian Hacker Whose Company Landed on the U.S. Blacklist

BYLINE: ANDREW E. KRAMER

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 1009 words



HIGHLIGHT: The United States' sanctions list includes the company of a minor
celebrity hacker who was once recognized by the American government for her work
helping companies fight cybercrime.


MOSCOW - The blacklist includes two people suspected of cybercrimes, and four
others who are military intelligence officers. All are the kinds of figures one
might expect to be on a list of people targeted by the Obama administration in
retaliation for Russia's malfeasance, including efforts to influence the 2016
election.

Then there is the one who calls herself "mishacker," a globe-trotter with a
rebellious online persona who is perhaps the most intriguing of the newly
revealed Russian spies.

On what appears to be her personal website, called "Hello, stranger," that
person, Alisa Shevchenko, introduces herself and expounds on some of her digital
accomplishments, including setting up a work space for hackers in Moscow.

"My name is Alisa," the site reads. "I am a human being. Part misfit, part
mishacker. A businesswoman in the past as well as in a possible future.
Currently I am mostly working on vulnerabilities and exploits, while striving to
minimize entropy in the process."

The White House identified the company Ms. Shevchenko founded, Zor Security, as
a supplier to the Russian military's Main Intelligence Directorate, or G.R.U.,
the group said to be behind the hacking attacks on the Democratic National
Committee and other political organizations. The United States government said
the company provided technical support to the G.R.U. for the attacks.

Ms. Shevchenko had been a minor celebrity in Moscow computer industry circles as
a "legal" hacker. An article in the Russian edition of Forbes magazine in 2014
described the work of her business as discovering security flaws in the software
of banks and other institutions.

And a year before the United States government applied sanctions against her
company, theDepartment of Homeland Security said she had helpedprevent
cybercrime under a program of information sharing between the public and private
sector. Ms. Shevchenko was said to have assisted a French company, Schneider
Electric, in identifying vulnerabilities in its software.

Ms. Shevchenko was recognized in a notice from the department's Industrial
Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team, set up to coordinate between the
government and industry to protect "the nation's critical infrastructure."

This nod from the American government illustrates Ms. Shevchenko's ambiguous
role and, more broadly, the diversity of people believed to be working inside
Russia's government hacking program. The inclusion of Ms. Shevchenko's company
on the American sanctions list sheds light on the sprawling scope of the effort,
which drew in students, civilians and possibly criminal hackers to bolster the
military and intelligence agencies' cyberwar abilities.

Praised in the Russian news media as a young talent in 2005, when she was just
21, Ms. Shevchenko worked on cyberdefense projects but embraced the symbols and
parlance of criminal hackers.

She has tattoos and often posts messages on Twitter under the handle "badd1e."

In a flurry of Twitter posts on Friday, Ms. Shevchenko mocked an American
sanctioning agency, the Office of Foreign Assets Control, with a vulgarism, and
said that she had already closed Zor Security.

A message sent to Ms. Shevchenko's Twitter account was not answered Friday.

"How my little simple company (closed long ago at that) could possibly appear in
the same list with the FSB and international terrorists," she wrote, using the
initials of the Russian name of the Federal Security Service, the successor to
the K.G.B.

The Forbes article identified Ms. Shevchenko as the winner of a hacking contest
in 2014, in which she had found her way into industrial control software used
for such things as running electrical power plants and grids.

"I didn't expect such triviality," she was quoted as saying after winning the
contest. She said she found "around 10 vulnerabilities in just a few hours."

On her website, Ms. Shevchenko posted a link to a blog entry on the award she
won.

"If exploited in real life, discovered vulnerabilities could cause harmful
consequences, such as denial of service, functional failure of critical
infrastructure management systems, which in its turn may disrupt normal life of
an entire city," the blog post said of her hack.

Her Twitter feed cultivates the persona of a digital rebel.

In Moscow, her website said, Ms. Shevchenko founded a working space for hackers
in the Chistye Prudy neighborhood of the capital, called Neuron Hackspace, also
ostensibly for legitimate security purposes.

The more prominent of the two cybercriminal suspects designated in the sanctions
announced by the Obama administration was Yevgeny M. Bogachev, who the Treasury
Department said was a developer of malicious software. One product, called Zeus,
was used to steal bank account information, while another, Cryptolocker,
scrambled the system of victims until they paid a ransom, according to the
Treasury Department. The sanction notice said Mr. Bogachev had stolen about $100
million from American companies and government agencies.

While the Treasury Department imposed sanctions on Mr. Bogachev for criminal
activities rather than political ones, at times in Russia's digital underworld,
the distinction is one without a difference.

In the current wave of Russian politicized hacking, code from the Zeus malware
showed up in phishing attacks, according to Dmitri Alperovitch, a co-founder and
the chief technology officer of the American cybersecurity company CrowdStrike.

The Treasury Department also imposed sanctions on Aleksei A. Belan, who is
accused in the theft of email addresses and passwords from customers of three
e-commerce companies.

"The fact is, the Russian system of mathematical education is quite good," Anton
M. Shingarev, a vice president at Kaspersky, a Russian antivirus company, said
in an interview. "And it produces a lot of computer programmers. And this is the
reason why there are a lot of Russian hackers."

PHOTO: Alisa Shevchenko on her Twitter profile.

Related Articles


     ·    Obama Strikes Back at Russia for Election Hacking
     ·    How Russia Recruited Elite Hackers for Its Cyberwar


LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
