
                               1 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 7, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Pretend Web Romance, Then a Real-Life Murder

BYLINE: By DAVID STABA

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 823 words

DATELINE: CLARENCE, N.Y.


He told her he was a young marine, recently back from Iraq.

She said she was an attractive 18-year-old woman eager to meet men, even if they
were far from her West Virginia home.

As with many relationships born on the Internet, neither was telling the truth.

In reality, the man was Thomas Montgomery, a 47-year-old married father of two
teenagers, who had spent the last 12 years working at a factory in this suburb
of Buffalo. His cyber-lover from West Virginia was also in her 40's, the police
say, but had adopted her daughter's identity, including the younger woman's
e-mail address and Web page, as her online persona.

Still, no one would have been hurt had the real world not collided with the
pair's middle-aged fantasies.

Instead, a 22-year-old co-worker of Mr. Montgomery's was shot dead one September
night as he left the power-tool plant where they were employed. Mr. Montgomery
was arrested in November and charged with second-degree murder.

''The uniqueness of this case is that everybody appeared to be misleading
everybody else, and the whole situation which resulted in a violent death was
unnecessary,'' said John J. DeFranks, Erie County's first deputy district
attorney. ''Ironically, the only person telling the truth here was the victim.''

The killing of Brian Barrett, the part-time factory worker who was a student at
nearby Buffalo State College and an aspiring teacher, stunned the rural town of
Lockport, where he had lived with his parents.

''He was kind of an easygoing, quiet kid,'' said Tom Sarkovics, the athletic
director and Mr. Barrett's baseball coach at Starpoint High School in Pendleton,
outside Lockport. ''He'd do anything you asked him to do, never complained about
running, never complained about drills.''

According to the police, the men's colleagues at the tool plant, Dynabrade, said
that Mr. Montgomery frequently bragged of his online relationship with the
supposed teenager from the time it began in May 2005.

Then, last spring, Mr. Barrett also was drawn into corresponding with the woman.
Neither man made any secret of the situation.

''It was noted by fellow employees that there was a rivalry between the two over
what they believed to be the same woman, for an extended period of time --
months,'' said Dennis Rankin, chief of the patrol services division at the Erie
County Sheriff's Department.

Mr. Barrett's involvement sprang from a dose of reality, Mr. DeFranks said. For
one thing, Mr. Montgomery's wife found an e-mail message from the woman -- whose
name the police have not released -- and wrote to her, revealing that he was not
the recent Iraq veteran he claimed to be.

In addition, Mr. DeFranks said, Mr. Montgomery had told the woman that he had a
friend named Brian and she was able to contact him.

''This woman took it upon herself to locate the person online and started
chatting with him,'' he added.

Unlike the other two points in the triangle, Mr. Barrett did not feel the need
to create a fictitious identity.

Late on Sept. 15, after finishing his work shift, Mr. Barrett was sitting in his
car when he was shot with a .30-caliber weapon in what Chief Rankin described as
a ''sniper shooting.''

''We have someone who heard the gunshots and witnesses who saw someone in the
area,'' Chief Rankin said. ''We could tie that to the time that Mr. Barrett was
last at work, which was moments before the shot.''

After learning of the connection between Mr. Montgomery, Mr. Barrett and the
woman in West Virginia, investigators searched the computers of all three and
compiled hundreds of pages of correspondence, Mr. DeFranks said, much of it of
an ''adult nature,'' as well as threats made by Mr. Montgomery toward both Mr.
Barrett and the woman.

Mr. Montgomery, a stocky man with a swirl of dark blond hair and a bushy
mustache, pleaded not guilty at his arraignment last month before State Supreme
Court Justice Amy J. Fricano, who ordered him held without bail pending a
hearing on Jan. 10 and warned him not to contact the woman.

Mr. Montgomery's lawyer, John J. Molloy, declined to comment on the case.

In the hundreds of messages exchanged, there was no indication that either man
planned to meet the woman, leaving investigators struggling to understand why
someone would kill over a relationship that existed only in cyberspace.

''I can't speculate on that,'' Mr. DeFranks said. ''It is what it is.''

The woman in West Virginia, whose true age became known to Mr. Montgomery only
after his arrest, does not face any charges.

''She was doing absolutely nothing wrong,'' Chief Rankin said. ''She obviously
didn't realize what was going to happen, or that there would be a 'love
triangle.' ''

He added: ''Mr. Barrett was a completely innocent person who was, from all
appearances, a fine, upstanding young man who was putting himself through
college. He was simply looking for a friendship on the Internet and ended up
dying for it.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas Montgomery, 47, left, is charged with killing Brian
Barrett, 22
 both corresponded online with a woman in West Virginia. (Photo by WIVB-TV)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 18, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

BYLINE: By Amy Virshup

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Newly Released; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 974 words


This month's new releases include novels by two writers better known for
nonfiction, Richard A. Clarke and Anthony Swofford. There's also a novel set in
the icy climate of Lapland, and, in nonfiction, a look at the Hartford public
schools and the legal battle to end segregation there.

Breakpoint
By Richard A. Clarke
309 pages. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $25.95.


Richard Clarke, the former National Security Council staff member whose 2004
book, ''Against All Enemies,'' chastised the Bush and Clinton administrations
for not doing enough to prevent terrorism before Sept. 11 (and became a best
seller in the process), is continuing his career as a novelist. In
''Breakpoint,'' his second thriller, Jimmy Foley, an N.Y.P.D. detective on loan
to the feds, and Susan Connor, head of the Special Projects Branch of the
Intelligence Analysis Center, try to uncover who is behind a series of attacks
on America's scientific elite and cyber infrastructure. They discover that a lot
of surprising science, from babies being given an extra set of chromosomes to
something called ''human brain reverse-engineering,'' is being carried out far
from the public eye -- and that more than one group might have reason to be
upset. Though the book is set in the near future, Mr. Clarke ends with an
author's note pointing out that much of his science is not entirely fictional.
''Sometimes you can tell more truth through fiction,'' he writes.

Paula Spencer
By Roddy Doyle
281 pages. Viking. $24.95.

  At the beginning of this novel set in Dublin, Paula (who last appeared in
Roddy Doyle's 1996 book, ''The Woman Who Walked Into Doors'') is a few weeks shy
of her 48th birthday, and four months and five days -- ''A third of a year. Half
a pregnancy, nearly.'' -- into life without drinking. Over the course of the
next year she'll worry about her four children (especially Leanne, who seems to
have inherited Paula's weakness for drink), discover the White Stripes (''It had
reminded her of the old stuff. Deep Purple, Led Zeppelin, Rory Gallagher'' ) and
takes her first steps toward, perhaps, romance. Dealing with the ups and downs
of her new life, Paula keeps reminding herself, ''It's grand; it's fine. She's
not complaining.'' Besides, ''who'd listen?''

Exit A
By Anthony Swofford
287 pages. Scribner. $25.

  In 2003 Anthony Swofford published ''Jarhead,'' a nonfiction account of his
Marine Corps service during the first gulf war. Reviewing it for The New York
Times, Michiko Kakutani said the book combined ''the black humor of 'Catch-22'
with the savagery of 'Full Metal Jacket' and the visceral detail of 'The Things
They Carried.' '' Mr. Swofford is back, this time with a novel. In the first
half of ''Exit A,'' Severin Boxx and Virginia Sachiko Kindwall are teenagers on
Yokota Air Base in Tokyo. He's a football player; she is the thrill-seeking
half-Japanese daughter of the base's general, Oliver Kindwall. She is caught up
in a kidnapping scheme that lands her in a Japanese prison and Severin back in
the States finishing high school. In the second half they find their way back to
each other. But given Mr. Swofford's sketchy plotting and narcissistic
characters, readers may not make it that far.

About Alice
By Calvin Trillin
78 pages. Random House. $14.95.

  Last year in The New Yorker, Calvin Trillin published a love letter to his
wife, Alice, who died of heart failure on Sept. 11, 2001. A slightly longer
version of Mr. Trillin's essay has now been published in this slim volume. It is
a paean to Alice, their marriage and their family life, which seems to have been
exceptionally happy. ''Mom,'' one of the Trillin daughters said at her mother's
memorial service, ''you were the coolest girl I ever knew.''

The Children in Room E4
American Education on Trial
By Susan Eaton
395 pages. Algonquin Books. $24.95.

  On a field trip to a school in a nearby suburb, one of the children in Room E4
-- Lois Luddy's classroom at the Simpson-Waverly Elementary School in the North
End of Hartford -- nervously asks her teacher, ''Is this a white school?'' After
Ms. Luddy answers the child, she turns to Susan Eaton and asks: ''Did you hear
what she asked me? Maybe I should have said, 'Yes, it is a white school, honey.
And you go to a black school. Don't you think that's crazy?' But where do you
begin?''

Ms. Eaton begins with Sheff v. O'Neill, originally filed in state court in 1989,
in which the plaintiffs argued that the black and Hispanic children of Hartford
were being denied an equal education because of the de facto segregation of the
state's public schools. In the 2001-2 school year, 94 percent of Hartford's
schoolchildren were members of racial minority groups, Ms. Eaton reports;
schools in the surrounding suburbs were white in similar proportions. She
recounts Sheff's slog through the courts -- the plaintiffs originally lost, then
won on appeal, then reached a settlement -- in parallel with the story of Ms.
Luddy's class and its progress through third and fourth grades.

Let the Northern Lights Erase Your Name
By Vendela Vida
226 pages. Ecco. $23.95.

  Within the first 10 pages of Vendela Vida's new novel, Clarissa Iverton's
father dies, she discovers that he wasn't actually her father, and then she
learns that her fiance has known this fact for 15 years. All of which sends
Clarissa on a journey to Lapland, where her mother, who abandoned the family
when Clarissa was 14, had lived among the Sami people before her marriage. In
prose as flat as Arctic light, Ms. Vida narrates Clarissa's expedition in search
of her father, which inevitably leads back to her mother. At one point Clarissa
sits in the house of a Sami healer, watching ''Fanny and Alexander'' on TV. ''I
wanted, I wanted, I wanted,'' she thinks. ''I wanted so much that what I wanted
most was not to want. I wanted to talk and talk until there was nothing left to
tell.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 21, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Virtual Town Square Reinvents Community

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 140 words



To the Editor:

As a sociologist I interpreted ''Anytown, Online'' (Jan. 14) as an indication
that Americans may no longer be ''bowling alone.''

The arrival of community-themed Web sites that emphasize local news and
information heralds the reinvention of community. By creating a new virtual town
square, it enables citizens to access information and news ranging from local
traffic reports to community news items in a timely manner while providing a
means for citizens to ''socially'' interact and comment on news postings from
their home or office computer.

This new modality of communication enables citizens to reconnect with neighbors,
friends and family, and creates a new sense of community in tune with the cyber
age. To paraphrase Marshall McLuhan, the new global village is just a mouse
click away.

Arnold Korotkin
Upper Montclair

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 28, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mars and Venus, Coping With the 21st Century

BYLINE: By LIESL SCHILLINGER

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; BOOKS OF STYLE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 907 words



The Joy of Text
Mating, Dating and Techno-Relating.
By Kristina Grish.
176 pp., Simon Spotlight Entertainment.
$12.95.

The New Rules of Marriage
What You Need to Know to Make Love Work.
By Terrence Real.
320 pp., Ballantine.
$24.95.

  LONG ago, in that dark, clamorous age before the '90s really got under way --
sometime after Wham! dropped off radio playlists, but before Vanilla Ice had
evaporated -- most people did not have e-mail or cellphones, and there were no
such things as Match.com, instant messaging, text messaging, BlackBerry or
MySpace. Back then, men and women had to actually meet in person, or phone each
other, if they wanted to talk. But scientific advances have brought remarkable
progress to the dating game, right? Not necessarily.

In ''The Joy of Text: Mating, Dating and Techno-Relating,'' the foxy young
relationship pundit Kristina Grish (the author of ''Boy Vey!'' -- tips for
non-Jewish women who hope to snare Jewish boyfriends -- among other advice
guides) shows that the great leap forward in communication has dragged along
with it a blight of text-driven power games and misunderstandings.

For instance, when a woman abruptly logs off an I.M. exchange, does she mean it
to sting or to tantalize? How long do you wait to respond to an e-mail message
(up to three days is not insulting, Ms. Grish believes) and text messages (more
than a few hours is probably a brushoff)?

Also, she cautions, be careful how you word your techno flirtation: misspellings
can be cute, or can make you look like a moron, while quirky punctuation can
make you seem unstable. If you use too many exclamation points in your
BlackBerry messages, you'll look slap-happy. If you use ALL CAPS, your iChats
can resemble death threats. ''Like it or not, you are what you type,'' Ms. Grish
declares. Shrewdly and wittily, she points the way on alphanumeric dating.

Her recommendations are often strikingly specific. An especially useful one:
What should you do when a cyber-Cyrano sends you long, eloquent missives, but
never asks you out? Pull a few words from his e-mail message that could be
''easily misconstrued'' and tease him with them. Ms. Grish instructs: ''Your
only response is one sentence: 'I'm sorry, but you just used the words ''hot,''
''pursuing'' and ''strapped'' in that last e-mail and I'm still recovering.  Is
there something you wanted to ask me?' ''

But be careful of the passions you whip up, she warns, and remember that once
you hit ''send,'' you cannot prevent your correspondent from hitting
''forward,'' or worse, posting your steamy prose on his blog, where it can be
salivated over ''by strangers with a bucket of popcorn.''

LIKE Ms. Grish, the relationship counselor Terrence Real recognizes that the
last decades have seen a revolution in the dealings between men and women that
has flummoxed both sexes. ''For most of us, whatever we learned growing up about
relationships is simply not sophisticated enough to deliver all that we hope
for,'' he writes.

He adds consolingly, ''You have been trying to negotiate a 21st-century
relationship using 20th-century skills.'' In ''The New Rules of Marriage,'' he
provides a set of ''operating instructions'' for modern couples, illustrated by
compassionately told case studies of embattled clients he has led away from the
brink of divorce.

Mr. Real isn't afraid to make breathtakingly bold statements. ''In the last
generation women have radically changed, and men, by and large, have not,'' he
writes. As a result, ''Men are not all that unhappy in their marriages. They are
unhappy that their women are so unhappy with them.'' Women, on the other hand,
''want radical transformation.'' They want their marriages to be ''intimate''
(new paradigm), not ''companionable'' (old paradigm).

If this in fact is what women want (sounds about right to me), many of them have
an awfully strange way of going about it, as Mr. Real's true-life stories show.

Venting, criticizing, blaming and complaining -- all in the name of ''honest
expression'' -- too many women provoke resentment, not sympathy, in their mates,
he explains. The men respond by giving in to their worst impulses, like
withdrawal, bullying, arrogance or stonewalling, hoping to ride out the storm.

How can we all get along? By replacing accusation with understanding, Mr. Real
suggests, and continually posing the question: ''What can I give you to help you
give me what I want?''

Mr. Real blames psychotherapy, in part, for the communication impasse: too many
Americans, he believes, have been encouraged to seek ''personal empowerment''
rather than ''relationship empowerment,'' putting themselves first, and not
trying hard enough to appreciate their partner's good points.

He identifies five major pitfalls that trip up the over-empowered individual:
Unbridled Self-Expression, Needing to Be Right, Controlling Our Partner,
Retaliation, and Withdrawal. And he provides exercises so couples can assess
their own flaws (no, don't surprise your partner by showing him your
bullet-pointed list of his failings), and strategies to increase ''cherishing.''

Mr. Real knows that readers may feel overwhelmed by his unsparing solutions to
tough-love woes. He writes, ''A part of you may be wondering, 'Has the game of
love really grown so technical that I need an intimacy coach just to have a
decent relationship?' '' In a word: Yes. Luckily, you should be able to track
one down on the Internet.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 28, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pushing Back at Bullying

BYLINE: BY GERRI HIRSHEY

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2743 words

DATELINE: GREENWICH, Conn.


THIS past November, the Greenwich High School principal, Alan J. Capasso,
greeted an early morning assembly of more than 800 freshmen about to begin a
mandatory anti-bias, anti-bullying program called ''Names Can Really Hurt Us.''
He told them, ''This is the most important day of your school year.''

In Greenwich, where diverse doesn't begin to describe the pan-cultural buzz
animating the school's hangar-size cafeteria, ''Names,'' as the program is
known, is cool -- as in ''Hey, you doing 'Names' this year? It rocks.'' After
five years, ''Names'' day is assured a place on the school calendar, along with
homecoming, SAT prep and the prom.

Farther north at New Milford High School, Jonathan Henion, a senior, stood
before a ''Names'' assembly of sophomores to share a story he insisted was no
big deal, except that it suggested how one small action could make a difference:

''I was standing in the rotunda with friends of mine, about 30 kids. I noticed
this small girl walking by. She had on a big backpack filled with heavy books,
and she fell. I just stood there watching and thought to myself, 'What a loser.'
She just lay there trying to get up. The girl's face kept getting redder and
redder listening to the relentless taunting by my friends. Something clicked. I
walked over and lifted her up, picked up her books and brushed the dirt off her
arms.''

Jonathan's little moment was greeted with huge applause; he looked surprised.
New Milford's principal, Greg P. Shugrue, sharing pizza with Jonathan and other
student panelists afterward, told them: ''This is the best school atmosphere
I've ever worked in. And it's because of the commitment to this program.''

''Names,'' which requires two months of preparation and training by students and
staff members, is not a program that any participant or observer can easily
forget. There is straight talk. There are tears, hugs, high-fives, laughs,
applause and some astonishing apologies.

''I went to observe it at Weston High School in 2000,'' said Carol Sutton, a
social studies teacher and the catalyst for bringing ''Names'' to Greenwich.
''What I saw was astounding. I was impressed by the student panelists and the
kids who got up in the open-mike segment. I was amazed. I came back and said,
'Let's get it done.' ''

Over the last 11 years, some 65,600 Connecticut high school students have
participated in ''Names,'' which is sponsored and supervised by the Connecticut
Office of the Anti-Defamation League. Guided by teachers, trained student
volunteers and league facilitators, students talk with the unflinching candor of
children about topics most adults would prefer to avoid: gossip, rumor, physical
harassment, racism, homophobia, depression, eating disorders, self-mutilation,
drinking, drugs, suicide -- the full range of bullying behavior and its
consequences.

Some students who spoke in small group and open-mike discussions are quoted
here, but to protect their privacy, neither they nor their schools are
identified.

Marji Lipshez-Shapiro, the Anti-Defamation League's Connecticut regional
director of education, who created the program in 1995, said that she first
sensed the testimonial power of students' voices when she was dean of
residential life at Connecticut College in the mid-1980s. Teenagers do talk
freely to this engaging educator who moves easily among them. As one boy, a
senior, put it, ''Marji's da bomb.''

Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro said: ''Kids are the ones who really know what's going on.
When I walk through a cafeteria and I watch the social interaction, I realize
what it takes to survive that, before you even get to academics.

''A lot of kids hurt,'' she said. ''In a forum like this, they can hear their
own voices, they can make a difference. Like 'Wow, my little story is going to
impact people.' ''

In group discussions and in an open-mike session, the stories spool out. Often,
just speaking them aloud is an act of courage. Witness the overweight girl
reciting the names she has been called, the former stutterer who rehearsed for a
month to articulate her agonies, the boy rolling up his sleeves to reveal arms
crisscrossed with scars from self-inflicted cuts. A popular teacher described
the day he heard his gay son sobbing in his room, then found his schoolbooks
scrawled with vicious antigay slurs.

On ''Names'' day, nobody minces words:

''So, um, I've got A.D.H.D., I was finally diagnosed. At least I don't think I'm
a freak anymore. I'm on medication now and working really hard. People remember
me the way I was, but I'm not like that anymore. I'm not. I'm just asking --
give me a second chance, O.K.? Just come up and say, Hi. Please.''

And from another student:

''My sister is autistic. You see her in the hallway but you don't know her.
She's the sweetest, most wonderful person. But no one will talk to her to find
out. Why does she have to hear the words retard and spaz? Why does she have to
come home crying every day?''

In a darkened school auditorium, Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro's eyes welled up when a boy
explained how he had to ask his best friends to stop calling him D. J. ''Some of
them didn't even get it, that D.J. was short for dirty Jew,'' he said. ''They
apologized. They really didn't understand how it hurt.'' It is rare that
anti-Semitism comes up in ''Names,'' but Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro explained why an
organization devoted to combating that ancient transgression got into the bully
business. ''At A.D.L., we look at the consequences of being different, at
prejudices and stereotyping and discrimination,'' she said. ''The main reason
people are bullied is because they're different or perceived to be. Our programs
are really anti-bias more than anti-bully. Our goal is to teach empathy to
perpetrators. A lot of times they have no idea of the power of what they're
doing.''

Few educators would argue against the need for a positive form of intervention.
In 2001, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development identified
school bullying as a growing public health problem. Its commissioned study found
that 29 percent of the nearly 16,000 American students surveyed said that they
had experienced bullying, either as a target, offender or both.

''Names'' is one of many anti-bullying programs being deployed across the nation
by concerned PTAs, school boards, community theater groups and even by the Girl
Scouts of America. Twenty-nine states, including Connecticut and New Jersey,
have enacted legislation against bullying, intimidation or harassment and 11
others are in the process, according to the National Conference of State
Legislatures. And New York has passed an education law that requires school
districts to devise strategies to deal with violence as part of a school safety
plan.

''Wherever we take the program, we've found that the issues raised are basically
the same,'' said a league facilitator, Sandra Vonniessen-Applebee. Though school
bullies have been around longer than chalkboards, their playground and their
reach have expanded in the information age. Young, media-saturated lives
traverse an electronic landscape, peopled with elite ''Survivor'' and ''American
Idol'' winners and an ever-growing pool of reality show losers. There are
bully-centric teenage and kiddie flicks (''Mean Girls,'' ''Ant Bully''). Teenage
chick lit series (''Gossip Girl,'' ''The Clique'') are bristling with hissy,
sarcastic vipers wrapped in Juicy Couture. And there is Bully, a video game that
depicts the adolescent atrocities facing the new student in a fictional boarding
school.

''It is a pervasive media message that being mean is cool, with put-downs and
the like,'' Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro, said, noting that cyber-bullying, which invokes
rumor and insults via the popular social-networking sites Facebook and MySpace,
has become a huge concern.

''I was online and I saw that someone posted something really lame about the
Spanish kids taking over the best tables in the cafeteria. It was a lot of mean
garbage about illegals. And I thought, well, the kids that did it are just
jerks. Then I thought no, you can't just do nothing, that's not right. These
things get bigger and out of control. So I showed it to the guidance office, and
they dealt with it.''

It was a ''bingo!'' moment for the Anti-Defamation League facilitators who heard
this comment at a meeting of student panelists.

''Yes! Now that's becoming an ally,'' said William H. Foster III, the
charismatic facilitator who emcees ''Names'' days with warmth, wit and a touch
of Bernie Mac. Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro added: ''We want to empower the targets so
that they feel yes, I can develop tools to fight back and say stop. And we want
to teach bystanders to become allies. That's the ultimate goal.''

Can bully education work? A pioneering 1988 study done in Norway by Dan Olweus,
a social researcher, found that the incidence of bullying in Norwegian schools
fell by 50 percent or more in the two years after an anti-bullying campaign;
truancy, theft and vandalism also dropped markedly.

A follow-up survey of the ''Names'' program in San Diego in 2000 found that 60
percent of students said that after the session they would be less likely to
call someone a name; nearly half reported positive changes in other students'
behavior.

''You probably have seen me around, and you might think I'm just some weird
loner. I'm in foster care; this is like my fifth or sixth school, and when
you're all going home to your parents, my sister and I are going to a group
home. It's hard to keep starting over, so sometimes I don't even dare to try.
But if you see somebody alone all the time, just remember, they're not
necessarily freaky. There's a story there -- a life. And they could probably use
a friend.''

What price, such poignant social education? The scheduling logistics and expense
of a ''Names'' program can be daunting to already-stretched budgets. The
Anti-Defamation League pays $1,000 of an average $5,000 cost, which entails
everything from hiring substitutes for participating teachers to audio-visual
aids. But school systems across the tristate area are also mindful of a rise in
costly bully-related litigation.

In Toms River, N.J., a seven-year-old case reached the New Jersey Supreme Court
last November. Connecticut, which recently strengthened its anti-bullying law,
has seen a spate of suits in Greenwich, Berlin and Stonington.

''Maybe I do like emo music. And you can see by my long hair and my clothes that
I look kind of different than other guys. But I like the way me and my friends
look -- some crazy, dark, baggy clothes and stuff but it's us, it's harmless.
Then I find this note in my locker: Emo bitch! Who gets off on doing that sort
of thing? Why?''

Trying to change the hearts and minds of bullies can be a risky business. Not
all schools opt for the open-mike segment of ''Names,'' when audience members
line up to speak their minds, though it is very popular with students. League
facilitators are at the speakers' elbows, ready to intervene should matters get
too emotional. Guidance counselors are on hand for especially fragile speakers.

But in the sessions witnessed by a reporter, it was fellow students, with
cheers, group hugs and tissues, who provided the most enveloping and accepting
reinforcement. Even those who apologized, among them teary, self-confessed mean
girls, were embraced.

''I'm still on the fence about the open-mike part,'' said Mr. Shugrue, the New
Milford principal, recalling an incident at another school when a student used
the forum to mock the proceedings. League facilitators say they have never
encountered this and that owing to the strict confidentiality policies for
''Names,'' there have been no complaints from parents.

''The first year, I got some calls from parents asking, 'What is this race
program you're doing?' '' recalled Kris Kaczkak, health education chairwoman at
New Milford. ''But now that parents know what it is, we get great support. Our
teachers volunteer anywhere from 6 to 50 hours each of their time. And I have
150 student volunteers for 50 places.''

If forgiveness and grace are shining ideals of ''Names,'' both are met in
Lorella Praeli, a lively, chestnut-maned senior who delivered a bravura closing
address at New Milford's ''Names'' day.

Afterward, in between accepting hugs and congratulations, she talked about her
experiences as a bullying target before ''Names'' helped her defuse the
problems:

''I have a right prosthetic leg; I lost my leg in a car accident when I was 2
1/2. So all my life I've heard rude remarks about it. And I'm from Peru. I moved
here about six years ago. So I've faced racism. I've had the words spoken to my
face, behind my back and online. You know, PegLeg. Spic. Border Hopper.''

Lorella, who has spoken at many other league-sponsored anti-bias events, plans a
career in advocacy, perhaps beginning with a law degree. Despite what she has
endured, she said she refused to describe herself as a victim, preferring to
focus on her conversion from a bystander.

''I wasn't the person who stopped someone from using a word that they shouldn't
have,'' she said. ''I thought, oh, it's O.K. After the program I began to
recognize that it wasn't. I feel that this program has changed the school. It's
not the same as my sophomore year.''

Right after her speech, one student asked her how she expected ''Names'' to
change a whole class, 400 students. Lorella answered: ''I told her you don't
need to change the whole class. Go for one person first.''

Carrie Malcolm, now 24 and a reformed bully, said that ''Names'' changed the
course of her life, though too late for her victim. As a middle school honor
student, leader and volunteer, Ms. Malcolm had a secret life as the tormenter,
along with six friends, of a quiet girl named Erin. ''She was an outcast,'' Ms.
Malcolm said, ''and I was the ringleader of making her life miserable.

''I remember chasing Erin down the hallway and into a classroom, singing some
awful song that I had made up about her. She was cornered against the
blackboard, crying. And I wouldn't stop screaming this song. Then I just walked
away and enjoyed the rest of my afternoon.''

Hoping to get away from the group, Erin chose to go to a different area high
school. In 1997, she was killed in a car accident on the way to class. ''We made
the last few years of her short life utter hell,'' said Ms. Malcolm, who, with
Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro's encouragement and guidance, told her story on ''Names''
day as a sophomore at her regional high school in Durham, a year after Erin's
death. At Ms. Malcolm's invitation, Erin's mother and grandmother were in the
audience. Hers was a powerful, self-lacerating speech. And she says she cannot
let the matter rest.

She has chosen a career in public service, tutoring underserved urban students
in New Haven as the executive director of the nonprofit Center for Teaching,
Learning and Child Development. And she has spoken at more than 25
Anti-Defamation League-sponsored bullying programs for students, teachers and
parents. ''I really want to get to parents,'' she said. ''My story exemplifies
what middle school bullying is like, that nobody really feels they need to do
anything about it. Parents seem to ignore it andthink it was a regular part of
growing up. I stress that it doesn't have to be that way. And I'll do it over
and over in front of parents, administrators and teachers, people that have the
power to change it.''

Another ''Names'' open-mike session was coming to a close. The final speaker, a
rangy boy in a hoodie sweatshirt, had been pacing nervously.

''Ah  yo. I just want to say I'm up here talking for me and my friends. You all
know us, right? Yeah. I've probably picked on most of you. And if any of us made
fun of you, I'm here to tell you we're sorry. It wasn't cool. We're really
sorry. Peace.''

To Take Steps

  The following Web sites provide information on bullying, mediation and
resolution:

From the United States Department of Health and Human Services:

www.stopbullyingnow.hrsa.gov

From the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention:

www.bam.gov

From the Anti-Defamation League, using children's literature to address
bullying:

www.adl.org/education/curriculum--connections/winter--2005/

From About.com, resources for parents of children being bullied and for those
who bully:

www.parentingteens.about.com/od/bullying

From Youth Crime Watch of America:

www.ycwa.org


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: ALL TOGETHER -- Above, at Greenwich High School in 2005,
student panelists in the ''Names Can Really Hurt Us'' program worked on their
speeches. Right, Carrie Malcolm tutors Cristian Fores. She says she regrets her
role in middle school bullying, and has chosen a public service career. (Photo
by Carol Sutton)
SPEAKING OUT -- Lorella Praeli, below, who has a prosthetic right leg, says she
refuses to think of herself as a victim despite taunts. (Photo by Mike Ross for
The New York Times)
 (Photo by Scott Mullin for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Drawing (Drawing by Jason
Schneider)(pg. 1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 28, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pushing Back at Bullying

BYLINE: BY GERRI HIRSHEY

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2741 words

DATELINE: GREENWICH, Conn.


THIS past November, the Greenwich High School principal, Alan J. Capasso,
greeted an early morning assembly of more than 800 freshmen about to begin a
mandatory anti-bias, anti-bullying program called ''Names Can Really Hurt Us.''
He told them, ''This is the most important day of your school year.''

In Greenwich, where diverse doesn't begin to describe the pan-cultural buzz
animating the school's hangar-size cafeteria, ''Names,'' as the program is
known, is cool -- as in ''Hey, you doing 'Names' this year? It rocks.'' After
five years, ''Names'' day is assured a place on the school calendar, along with
homecoming, SAT prep and the prom.

Farther north at New Milford High School, Jonathan Henion, a senior, stood
before a ''Names'' assembly of sophomores to share a story he insisted was no
big deal, except that it suggested how one small action could make a difference:

''I was standing in the rotunda with friends of mine, about 30 kids. I noticed
this small girl walking by. She had on a big backpack filled with heavy books,
and she fell. I just stood there watching and thought to myself, 'What a loser.'
She just lay there trying to get up. The girl's face kept getting redder and
redder listening to the relentless taunting by my friends. Something clicked. I
walked over and lifted her up, picked up her books and brushed the dirt off her
arms.''

Jonathan's little moment was greeted with huge applause; he looked surprised.
New Milford's principal, Greg P. Shugrue, sharing pizza with Jonathan and other
student panelists afterward, told them: ''This is the best school atmosphere
I've ever worked in. And it's because of the commitment to this program.''

''Names,'' which requires two months of preparation and training by students and
staff members, is not a program that any participant or observer can easily
forget. There is straight talk. There are tears, hugs, high-fives, laughs,
applause and some astonishing apologies.

''I went to observe it at Weston High School in 2000,'' said Carol Sutton, a
social studies teacher and the catalyst for bringing ''Names'' to Greenwich.
''What I saw was astounding. I was impressed by the student panelists and the
kids who got up in the open-mike segment. I was amazed. I came back and said,
'Let's get it done.' ''

Over the last 11 years, some 65,600 Connecticut high school students have
participated in ''Names,'' which is sponsored and supervised by the Connecticut
Office of the Anti-Defamation League. Guided by teachers, trained student
volunteers and league facilitators, students talk with the unflinching candor of
children about topics most adults would prefer to avoid: gossip, rumor, physical
harassment, racism, homophobia, depression, eating disorders, self-mutilation,
drinking, drugs, suicide -- the full range of bullying behavior and its
consequences.

Some students who spoke in small group and open-mike discussions are quoted
here, but to protect their privacy, neither they nor their schools are
identified.

Marji Lipshez-Shapiro, the Anti-Defamation League's Connecticut regional
director of education, who created the program in 1995, said that she first
sensed the testimonial power of students' voices when she was dean of
residential life at Connecticut College in the mid-1980s. Teenagers do talk
freely to this engaging educator who moves easily among them. As one boy, a
senior, put it, ''Marji's da bomb.''

Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro said: ''Kids are the ones who really know what's going on.
When I walk through a cafeteria and I watch the social interaction, I realize
what it takes to survive that, before you even get to academics.

''A lot of kids hurt,'' she said. ''In a forum like this, they can hear their
own voices, they can make a difference. Like 'Wow, my little story is going to
impact people.' ''

In group discussions and in an open-mike session, the stories spool out. Often,
just speaking them aloud is an act of courage. Witness the overweight girl
reciting the names she has been called, the former stutterer who rehearsed for a
month to articulate her agonies, the boy rolling up his sleeves to reveal arms
crisscrossed with scars from self-inflicted cuts. A popular teacher described
the day he heard his gay son sobbing in his room, then found his schoolbooks
scrawled with vicious antigay slurs.

On ''Names'' day, nobody minces words:

''So, um, I've got A.D.H.D., I was finally diagnosed. At least I don't think I'm
a freak anymore. I'm on medication now and working really hard. People remember
me the way I was, but I'm not like that anymore. I'm not. I'm just asking --
give me a second chance, O.K.? Just come up and say, Hi. Please.''

And from another student:

''My sister is autistic. You see her in the hallway but you don't know her.
She's the sweetest, most wonderful person. But no one will talk to her to find
out. Why does she have to hear the words retard and spaz? Why does she have to
come home crying every day?''

In a darkened school auditorium, Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro's eyes welled up when a boy
explained how he had to ask his best friends to stop calling him D. J. ''Some of
them didn't even get it, that D.J. was short for dirty Jew,'' he said. ''They
apologized. They really didn't understand how it hurt.'' It is rare that
anti-Semitism comes up in ''Names,'' but Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro explained why an
organization devoted to combating that ancient transgression got into the bully
business. ''At A.D.L., we look at the consequences of being different, at
prejudices and stereotyping and discrimination,'' she said. ''The main reason
people are bullied is because they're different or perceived to be. Our programs
are really anti-bias more than anti-bully. Our goal is to teach empathy to
perpetrators. A lot of times they have no idea of the power of what they're
doing.''

Few educators would argue against the need for a positive form of intervention.
In 2001, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development identified
school bullying as a growing public health problem. Its commissioned study found
that 29 percent of the nearly 16,000 American students surveyed said that they
had experienced bullying, either as a target, offender or both.

''Names'' is one of many anti-bullying programs being deployed across the nation
by concerned PTAs, school boards, community theater groups and even by the Girl
Scouts of America. Twenty-nine states, including Connecticut and New Jersey,
have enacted legislation against bullying, intimidation or harassment and 11
others are in the process, according to the National Conference of State
Legislatures. And New York has passed an education law that requires school
districts to devise strategies to deal with violence as part of a school safety
plan.

''Wherever we take the program, we've found that the issues raised are basically
the same,'' said a league facilitator, Sandra Vonniessen-Applebee. Though school
bullies have been around longer than chalkboards, their playground and their
reach have expanded in the information age. Young, media-saturated lives
traverse an electronic landscape, peopled with elite ''Survivor'' and ''American
Idol'' winners and an ever-growing pool of reality show losers. There are
bully-centric teenage and kiddie flicks (''Mean Girls,'' ''Ant Bully''). Teenage
chick lit series (''Gossip Girl,'' ''The Clique'') are bristling with hissy,
sarcastic vipers wrapped in Juicy Couture. And there is Bully, a video game that
depicts the adolescent atrocities facing the new student in a fictional boarding
school.

''It is a pervasive media message that being mean is cool, with put-downs and
the like,'' Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro, said, noting that cyber-bullying, which invokes
rumor and insults via the popular social-networking sites Facebook and MySpace,
has become a huge concern.

''I was online and I saw that someone posted something really lame about the
Spanish kids taking over the best tables in the cafeteria. It was a lot of mean
garbage about illegals. And I thought, well, the kids that did it are just
jerks. Then I thought no, you can't just do nothing, that's not right. These
things get bigger and out of control. So I showed it to the guidance office, and
they dealt with it.''

It was a ''bingo!'' moment for the Anti-Defamation League facilitators who heard
this comment at a meeting of student panelists.

''Yes! Now that's becoming an ally,'' said William H. Foster III, the
charismatic facilitator who emcees ''Names'' days with warmth, wit and a touch
of Bernie Mac. Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro added: ''We want to empower the targets so
that they feel yes, I can develop tools to fight back and say stop. And we want
to teach bystanders to become allies. That's the ultimate goal.''

Can bully education work? A pioneering 1988 study done in Norway by Dan Olweus,
a social researcher, found that the incidence of bullying in Norwegian schools
fell by 50 percent or more in the two years after an anti-bullying campaign;
truancy, theft and vandalism also dropped markedly.

A follow-up survey of the ''Names'' program in San Diego in 2000 found that 60
percent of students said that after the session they would be less likely to
call someone a name; nearly half reported positive changes in other students'
behavior.

''You probably have seen me around, and you might think I'm just some weird
loner. I'm in foster care; this is like my fifth or sixth school, and when
you're all going home to your parents, my sister and I are going to a group
home. It's hard to keep starting over, so sometimes I don't even dare to try.
But if you see somebody alone all the time, just remember, they're not
necessarily freaky. There's a story there -- a life. And they could probably use
a friend.''

What price, such poignant social education? The scheduling logistics and expense
of a ''Names'' program can be daunting to already-stretched budgets. The
Anti-Defamation League pays $1,000 of an average $5,000 cost, which entails
everything from hiring substitutes for participating teachers to audio-visual
aids. But school systems across the tristate area are also mindful of a rise in
costly bully-related litigation.

In Toms River, a seven-year-old case reached the New Jersey Supreme Court last
November. Connecticut, which recently strengthened its anti-bullying law, has
seen a spate of suits in Greenwich, Berlin and Stonington.

''Maybe I do like emo music. And you can see by my long hair and my clothes that
I look kind of different than other guys. But I like the way me and my friends
look -- some crazy, dark, baggy clothes and stuff but it's us, it's harmless.
Then I find this note in my locker: Emo bitch! Who gets off on doing that sort
of thing? Why?''

Trying to change the hearts and minds of bullies can be a risky business. Not
all schools opt for the open-mike segment of ''Names,'' when audience members
line up to speak their minds, though it is very popular with students. League
facilitators are at the speakers' elbows, ready to intervene should matters get
too emotional. Guidance counselors are on hand for especially fragile speakers.

But in the sessions witnessed by a reporter, it was fellow students, with
cheers, group hugs and tissues, who provided the most enveloping and accepting
reinforcement. Even those who apologized, among them teary, self-confessed mean
girls, were embraced.

''I'm still on the fence about the open-mike part,'' said Mr. Shugrue, the New
Milford principal, recalling an incident at another school when a student used
the forum to mock the proceedings. League facilitators say they have never
encountered this and that owing to the strict confidentiality policies for
''Names,'' there have been no complaints from parents.

''The first year, I got some calls from parents asking, 'What is this race
program you're doing?' '' recalled Kris Kaczkak, health education chairwoman at
New Milford. ''But now that parents know what it is, we get great support. Our
teachers volunteer anywhere from 6 to 50 hours each of their time. And I have
150 student volunteers for 50 places.''

If forgiveness and grace are shining ideals of ''Names,'' both are met in
Lorella Praeli, a lively, chestnut-maned senior who delivered a bravura closing
address at New Milford's ''Names'' day.

Afterward, in between accepting hugs and congratulations, she talked about her
experiences as a bullying target before ''Names'' helped her defuse the
problems:

''I have a right prosthetic leg; I lost my leg in a car accident when I was 2
1/2. So all my life I've heard rude remarks about it. And I'm from Peru. I moved
here about six years ago. So I've faced racism. I've had the words spoken to my
face, behind my back and online. You know, PegLeg. Spic. Border Hopper.''

Lorella, who has spoken at many other league-sponsored anti-bias events, plans a
career in advocacy, perhaps beginning with a law degree. Despite what she has
endured, she said she refused to describe herself as a victim, preferring to
focus on her conversion from a bystander.

''I wasn't the person who stopped someone from using a word that they shouldn't
have,'' she said. ''I thought, oh, it's O.K. After the program I began to
recognize that it wasn't. I feel that this program has changed the school. It's
not the same as my sophomore year.''

Right after her speech, one student asked her how she expected ''Names'' to
change a whole class, 400 students. Lorella answered: ''I told her you don't
need to change the whole class. Go for one person first.''

Carrie Malcolm, now 24 and a reformed bully, said that ''Names'' changed the
course of her life, though too late for her victim. As a middle school honor
student, leader and volunteer, Ms. Malcolm had a secret life as the tormenter,
along with six friends, of a quiet girl named Erin. ''She was an outcast,'' Ms.
Malcolm said, ''and I was the ringleader of making her life miserable.

''I remember chasing Erin down the hallway and into a classroom, singing some
awful song that I had made up about her. She was cornered against the
blackboard, crying. And I wouldn't stop screaming this song. Then I just walked
away and enjoyed the rest of my afternoon.''

Hoping to get away from the group, Erin chose to go to a different area high
school. In 1997, she was killed in a car accident on the way to class. ''We made
the last few years of her short life utter hell,'' said Ms. Malcolm, who, with
Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro's encouragement and guidance, told her story on ''Names''
day as a sophomore at her regional high school in Durham, a year after Erin's
death. At Ms. Malcolm's invitation, Erin's mother and grandmother were in the
audience. Hers was a powerful, self-lacerating speech. And she says she cannot
let the matter rest.

She has chosen a career in public service, tutoring underserved urban students
in New Haven as the executive director of the nonprofit Center for Teaching,
Learning and Child Development. And she has spoken at more than 25
Anti-Defamation League-sponsored bullying programs for students, teachers and
parents. ''I really want to get to parents,'' she said. ''My story exemplifies
what middle school bullying is like, that nobody really feels they need to do
anything about it. Parents seem to ignore it and think it was a regular part of
growing up. I stress that it doesn't have to be that way. And I'll do it over
and over in front of parents, administrators and teachers, people that have the
power to change it.''

Another ''Names'' open-mike session was coming to a close. The final speaker, a
rangy boy in a hoodie sweatshirt, had been pacing nervously.

''Ah yo. I just want to say I'm up here talking for me and my friends. You all
know us, right? Yeah. I've probably picked on most of you. And if any of us made
fun of you, I'm here to tell you we're sorry. It wasn't cool. We're really
sorry. Peace.''

To Take Steps

  The following Web sites provide information on bullying, mediation and
resolution:

From the United States Department of Health and Human Services:
www.stopbullyingnow.hrsa.gov
From the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: www.bam.gov
From the Anti-Defamation League, using children's literature to address
bullying: www.adl.org/education/curriculum--connections/winter--2005/
From About.com, resources for parents of children being bullied and for those
who bully: www.parentingteens.about.com/od/bullying
From Youth Crime Watch of America: www.ycwa.org


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: SPEAKING OUT -- Lorella Praeli, below, who has a prosthetic
right leg, says she refuses to think of herself as a victim despite taunts.
(Photo by Scott Mullin for The New York Times)
ALL TOGETHER -- Above, at Greenwich High School in 2005, student panelists in
the ''Names Can Really Hurt Us'' program worked on their speeches. Right, Carrie
Malcolm tutors Cristian Fores. She says she regrets her role in middle school
bullying, and has chosen a public service career. (Photo by Carol Sutton)
 (Photo by Mike Ross for The New York Times)(pg. 9)Drawing (Drawing by Jason
Schneider)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 28, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pushing Back at Bullying

BYLINE: BY GERRI HIRSHEY

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2750 words

DATELINE: GREENWICH, Conn.


THIS past November, the Greenwich High School principal, Alan J. Capasso,
greeted an early morning assembly of more than 800 freshmen about to begin a
mandatory anti-bias, antibullying program called ''Names Can Really Hurt Us.''
He told them, ''This is the most important day of your school year.''

In Greenwich, where diverse doesn't begin to describe the pan-cultural buzz
animating the school's hangar-size cafeteria, ''Names,'' as the program is
known, is cool -- as in ''Hey, you doing 'Names' this year? It rocks.'' After
five years, ''Names'' day is assured a place on the school calendar, along with
homecoming, SAT prep and the prom.

Farther north at New Milford High School, Jonathan Henion, a senior, stood
before a ''Names'' assembly of sophomores to share a story he insisted was no
big deal, except that it suggested how one small action could make a difference:

''I was standing in the rotunda with friends of mine, about 30 kids. I noticed
this small girl walking by. She had on a big backpack filled with heavy books,
and she fell. I just stood there watching and thought to myself, 'What a loser.'
She just lay there trying to get up. The girl's face kept getting redder and
redder listening to the relentless taunting by my friends. Something clicked. I
walked over and lifted her up, picked up her books and brushed the dirt off her
arms.''

Jonathan's little moment was greeted with huge applause; he looked surprised.
New Milford's principal, Greg P. Shugrue, sharing pizza with Jonathan and other
student panelists afterward, told them: ''This is the best school atmosphere
I've ever worked in. And it's because of the commitment to this program.''

''Names,'' which requires two months of preparation and training by students and
staff members, is not a program that any participant or observer can easily
forget. There is straight talk. There are tears, hugs, high-fives, laughs,
applause and some astonishing apologies.

''I went to observe it at Weston High School in 2000,'' said Carol Sutton, a
social studies teacher and the catalyst for bringing ''Names'' to Greenwich.
''What I saw was astounding. I was impressed by the student panelists and the
kids who got up in the open-mike segment. I was amazed. I came back and said,
'Let's get it done.' ''

Over the last 11 years, some 65,600 Connecticut high school students have
participated in ''Names,'' which is sponsored and supervised by the Connecticut
Office of the Anti-Defamation League. Guided by teachers, trained student
volunteers and league facilitators, students talk with the unflinching candor of
children about topics most adults would prefer to avoid: gossip, rumor, physical
harassment, racism, homophobia, depression, eating disorders, self-mutilation,
drinking, drugs, suicide -- the full range of bullying behavior and its
consequences.

Some students who spoke in small group and open-mike discussions are quoted
here, but to protect their privacy, neither they nor their schools are
identified.

Marji Lipshez-Shapiro, the Anti-Defamation League's Connecticut regional
director of education, who created the program in 1995, said that she first
sensed the testimonial power of students' voices when she was dean of
residential life at Connecticut College in the mid-1980s. Teenagers do talk
freely to this engaging educator who moves easily among them. As one boy, a
senior, put it, ''Marji's da bomb.''

Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro said: ''Kids are the ones who really know what's going on.
When I walk through a cafeteria and I watch the social interaction, I realize
what it takes to survive that, before you even get to academics.

''A lot of kids hurt,'' she said. ''In a forum like this, they can hear their
own voices, they can make a difference. Like 'Wow, my little story is going to
impact people.' ''

In group discussions and in an open-mike session, the stories spool out. Often,
just speaking them aloud is an act of courage. Witness the overweight girl
reciting the names she has been called, the former stutterer who rehearsed for a
month to articulate her agonies, the boy rolling up his sleeves to reveal arms
crisscrossed with scars from self-inflicted cuts. A popular teacher described
the day he heard his gay son sobbing in his room, then found his schoolbooks
scrawled with vicious antigay slurs.

On ''Names'' day, nobody minces words:

''So, um, I've got A.D.H.D., I was finally diagnosed. At least I don't think I'm
a freak anymore. I'm on medication now and working really hard. People remember
me the way I was, but I'm not like that anymore. I'm not. I'm just asking --
give me a second chance, O.K.? Just come up and say, Hi. Please.''

And from another student:

''My sister is autistic. You see her in the hallway but you don't know her.
She's the sweetest, most wonderful person. But no one will talk to her to find
out. Why does she have to hear the words retard and spaz? Why does she have to
come home crying every day?''

In a darkened school auditorium, Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro's eyes welled up when a boy
explained how he had to ask his best friends to stop calling him D. J. ''Some of
them didn't even get it, that D.J. was short for dirty Jew,'' he said. ''They
apologized. They really didn't understand how it hurt.'' It is rare that
anti-Semitism comes up in ''Names,'' but Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro explained why an
organization devoted to combating that ancient transgression got into the bully
business. ''At A.D.L., we look at the consequences of being different, at
prejudices and stereotyping and discrimination,'' she said. ''The main reason
people are bullied is because they're different or perceived to be. Our programs
are really anti-bias more than anti-bully. Our goal is to teach empathy to
perpetrators. A lot of times they have no idea of the power of what they're
doing.''

Few educators would argue against the need for a positive form of intervention.
In 2001, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development identified
school bullying as a growing public health problem. Its commissioned study found
that 29 percent of the nearly 16,000 American students surveyed said that they
had experienced bullying, either as a target, offender or both.

''Names'' is one of many anti-bullying programs being deployed across the nation
by concerned PTAs, school boards, community theater groups and even by the Girl
Scouts of America. Twenty-nine states, including Connecticut and New Jersey,
have enacted legislation against bullying, intimidation or harassment and 11
others are in the process, according to the National Conference of State
Legislatures. And New York has passed an education law that requires school
districts to devise strategies to deal with violence as part of a school safety
plan.

''Wherever we take the program, we've found that the issues raised are basically
the same,'' said a league facilitator, Sandra Vonniessen-Applebee. Though school
bullies have been around longer than chalkboards, their playground and their
reach have expanded in the information age. Young, media-saturated lives
traverse an electronic landscape, peopled with elite ''Survivor'' and ''American
Idol'' winners and an ever-growing pool of reality show losers. There are
bully-centric teenage and kiddie flicks (''Mean Girls,'' ''Ant Bully''). Teenage
chick lit series (''Gossip Girl,'' ''The Clique'') are bristling with hissy,
sarcastic vipers wrapped in Juicy Couture. And there is Bully, a video game that
depicts the adolescent atrocities facing the new student in a fictional boarding
school.

''It is a pervasive media message that being mean is cool, with put-downs and
the like,'' Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro, said, noting that cyber-bullying, which invokes
rumor and insults via the popular social-networking sites Facebook and MySpace,
has become a huge concern.

''I was online and I saw that someone posted something really lame about the
Spanish kids taking over the best tables in the cafeteria. It was a lot of mean
garbage about illegals. And I thought, well, the kids that did it are just
jerks. Then I thought no, you can't just do nothing, that's not right. These
things get bigger and out of control. So I showed it to the guidance office, and
they dealt with it.''

It was a ''bingo!'' moment for the Anti-Defamation League facilitators who heard
this comment at a meeting of student panelists.

''Yes! Now that's becoming an ally,'' said William H. Foster III, the
charismatic facilitator who emcees ''Names'' days with warmth, wit and a touch
of Bernie Mac. Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro added: ''We want to empower the targets so
that they feel yes, I can develop tools to fight back and say stop. And we want
to teach bystanders to become allies. That's the ultimate goal.''

Can bully education work? A pioneering 1988 study done in Norway by Dan Olweus,
a social researcher, found that the incidence of bullying in Norwegian schools
fell by 50 percent or more in the two years after an anti-bullying campaign;
truancy, theft and vandalism also dropped markedly.

A follow-up survey of the ''Names'' program in San Diego in 2000 found that 60
percent of students said that after the session they would be less likely to
call someone a name; nearly half reported positive changes in other students'
behavior.

''You probably have seen me around, and you might think I'm just some weird
loner. I'm in foster care; this is like my fifth or sixth school, and when
you're all going home to your parents, my sister and I are going to a group
home. It's hard to keep starting over, so sometimes I don't even dare to try.
But if you see somebody alone all the time, just remember, they're not
necessarily freaky. There's a story there -- a life. And they could probably use
a friend.''

What price, such poignant social education? The scheduling logistics and expense
of a ''Names'' program can be daunting to already-stretched budgets. The
Anti-Defamation League pays $1,000 of an average $5,000 cost, which entails
everything from hiring substitutes for participating teachers to audio-visual
aids. But school systems across the tristate area are also mindful of a rise in
costly bully-related litigation.

In Toms River, N.J., a seven-year-old case reached the New Jersey Supreme Court
last November. Connecticut, which recently strengthened its anti-bullying law,
has seen a spate of suits in Greenwich, Berlin and Stonington.

''Maybe I do like emo music. And you can see by my long hair and my clothes that
I look kind of different than other guys. But I like the way me and my friends
look -- some crazy, dark, baggy clothes and stuff but it's us, it's harmless.
Then I find this note in my locker: Emo bitch! Who gets off on doing that sort
of thing? Why?''

Trying to change the hearts and minds of bullies can be a risky business. Not
all schools opt for the open-mike segment of ''Names,'' when audience members
line up to speak their minds, though it is very popular with students. League
facilitators are at the speakers' elbows, ready to intervene should matters get
too emotional. Guidance counselors are on hand for especially fragile speakers.

But in the sessions witnessed by a reporter, it was fellow students, with
cheers, group hugs and tissues, who provided the most enveloping and accepting
reinforcement. Even those who apologized, among them teary, self-confessed mean
girls, were embraced.

''I'm still on the fence about the open-mike part,'' said Mr. Shugrue, the New
Milford principal, recalling an incident at another school when a student used
the forum to mock the proceedings. League facilitators say they have never
encountered this and that owing to the strict confidentiality policies for
''Names,'' there have been no complaints from parents.

''The first year, I got some calls from parents asking, 'What is this race
program you're doing?' '' recalled Kris Kaczkak, health education chairwoman at
New Milford. ''But now that parents know what it is, we get great support. Our
teachers volunteer anywhere from 6 to 50 hours each of their time. And I have
150 student volunteers for 50 places.''

If forgiveness and grace are shining ideals of ''Names,'' both are met in
Lorella Praeli, a lively, chestnut-maned senior who delivered a bravura closing
address at New Milford's ''Names'' day.

Afterward, in between accepting hugs and congratulations, she talked about her
experiences as a bullying target before ''Names'' helped her defuse the
problems:

''I have a right prosthetic leg; I lost my leg in a car accident when I was 2
1/2. So all my life I've heard rude remarks about it. And I'm from Peru. I moved
here about six years ago. So I've faced racism. I've had the words spoken to my
face, behind my back and online. You know, PegLeg. Spic. Border Hopper.''

Lorella, who has spoken at many other league-sponsored anti-bias events, plans a
career in advocacy, perhaps beginning with a law degree. Despite what she has
endured, she said she refused to describe herself as a victim, preferring to
focus on her conversion from a bystander.

''I wasn't the person who stopped someone from using a word that they shouldn't
have,'' she said. ''I thought, oh, it's O.K. After the program I began to
recognize that it wasn't. I feel that this program has changed the school. It's
not the same as my sophomore year.''

Right after her speech, one student asked her how she expected ''Names'' to
change a whole class, 400 students. Lorella answered: ''I told her you don't
need to change the whole class. Go for one person first.''

Carrie Malcolm, now 24 and a reformed bully, said that ''Names'' changed the
course of her life, though too late for her victim. As a middle school honor
student, leader and volunteer, Ms. Malcolm had a secret life as the tormenter,
along with six friends, of a quiet girl named Erin. ''She was an outcast,'' Ms.
Malcolm said, ''and I was the ringleader of making her life miserable.

''I remember chasing Erin down the hallway and into a classroom, singing some
awful song that I had made up about her. She was cornered against the
blackboard, crying. And I wouldn't stop screaming this song. Then I just walked
away and enjoyed the rest of my afternoon.''

Hoping to get away from the group, Erin chose to go to a different area high
school. In 1997, she was killed in a car accident on the way to class. ''We made
the last few years of her short life utter hell,'' said Ms. Malcolm, who, with
Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro's encouragement and guidance, told her story on ''Names''
day as a sophomore at her regional high school in Durham, a year after Erin's
death. At Ms. Malcolm's invitation, Erin's mother and grandmother were in the
audience. Hers was a powerful, self-lacerating speech. And she says she cannot
let the matter rest.

She has chosen a career in public service, tutoring underserved urban students
in New Haven as the executive director of the nonprofit Center for Teaching,
Learning and Child Development. And she has spoken at more than 25
Anti-Defamation League-sponsored bullying programs for students, teachers and
parents. ''I really want to get to parents,'' she said. ''My story exemplifies
what middle school bullying is like, that nobody really feels they need to do
anything about it. Parents seem to ignore it and think it was a regular part of
growing up. I stress that it doesn't have to be that way. And I'll do it over
and over in front of parents, administrators and teachers, people that have the
power to change it.''

Another ''Names'' open-mike session was coming to a close. The final speaker, a
rangy boy in a hoodie sweatshirt, had been pacing nervously.

''Ah  yo. I just want to say I'm up here talking for me and my friends. You all
know us, right? Yeah. I've probably picked on most of you. And if any of us made
fun of you, I'm here to tell you we're sorry. It wasn't cool. We're really
sorry. Peace.''

To Take Steps

  The following Web sites provide information on bullying, mediation and
resolution:

From the United States Department of Health and Human Services:

www.stopbullyingnow.hrsa.gov

From the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention:

www.bam.gov

From the Anti-Defamation League, using children's literature to address
bullying:

www.adl.org/education/curriculum--connections/winter--2005/

From About.com, resources for parents of children being bullied and for those
who bully:

www.parentingteens.about.com/od/bullying

From Youth Crime Watch of America:

www.ycwa.org



Drawing (Drawing by Jason Schneider)(pg. 1)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: ALL TOGETHER -- Above, at Greenwich High School in 2005,
student panelists in the ''Names Can Really Hurt Us'' program worked on their
speeches. Right, Carrie Malcolm tutors Cristian Fores. She says she regrets her
role in middle school bullying, and has chosen a public service career. (Photo
by Carol Sutton)
(Photo by Mike Ross for The New York Times)
 SPEAKING OUT --  Lorella Praeli, below, who has a prosthetic right leg, says
she refuses to think of herself as a victim despite taunts. (Photo by Scott
Mullin for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 28, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pushing Back at Bullying

BYLINE: BY GERRI HIRSHEY

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2743 words

DATELINE: GREENWICH


THIS past November, the Greenwich High School principal, Alan J. Capasso,
greeted an early morning assembly of more than 800 freshmen about to begin a
mandatory anti-bias, anti-bullying program called ''Names Can Really Hurt Us.''
He told them, ''This is the most important day of your school year.''

In Greenwich, where diverse doesn't begin to describe the pan-cultural buzz
animating the school's hangar-size cafeteria, ''Names,'' as the program is
known, is cool -- as in ''Hey, you doing 'Names' this year? It rocks.'' After
five years, ''Names'' day is assured a place on the school calendar, along with
homecoming, SAT prep and the prom.

Farther north at New Milford High School, Jonathan Henion, a senior, stood
before a ''Names'' assembly of sophomores to share a story he insisted was no
big deal, except that it suggested how one small action could make a difference:

''I was standing in the rotunda with friends of mine, about 30 kids. I noticed
this small girl walking by. She had on a big backpack filled with heavy books,
and she fell. I just stood there watching and thought to myself, 'What a loser.'
She just lay there trying to get up. The girl's face kept getting redder and
redder listening to the relentless taunting by my friends. Something clicked. I
walked over and lifted her up, picked up her books and brushed the dirt off her
arms.''

Jonathan's little moment was greeted with huge applause; he looked surprised.
New Milford's principal, Greg P. Shugrue, sharing pizza with Jonathan and other
student panelists afterward, told them: ''This is the best school atmosphere
I've ever worked in. And it's because of the commitment to this program.''

''Names,'' which requires two months of preparation and training by students and
staff members, is not a program that any participant or observer can easily
forget. There is straight talk. There are tears, hugs, high-fives, laughs,
applause and some astonishing apologies.

''I went to observe it at Weston High School in 2000,'' said Carol Sutton, a
social studies teacher and the catalyst for bringing ''Names'' to Greenwich.
''What I saw was astounding. I was impressed by the student panelists and the
kids who got up in the open-mike segment. I was amazed. I came back and said,
'Let's get it done.' ''

Over the last 11 years, some 65,600 Connecticut high school students have
participated in ''Names,'' which is sponsored and supervised by the Connecticut
Office of the Anti-Defamation League. Guided by teachers, trained student
volunteers and league facilitators, students talk with the unflinching candor of
children about topics most adults would prefer to avoid: gossip, rumor, physical
harassment, racism, homophobia, depression, eating disorders, self-mutilation,
drinking, drugs, suicide -- the full range of bullying behavior and its
consequences.

Some students who spoke in small group and open-mike discussions are quoted
here, but to protect their privacy, neither they nor their schools are
identified.

Marji Lipshez-Shapiro, the Anti-Defamation League's Connecticut regional
director of education, who created the program in 1995, said that she first
sensed the testimonial power of students' voices when she was dean of
residential life at Connecticut College in the mid-1980s. Teenagers do talk
freely to this engaging educator who moves easily among them. As one boy, a
senior, put it, ''Marji's da bomb.''

Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro said: ''Kids are the ones who really know what's going on.
When I walk through a cafeteria and I watch the social interaction, I realize
what it takes to survive that, before you even get to academics.

''A lot of kids hurt,'' she said. ''In a forum like this, they can hear their
own voices, they can make a difference. Like 'Wow, my little story is going to
impact people.' ''

In group discussions and in an open-mike session, the stories spool out. Often,
just speaking them aloud is an act of courage. Witness the overweight girl
reciting the names she has been called, the former stutterer who rehearsed for a
month to articulate her agonies, the boy rolling up his sleeves to reveal arms
crisscrossed with scars from self-inflicted cuts. A popular teacher described
the day he heard his gay son sobbing in his room, then found his schoolbooks
scrawled with vicious antigay slurs.

On ''Names'' day, nobody minces words:

''So, um, I've got A.D.H.D., I was finally diagnosed. At least I don't think I'm
a freak anymore. I'm on medication now and working really hard. People remember
me the way I was, but I'm not like that anymore. I'm not. I'm just asking --
give me a second chance, O.K.? Just come up and say, Hi. Please.''

And from another student:

''My sister is autistic. You see her in the hallway but you don't know her.
She's the sweetest, most wonderful person. But no one will talk to her to find
out. Why does she have to hear the words retard and spaz? Why does she have to
come home crying every day?''

In a darkened school auditorium, Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro's eyes welled up when a boy
explained how he had to ask his best friends to stop calling him D. J. ''Some of
them didn't even get it, that D.J. was short for dirty Jew,'' he said. ''They
apologized. They really didn't understand how it hurt.'' It is rare that
anti-Semitism comes up in ''Names,'' but Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro explained why an
organization devoted to combating that ancient transgression got into the bully
business. ''At A.D.L., we look at the consequences of being different, at
prejudices and stereotyping and discrimination,'' she said. ''The main reason
people are bullied is because they're different or perceived to be. Our programs
are really anti-bias more than anti-bully. Our goal is to teach empathy to
perpetrators. A lot of times they have no idea of the power of what they're
doing.''

Few educators would argue against the need for a positive form of intervention.
In 2001, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development identified
school bullying as a growing public health problem. Its commissioned study found
that 29 percent of the nearly 16,000 American students surveyed said that they
had experienced bullying, either as a target, offender or both.

''Names'' is one of many anti-bullying programs being deployed across the nation
by concerned PTAs, school boards, community theater groups and even by the Girl
Scouts of America. Twenty-nine states, including Connecticut and New Jersey,
have enacted legislation against bullying, intimidation or harassment and 11
others are in the process, according to the National Conference of State
Legislatures. And New York has passed an education law that requires school
districts to devise strategies to deal with violence as part of a school safety
plan.

''Wherever we take the program, we've found that the issues raised are basically
the same,'' said a league facilitator, Sandra Vonniessen-Applebee. Though school
bullies have been around longer than chalkboards, their playground and their
reach have expanded in the information age. Young, media-saturated lives
traverse an electronic landscape, peopled with elite ''Survivor'' and ''American
Idol'' winners and an ever-growing pool of reality show losers. There are
bully-centric teenage and kiddie flicks (''Mean Girls,'' ''Ant Bully''). Teenage
chick lit series (''Gossip Girl,'' ''The Clique'') are bristling with hissy,
sarcastic vipers wrapped in Juicy Couture. And there is Bully, a video game that
depicts the adolescent atrocities facing the new student in a fictional boarding
school.

''It is a pervasive media message that being mean is cool, with put-downs and
the like,'' Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro, said, noting that cyber-bullying, which invokes
rumor and insults via the popular social-networking sites Facebook and MySpace,
has become a huge concern.

''I was online and I saw that someone posted something really lame about the
Spanish kids taking over the best tables in the cafeteria. It was a lot of mean
garbage about illegals. And I thought, well, the kids that did it are just
jerks. Then I thought no, you can't just do nothing, that's not right. These
things get bigger and out of control. So I showed it to the guidance office, and
they dealt with it.''

It was a ''bingo!'' moment for the Anti-Defamation League facilitators who heard
this comment at a meeting of student panelists.

''Yes! Now that's becoming an ally,'' said William H. Foster III, the
charismatic facilitator who emcees ''Names'' days with warmth, wit and a touch
of Bernie Mac. Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro added: ''We want to empower the targets so
that they feel yes, I can develop tools to fight back and say stop. And we want
to teach bystanders to become allies. That's the ultimate goal.''

Can bully education work? A pioneering 1988 study done in Norway by Dan Olweus,
a social researcher, found that the incidence of bullying in Norwegian schools
fell by 50 percent or more in the two years after an anti-bullying campaign;
truancy, theft and vandalism also dropped markedly.

A follow-up survey of the ''Names'' program in San Diego in 2000 found that 60
percent of students said that after the session they would be less likely to
call someone a name; nearly half reported positive changes in other students'
behavior.

''You probably have seen me around, and you might think I'm just some weird
loner. I'm in foster care; this is like my fifth or sixth school, and when
you're all going home to your parents, my sister and I are going to a group
home. It's hard to keep starting over, so sometimes I don't even dare to try.
But if you see somebody alone all the time, just remember, they're not
necessarily freaky. There's a story there -- a life. And they could probably use
a friend.''

What price, such poignant social education? The scheduling logistics and expense
of a ''Names'' program can be daunting to already-stretched budgets. The
Anti-Defamation League pays $1,000 of an average $5,000 cost, which entails
everything from hiring substitutes for participating teachers to audio-visual
aids. But school systems across the tristate area are also mindful of a rise in
costly bully-related litigation.

In Toms River, N.J., a seven-year-old case reached the New Jersey Supreme Court
last November. Connecticut, which recently strengthened its anti-bullying law,
has seen a spate of suits in Greenwich, Berlin and Stonington.

''Maybe I do like emo music. And you can see by my long hair and my clothes that
I look kind of different than other guys. But I like the way me and my friends
look -- some crazy, dark, baggy clothes and stuff but it's us, it's harmless.
Then I find this note in my locker: Emo bitch! Who gets off on doing that sort
of thing? Why?''

Trying to change the hearts and minds of bullies can be a risky business. Not
all schools opt for the open-mike segment of ''Names,'' when audience members
line up to speak their minds, though it is very popular with students. League
facilitators are at the speakers' elbows, ready to intervene should matters get
too emotional. Guidance counselors are on hand for especially fragile speakers.

But in the sessions witnessed by a reporter, it was fellow students, with
cheers, group hugs and tissues, who provided the most enveloping and accepting
reinforcement. Even those who apologized, among them teary, self-confessed mean
girls, were embraced.

''I'm still on the fence about the open-mike part,'' said Mr. Shugrue, the New
Milford principal, recalling an incident at another school when a student used
the forum to mock the proceedings. League facilitators say they have never
encountered this and that owing to the strict confidentiality policies for
''Names,'' there have been no complaints from parents.

''The first year, I got some calls from parents asking, 'What is this race
program you're doing?' '' recalled Kris Kaczkak, health education chairwoman at
New Milford. ''But now that parents know what it is, we get great support. Our
teachers volunteer anywhere from 6 to 50 hours each of their time. And I have
150 student volunteers for 50 places.''

If forgiveness and grace are shining ideals of ''Names,'' both are met in
Lorella Praeli, a lively, chestnut-maned senior who delivered a bravura closing
address at New Milford's ''Names'' day.

Afterward, in between accepting hugs and congratulations, she talked about her
experiences as a bullying target before ''Names'' helped her defuse the
problems:

''I have a right prosthetic leg; I lost my leg in a car accident when I was 2
1/2. So all my life I've heard rude remarks about it. And I'm from Peru. I moved
here about six years ago. So I've faced racism. I've had the words spoken to my
face, behind my back and online. You know, PegLeg. Spic. Border Hopper.''

Lorella, who has spoken at many other league-sponsored anti-bias events, plans a
career in advocacy, perhaps beginning with a law degree. Despite what she has
endured, she said she refused to describe herself as a victim, preferring to
focus on her conversion from a bystander.

''I wasn't the person who stopped someone from using a word that they shouldn't
have,'' she said. ''I thought, oh, it's O.K. After the program I began to
recognize that it wasn't. I feel that this program has changed the school. It's
not the same as my sophomore year.''

Right after her speech, one student asked her how she expected ''Names'' to
change a whole class, 400 students. Lorella answered: ''I told her you don't
need to change the whole class. Go for one person first.''

Carrie Malcolm, now 24 and a reformed bully, said that ''Names'' changed the
course of her life, though too late for her victim. As a middle school honor
student, leader and volunteer, Ms. Malcolm had a secret life as the tormenter,
along with six friends, of a quiet girl named Erin. ''She was an outcast,'' Ms.
Malcolm said, ''and I was the ringleader of making her life miserable.

''I remember chasing Erin down the hallway and into a classroom, singing some
awful song that I had made up about her. She was cornered against the
blackboard, crying. And I wouldn't stop screaming this song. Then I just walked
away and enjoyed the rest of my afternoon.''

Hoping to get away from the group, Erin chose to go to a different area high
school. In 1997, she was killed in a car accident on the way to class. ''We made
the last few years of her short life utter hell,'' said Ms. Malcolm, who, with
Ms. Lipshez-Shapiro's encouragement and guidance, told her story on ''Names''
day as a sophomore at her regional high school in Durham, a year after Erin's
death. At Ms. Malcolm's invitation, Erin's mother and grandmother were in the
audience. Hers was a powerful, self-lacerating speech. And she says she cannot
let the matter rest.

She has chosen a career in public service, tutoring underserved urban students
in New Haven as the executive director of the nonprofit Center for Teaching,
Learning and Child Development. And she has spoken at more than 25
Anti-Defamation League-sponsored bullying programs for students, teachers and
parents. ''I really want to get to parents,'' she said. ''My story exemplifies
what middle school bullying is like, that nobody really feels they need to do
anything about it. Parents seem to ignore it and think it was a regular part of
growing up. I stress that it doesn't have to be that way. And I'll do it over
and over in front of parents, administrators and teachers, people that have the
power to change it.''

Another ''Names'' open-mike session was coming to a close. The final speaker, a
rangy boy in a hoodie sweatshirt, had been pacing nervously.

''Ah  yo. I just want to say I'm up here talking for me and my friends. You all
know us, right? Yeah. I've probably picked on most of you. And if any of us made
fun of you, I'm here to tell you we're sorry. It wasn't cool. We're really
sorry. Peace.''

To Take Steps

  The following Web sites provide information on bullying, mediation and
resolution:

From the United States Department of Health and Human Services:

www.stopbullyingnow.hrsa.gov

From the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention:

www.bam.gov

From the Anti-Defamation League, using children's literature to address
bullying:

www.adl.org/education/curriculum--connections/winter--2005/

From About.com, resources for parents of children being bullied and for those
who bully:

www.parentingteens.about.com/od/bullying

From Youth Crime Watch of America:

www.ycwa.org


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: ALL TOGETHER -- Above, at Greenwich High School in 2005,
student panelists in the ''Names Can Really Hurt Us'' program worked on their
speeches. Right, Carrie Malcolm tutors Cristian Fores. She says she regrets her
role in middle school bullying, and has chosen a public service career. (Photo
by Carol Sutton)
(Photo by Mike Ross for The New York Times)
 SPEAKING OUT --  Lorella Praeli, below, who has a prosthetic right leg, says
she refuses to think of herself as a victim despite taunts. (Photo by Scott
Mullin for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Drawing (Drawing by Jason Schneider)(pg. 1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 29, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Harnessing the Web To Sell Online Security

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; E-COMMERCE REPORT; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1164 words


THIRTY percent of Internet users still do not trust technology enough to buy
something online. But will they use the Web to buy security software?

The Internet service provider EarthLink hopes that they will. The company said
it would announce new security services today, to be available to both EarthLink
users and others, aimed at thwarting new hacking techniques that specialists
regard as particularly insidious. The new services could also help EarthLink
fortify its flagging bottom line and reduce customer service calls from users
afflicted by computer viruses.

''The whole axis of the world is moving toward an Internet-based economy,'' said
Craig Forman, an EarthLink executive vice president, who, among other things,
oversees sales of security services. ''Security is a critical portion of the
success of that economy.''

The new feature, called Attack Shield, is a premium offering intended to
complement the company's Protection Control Center security service, which
EarthLink subscribers receive free. Attack Shield will cost EarthLink
subscribers $24 annually, or $3 a month. Those who are not members, but who pay
$36 annually or $4 monthly for the Protection Control Center service, will
receive Attack Shield at no added cost.

Attack Shield relies on technology from Sana Security, a software vendor based
in San Mateo, Calif., that specializes in what is known as behavior-based
intrusion detection methods. Such programs essentially watch a personal computer
for suspicious-looking software -- for instance, applications hidden in remote
areas of the computer that then replicate themselves, or programs that load
themselves onto a PC unbidden.

Antivirus software companies like McAfee, Symantec and others, using
conventional Internet security methods, find a copy of such a malicious program,
identify a signature string of computer code unique to it, then circulate to
customers a software application to block programs with that signature.

The signature-based approach, though, does little for those who are victimized
by a new attack before security companies have had a chance to obtain the
program's signature and circulate an antidote. And because many hackers now are
sophisticated financial criminals, rather than the rascals of old, their
programs are more likely to mutate so quickly that the signature they leave on
one person's computer could look nothing like the signature left on someone
else's machine.

These new ''malware'' programs, as they are known in the computer security
field, are the most popular distribution method for programs that have turned an
estimated 11 percent of the world's computers into ''zombie'' machines used in
fraud, spam distribution and online identity theft.

By opening a new front in cyber crime, hackers have also opened a new market for
security companies. This month, Symantec announced a behavior-based detection
technology, called Sonar, to thwart malware intrusions, and analysts said other
companies were working hard to introduce competing technology or refine what
they already have.

EarthLink has offered Attack Shield on a trial basis since early in the month,
according to Mr. Forman, who declined to say how many customers the service had.

''Most of the users are EarthLink customers, but we're very happy with its
progress among those who aren't EarthLink customers,'' he said. ''This is part
of our strategy to widen out the potential universe of folks who EarthLink can
reach. And security is a huge part of why our existing members are loyal to
EarthLink.''

He said the security service was also an important way for EarthLink to increase
revenue as it tries to persuade Attack Shield users to become full EarthLink
subscribers. The company lost $3.2 million in the third quarter of 2006, the
latest quarter for which EarthLink has reported financial results. Revenue
increased 4.5 percent over the 2005 quarter, to $331.3 million.

EarthLink, like AOL, has struggled to grow amid heavy competition from cable
Internet providers and phone companies. It has had to glean revenue from its 5.3
million existing customers by selling them more services like Internet telephony
and online video subscriptions.

Such efforts have paid dividends, Mr. Forman said, as well as the company's
emphasis on selling security services. ''Security is very much a moneymaker for
us,'' he said.

According to Andrew Jacquith, an analyst with the Yankee Group, a technology
consulting firm based in Boston, the Attack Shield effort is likely to appeal to
a small percentage of the market at first, even though he said it was ''a step
ahead'' of other security services in effectiveness and simplicity.

''A certain amount of education needs to happen before customers figure out that
this is what they'll want to have,'' Mr. Jacquith said. ''So having companies
like EarthLink behind it will help a lot.'' He added that other Internet
providers would offer similar services to their customers in the coming months,
accelerating the process.

The consumer market for security software, which the research firm IDC said
reached $1.6 billion last year, has increasingly moved online in recent years,
as vendors like McAfee and CA align themselves with Internet service providers
to gain market share.

Selling software to consumers online is much more efficient than selling through
retail stores. But analysts have criticized security vendors for distributing
their software through Internet providers. As good as such deals are for gaining
new customers, they yield far less revenue for each subscriber -- as little as
$3 a customer, by some estimates -- compared with the $30 they can make by
selling through a retailer.

Sana has no such concerns, because it has traditionally sold to businesses, not
consumers. Sana's revenue was under $20 million last year, according to Timothy
Eades, its senior vice president for marketing, though last year's sales were
five times in 2005.

Symantec, one of the biggest security software vendors, also distributes its
software through Internet providers, but Erin Hintz, the vice president for
worldwide consumer marketing, said the company had been careful not to give its
products away too cheaply.

''We've been pretty good about striking partnerships where it's beneficial for
both parties, while some of our competitors haven't,'' Ms. Hintz said. Over all,
though, consumers have ''absolutely shifted more and more online as their
preferred buying channel,'' she said, as banks and other financial services
companies joined Internet providers in selling security software to their
customers.

Try as they may, such efforts will do little to attract the nearly one-third of
consumers who, according to Forrester Research, are still leery of buying
anything online.

''That's why people will often purchase for the first time in a retail store,''
Ms. Hintz said. ''Then when they renew their subscription, they're more
comfortable doing the transaction online.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Craig Forman, an EarthLink executive vice president over
security sales, among company mail servers in Atlanta. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser
for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               10 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 30, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Lively Market, Legal and Not, for Software Bugs

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1556 words


Microsoft says its new operating system, Windows Vista, is the most secure in
the company's history. Now the bounty hunters will test just how secure it is.

When its predecessor, Windows XP, was released five years ago, software bugs
were typically hunted by hackers for fame and glory, not financial reward. But
now software vulnerabilities -- as with stolen credit-card numbers and spammable
e-mail addresses -- carry real financial value. They are commonly bought, sold
and traded online, both by legitimate security companies, which say they are
providing a service, and by nefarious hackers and thieves.

Vista, which will be installed on millions of new PCs starting today, provides
the latest target.

This month, iDefense Labs, a subsidiary of the technology company VeriSign, said
it was offering $8,000 for the first six researchers to find holes in Vista, and
$4,000 more for the so-called exploit, the program needed to take advantage of
the weakness.

IDefense sells such information to corporations and government agencies, which
have already begun using Vista, so they can protect their own systems.

Companies like Microsoft do not endorse such bounty programs, but they have even
bigger problems: the willingness of Internet criminals to spend large sums for
early knowledge of software flaws that could provide an opening for
identity-theft schemes and spam attacks.

The Japanese security firm Trend Micro said in December that it had found a
Vista flaw for sale on a Romanian Web forum for $50,000. Security experts say
that the price is plausible, and that they regularly see hackers on public
bulletin boards or private online chat rooms trying to sell the holes they have
discovered, and the coding to exploit them.

Especially prized are so-called zero-day exploits, bits of disruption coding
that spread immediately because there is no known defense.

Software vendors have traditionally asked security researchers to alert them
first when they find bugs in their software, so that they could issue a fix, or
patch, and protect the general public. But now researchers contend that their
time and effort are worth much more.

''To find a vulnerability, you have to do a lot of hard work,'' said Evgeny
Legerov, founder of a small security firm, Gleg Ltd., in Moscow. ''If you follow
what they call responsible disclosure, in most cases all you receive is an
ordinary thank you or sometimes nothing at all.''

Gleg sells vulnerability research to a dozen corporate customers around the
world, with fees starting at $10,000 for periodic updates. Mr. Legerov says he
regularly turns down the criminals who send e-mail messages offering big money
for bugs they can use to spread malicious programs like spyware.

Misusing such information to attack computers or to aid others in such attacks
is illegal, but there appears to be nothing illegal about the act of discovering
and selling vulnerabilities. Prices for such software bugs range from a couple
of hundred dollars to tens of thousands.

Microsoft is not the only target, of course. Legitimate security researchers and
underground hackers look for weaknesses in all commonly used software, including
Oracle databases and Apple's Macintosh operating system. The more popular a
program, the higher the price for an attacking code.

The sales of Vista faults will therefore continue to trail the sale of flaws in
more widely used programs, even Windows XP, for the foreseeable future.

''Of course it concerns us,'' Mark Miller, director of the Microsoft Security
Response Center, said of the online bazaar in software flaws, which it has
declined to enter. ''With the underground trading of vulnerabilities, software
makers are left playing catch-up to develop updates that will help protect
customers.''

Throughout the 1990s, software makers and bug-hunters battled over the way
researchers disclosed software vulnerabilities. The software vendors argued that
public disclosure gave attackers the blueprints to create exploitative programs
and viruses. Security researchers charged that the vendors wanted to hide their
mistakes, and that making them public allowed companies and individual computer
users to protect their systems.

The two sides reached an uneasy compromise. Security researchers would inform
vendors of vulnerabilities, and as long as the vendor was responsive, wait for
the release of an official patch before publishing code that an attacker could
use. Vendors would give public credit to the researcher. The detente worked when
most researchers were motivated by acclaim and a desire to improve security.

But ''in the last five years the glory seekers have gone away,'' said David
Perry, global education director at Trend Micro. ''The people who are drawn to
it to make a living are not the same people who were drawn to it out of
passion.''

In 2002, iDefense Labs became one of the first companies to pay for software
flaws, offering just a few hundred dollars for a vulnerability. It administered
the program quietly for a few years, then answered early critics by arguing that
it was getting those bugs out into the open and informing software makers, at
the same time as clients, before announcing them to the general public.

''We give vendors ample time to react, and then we try to responsibly release
them,'' said Jim Melnick, the director of threat intelligence at iDefense.

In 2005, TippingPoint, a division of the networking giant 3Com, joined iDefense
in the nascent marketplace with its ''Zero-Day Initiative'' program, which last
year bought and sold 82 software vulnerabilities. IDefense said its freelance
researchers discovered 305 holes in commonly used software during 2006 -- up
from 180 in 2005 -- and paid $1,000 to $10,000 for each, depending on the
severity.

Security researchers warmed to the idea that vulnerabilities were worth real
dollars. In December 2005, a hacker calling himself ''Fearwall'' tried to sell
on eBay a program to disrupt computers through Excel, Microsoft's spreadsheet
program. Bidding reached a paltry $53 before the auction site pulled it.

Nevertheless, several Internet attacks in the following months exploited flaws
in Excel, suggesting to security experts that its creator ultimately found other
ways to sell it.

In January 2006, a Moscow-based security company, Kaspersky Labs, found more
evidence of an emerging marketplace for software bugs. Russian hacking gangs, it
disclosed at the time, had sold a ''zero-day'' program aimed at the Microsoft
graphics file format, Windows Metafile or WMF. The price: $4,000.

The program was widely used that month and allowed criminals to plant spyware
and other malicious programs on the computers of tens of thousands of
unsuspecting Internet users. Microsoft rushed out a patch.

It had to distribute another patch in September, to counter one more malicious
program, which involved a flaw in the vector graphics engine of Internet
Explorer, that enabled further cyber mischief.

Marc Maiffret, co-founder of eEye Digital Security, a computer security company,
said prices in the evolving black market quickly proved higher than what
legitimate companies would pay. ''You will always make more from bad guys than
from a company like 3Com,'' he said.

Even ethical researchers feel that companies like iDefense and TippingPoint do
not adequately compensate for the time and effort needed to discover flaws in
complex, relatively secure software.

And some hackers have little ethical compunction about who buys their research,
or what they use it for. In a phone interview last week arranged by an
intermediary in the security field, a hacker calling himself ''Segfault,'' who
said he was a college-age student in New York City, led a reporter on an online
tour of a public Web site, ryan1918.com, where one forum is provocatively titled
''Buy-Sell-Trade-0day.''

Segfault, who said he did not want to reveal his name because he engages in
potentially illegal activity, said the black market for zero-days ''just
exploded'' last year after the damaging Windows Metafile attack.

He claims he earned $20,000 last year from selling his own code -- mostly on
private chat channels, not public forums like Ryan1918 -- making enough to pay
his tuition.

Although he conceded that Microsoft had made significant strides with Vista's
security, he said underground hacker circles now had a powerful financial
incentive to find its weak links.

''Vista is going to get destroyed,'' he said.

That may be an exaggeration. Microsoft has taken precautions such as preventing
unauthorized programs from running at the most central part of the system,
called the kernel, and creating an extra level of protection between the
operating system and the browser.

Microsoft appears to wish the open market for flaws in their products would
simply disappear. ''Our practice is to explicitly acknowledge and thank
researchers when they find an issue in our software,'' said Mike Reavey,
operations manager of the company's security response center. ''While that's not
a monetary reward, we think there is value in it.''

But independent security analysts say those days are over. Raimund Genes, the
Trend Micro researcher who found the Vista bug for sale on a Romanian Web site,
said, ''The driving force behind all this now is cash.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               11 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 31, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hobbled by Disappointing Sales and a Loss at the Game Unit, Sony's Profit Drops
5%

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1180 words

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 30


The dip in Sony's quarterly earnings released early Tuesday underscores what
many analysts call the biggest single challenge now facing the recovering
Japanese electronics conglomerate: the shaky start of its long-awaited
PlayStation 3 game console.

On Tuesday, Sony said net profit slipped 5.3 percent, to 159.9 billion yen
($1.31 billion), in the quarter ended Dec. 31. The company, based in Tokyo,
blamed a large loss in its games division, despite rebounding sales in its
bread-and-better consumer electronics.

The games division posted a quarterly operating loss of 54.2 billion yen ($446
million), in contrast to a profit of 67.8 billion yen in the quarter a year
earlier. Sony said the decline was a result of a decision to set the price of
the PlayStation 3 below the cost of production as a way to bolster market share.
It also pointed to one-time start-up costs for PlayStation 3, which was released
in Japan and the United States in November.

Analysts, however, said the weak results reflected more fundamental problems
with the new console -- a high price tag and a complexity that is scaring away
all but die-hard game fans. They added that Sony still had plenty of time to
turn PlayStation 3's fortunes around, but only if it cut prices further and made
the console more appealing by adding games.

''PlayStation 3's performance so far? In a word, bad,'' said Yuta Sakurai, an
analyst at Nomura Securities. ''It is clearly not good for Sony that a strategic
product is off to a weak start. But it's still early. This race is a marathon,
not a sprint.''

Sony and its chief executive, Howard Stringer, had hoped that PlayStation 3
would become the company's latest ''champion product,'' much like its
predecessor, the PlayStation 2, which became a worldwide blockbuster with more
than 106 million units sold since 2000.

Faced with rising Chinese and other Asian competition, Sony badly needs
PlayStation 3 to be a hit of the same magnitude, analysts say. This need is
compounded, analysts said, by the reality that Sony has no other potential
megahits now visible in its product pipeline.

But as Tuesday's earnings showed, consumer response has so far been
disappointing at best, the analysts continued. This has added to recent woes of
Sony that include an embarrassing recall late last year of laptop batteries,
some of which caught fire.

The poor performance of the games division stood in contrast to other parts of
the company's sprawling lineup of products. Sony said Tuesday that it was
increasing its profit forecast for the year after strong sales of core consumer
products like television sets and digital cameras and movies like the newest
James Bond film, ''Casino Royale.''

Consumer electronics, the biggest division, posted an operating profit of 177.4
billion yen ($1.46 billion), up 102.8 percent, helped by the popularity of
Bravia flat-panel TVs, Vaio computers and Cyber-shot digital cameras. Analysts
agree that the strong sales in the once-ailing electronics division, the world's
second largest behind the Matsushita Electric Industrial Company, the parent of
Panasonic, have been a success story for Sony and Mr. Stringer.

Another has been improving sales by Sony's movie studio, which has produced a
string of hits including the Bond film and ''The Da Vinci Code'' -- one of Mr.
Stringer's pet projects. Sony is also hoping to continue mining the success of
its Spider-Man films with the release of ''Spider-Man 3'' in May.

The movie division had an operating profit of 26.2 billion yen ($215.4 million),
reversing a loss of 400 million yen a year earlier. The improved results helped
Sony do better than analysts' predictions that its net profit would fall by half
in the most recent quarter. They also helped Sony raise its projected net profit
for the fiscal year ending March 31 to 110 billion yen, from an October forecast
of 80 billion yen.

But analysts said that before Sony could pull out of its long slump once and for
all, it has to deal with the problems in its game division.

One reason, they said, is that so many other new products are riding on
PlayStation 3's success. Sony hopes that the console will showcase two of the
most recent technologies, the Blu-ray next-generation DVD drive and the
high-speed Cell microprocessor.

''Sony needs to raise demand for its semiconductors to recoup its huge capital
investments in chip factories,'' said Yoshiharu Izumi, an analyst at JPMorgan
Securities, who said those investments run in the billions of dollars. ''Fixing
its chip business goes together with improving the games division.''

Tuesday's results provided the latest glimpse at the weaker-than-expected demand
for PlayStation 3, analysts said. Sony said it shipped 1.84 million PlayStation
3s in the quarter, and sold 5.2 million copies of game software for the console.
Nintendo, by contrast, recently announced that it shipped 3.2 million units of
its new game console, Wii, and sold 17.5 million copies of software in the
period.

As recently as the Las Vegas electronics show early this month, Sony proclaimed
that it had met its targets of shipping a million PlayStation 3s in the United
States and Japan. But independent research groups say that Wii has outsold
PlayStation 3 by 2 to 1 in Japan and by a smaller margin in America. The
Microsoft Xbox 360 has also outsold PlayStation 3 in the United States, as has
the Sony PlayStation 2.

Some of PlayStation 3's problems can be attributed to manufacturing delays that
pushed back its release by months, and then slowed production. The delays pushed
PlayStation 3's release in Europe back to March.

But analysts and consumers also point to a more basic problem: appealing to
consumers. While PlayStation 3 surpasses both Wii and Xbox 360 in performance
and graphics, the critics say it suffers from the same problem as many other
Sony products: it is overengineered, scaring away average shoppers.

Many consumers have also favored the Wii and Xbox 360 because of their lower
prices. At $249 in the United States, Wii is half the price of the cheapest
PlayStation 3, while Xbox starts at $299.

''For many consumers, it's still just too much,'' Mr. Sakurai of Nomura said,
''too much machine for too much money.''Settlement Over Software

WASHINGTON, Jan. 30 (Reuters) -- The Federal Trade Commission said on Tuesday
that Sony BMG had agreed to settle charges that it secretly embedded potentially
damaging antipiracy software in some CDs.

The settlement requires Sony BMG, a joint venture of Sony and Bertelsmann, to
make further disclosures, allow consumers to exchange the CDs, and reimburse
consumers up to $150 to repair any damage to their computers.

The F.T.C. said Sony BMG violated the law by embedding some music CDs with
software that installed itself on consumers' computers without their consent and
restricted the number of times the audio files could be copied. It was also used
to help send them marketing messages, the agency said.

The software at issue was included on millions of Sony BMG compact discs sold in
2005, the F.T.C. said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               12 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 1, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Britain Arrests 9 Suspects in Terrorist Kidnapping Plot

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 914 words

DATELINE: LONDON, Jan. 31


The British police conducted a series of raids on Wednesday, arresting nine
suspects on terrorism charges in what appeared to be a shift in the tactics of
terrorism in Britain. The suspects are accused of devising a plot that included
plans to kidnap, torture and behead a British Muslim soldier and broadcast video
images of his killing on the Internet.

The arrests, in the central city of Birmingham, were part of what the
authorities called a major operation involving hundreds of officers after months
of preparation. Eight suspects were arrested in eight different homes, and a
ninth was seized on a highway near the city, the police said. Four businesses
were also searched.

''We are right at the foothills of a very major investigation for us,''
Assistant Chief Constable David Shaw, the Birmingham police officer leading the
inquiry, said at a news conference. He declined to describe any details of the
case or identify the suspects by name.

However, the British news media have widely reported details of the supposed
plot, which have not been officially denied. If true, the plan would be a marked
departure from previous terrorist plots, like the July 7, 2005, London bombings,
intended to cause mass fatalities using explosives.

Last August, for instance, British and American investigators said they averted
a plot by terrorists to use liquid explosives to blow up trans-Atlantic
airliners carrying hundreds of people. A plan of this kind would also support
what counterterrorism experts have depicted as the central role of the Internet
in modern insurgencies and conspiracies to broadcast propaganda and spread
images. Web sites have been widely used to broadcast gruesome images of
beheadings in Iraq and to spread militant Islamic views.

''If such a plot were to be targeted against an individual, then it would be a
very new development as far as Britain is concerned,'' said Paul Rogers, an
expert on terrorism at the University of Bradford. ''The key point is whether
this alleged plan was something being encouraged by the wider Al Qaeda movement
or was a one-off, independent action.''

The target for the attack was reportedly a soldier in his 20s who had served
with British forces in Afghanistan and is now hiding in a police safe house in
Britain.

The Home Office in London called the arrests ''a major counterterrorism
operation.''

Britain's terrorism laws allow the police to detain suspects for up to 28 days
without bringing formal charges. ''This remains a dynamic, fluid operation and
this is by no means finished,'' said Assistant Chief Constable Shaw of the
Birmingham police. The search of premises, he said, ''will take days or possibly
weeks.''

The police began to move in on the suspects at 4 a.m. in Birmingham, Britain's
second largest city, which has a large Muslim minority drawn initially from
Pakistani immigrants in the 1960s. The police action spread through the run-down
Sparkhill neighborhood and other areas, including raids on the Maktabah Islamic
bookstore, the Blades Cyber Cafe and an innocuous-seeming row house. Several
vehicles, including a white van, were towed away.

The announcement of another suspected terrorism plot has not surprised many
Britons, who are used to regular warnings from the authorities. Six men are
currently on trial in connection with four attempted bombings on July 21, 2005,
two weeks after the London bombings that killed 52 people and the 4 suicide
bombers.

Last November, MI5, the domestic intelligence agency, said it was keeping 1,600
suspects in 200 terrorist cells under surveillance. At the time, Dame Eliza
Manningham-Buller, the director of MI5, spoke of around 30 conspiracies that
might include ''the use of chemicals, bacteriological agents, radioactive
materials and even nuclear technology.''

The Pakistan Foreign Office acknowledged on Wednesday that British officials had
recently inquired about whether some of the nine men arrested in Birmingham had
traveled to Pakistan.

Some people in Birmingham said they were skeptical about the raids, particularly
in light of a similar high-profile operation last year in Forest Gate, east
London, when the police shot and wounded one of two Muslim brothers who were
soon released for lack of evidence linking them to terrorism.

Such events have deepened Muslim anxieties.

''There is a fear about who is next,'' said Mohammed Naseem, the chairman of
Birmingham's Central Mosque, in a telephone interview. ''People will need to
know the facts, but there is a longstanding perception that this climate of
terrorism is being maintained to further the political aims of the government.''

Indeed, Salma Yaqoob, a member of the Birmingham City Council representing the
antiwar Respect Party, said: ''There's a shock and disbelief that these arrests
are being made in such a high-profile manner. People are very concerned about
the social backlash.''

Farooq Haroon, a Birmingham social worker, said that after the raids last year
that ended with the suspects being freed without charge, ''people are very
cynical about these raids.''

The Ministry of Defense said there were only about 330 Muslims out of the
180,000 troops in Britain's armed forces. Last July, one British Muslim soldier,
Lance Cpl. Jabron Hashmi, was killed in Afghanistan.

Many of Britain's frontline combat units are deployed in Afghanistan and Iraq,
and their presence, some Muslim leaders contend, has helped inflame militancy
among young British Muslims.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The British police closed part of a street in Birmingham
yesterday after they raided several homes and arrested nine people on terrorism
charges. (Photo by Darren Staples/Reuters)
 After the raids on homes and businesses in Birmingham, the British police
searched through the garbage behind a shop in the city yesterday. (Photo by Paul
Ellis/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               13 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Neighbors of British Terror Suspects Skeptical of Charges

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1142 words

DATELINE: BIRMINGHAM, England, Feb. 1


Many residents in the area where nine people were arrested and accused of
planning to kidnap, torture and behead a British Muslim soldier said Thursday
that they were unconvinced of the accusations against them.

By most neighborhood accounts, for example, one suspect, Amjad Mahmood, is a
father of two in his late 20s who has worked tirelessly to keep his father's
grocery business going and who has shown no discernible interest in Islamic
affairs.

He is cleanshaven, wears jeans and, like some young men in the Alum Rock section
of this diverse city, seems more secular than religious, people who know him
said. He rarely attended the mosque a block away from his house, they said.

For those reasons, and because of recent instances of the British police
arresting suspects and then releasing them for lack of evidence linking them to
terrorism, people here said they were not convinced of the accusations against
Mr. Mahmood and the other eight suspects. The public and startling nature of the
arrests in predawn raids made them angry and dismayed, they said.

In what the British authorities called a joint operation by the security service
MI5, a newly formed West Midlands counterterrorism team and West Midlands
police, the nine men were arrested in raids in poor, mainly South Asian
neighborhoods of Birmingham, Britain's second-largest city, with one million
people.

Pakistanis, Bangladeshis, Kashmiris and, recently, Somalis dominate the areas
where the men were arrested. Birmingham, where a central area of recent urban
redevelopment contrasts with the poor ethnic areas, is 14.3 percent Muslim,
seventh highest among areas measured in Britain, according to the Office of
National Statistics.

The neighborhoods of Sparkhill and Alum Rock are lined with often run-down but
still neat Victorian-era two-story row houses that show pride with limited
means. Some boast carved stone lintels, and many are decorated with lace-trimmed
white curtains in their front windows.

The police shut and searched the Maktabah al-Ansar Islamic bookstore, a purveyor
of radical Islamic books and tapes. They also closed the Blades Cyber Cafe and
the Khan General Store. The police did not release the names of those arrested.
Newspaper reports here described one of the suspects as the owner of a pizza
shop.

A neighbor of Mr. Mahmood's said it was possible that Mr. Mahmood, whose father
came to Britain from Pakistan, became the ''victim of a bunch of bad lads.''

''He had quite a few Arab friends, that's the only thing, looking back on it,''
said the neighbor, Amad Altaf, 30, a university student.

There seemed to be surprise in the neighborhoods that the supposed plot involved
killing a British Muslim soldier. Indeed, a British Muslim soldier, Lance Cpl.
Jabron Hashmi, 24, was killed in fighting against the Taliban in Afghanistan
last year. Since the arrests, British television has shown pictures of a Lance
Corporal Hashmi, and some newspaper reports said a commemoration of his death
was held last week.

About 330 Muslims serve among the 180,000 members of the British armed forces.
In an effort to increase the proportion, the army has held recruitment drives in
recent years in South Asian neighborhoods, though to little effect, people here
said.

Under British terrorism laws, police can detain suspects for up to 28 days
without bringing formal charges.

Mohammad Khan, a friend of one of the suspects who is a lecturer in the
department of education at the University of Birmingham, said that he had hired
a lawyer for his friend and that the lawyer had visited the suspect in custody
on Thursday. Mr. Khan declined to identify the suspect, saying only that he was
''a very caring person'' who had helped in antidrug programs.

Mr. Khan said the arrests put a spotlight on the lack of government services in
the South Asian neighborhoods.

According to a survey by the Birmingham Voluntary Services Council, the Alum
Rock and Sparkhill neighborhoods ranked highest on the ''inequality index,'' Mr.
Khan said.

The Sparkhill area where the Maktabah bookshop is located had the highest rate
of unemployed university graduates in Birmingham, he said. That meant, he said,
''You jump through all the hoops and you don't go anywhere.''

The Labor government has poured money into religiously based community
organizations since the terrorist bombings in July 2005 that killed 56 people,
including 4 bombers, Mr. Kahn said. But the grants were unevenly distributed if
the goal was to improve livelihoods in mainly poor and Muslim areas, he said.
The grants went to 900 Christian groups, 400 interfaith groups and fewer than
300 Muslim organizations, he said.

''They fund according to old relationships,'' said Mr. Kahn, who was invited by
the American Embassy in London to visit the United States last year as part of a
State Department program on conflict resolution. ''They need to encourage Muslim
organizations that offer something other than representation.''

More effort should be put into promoting scholarships for Muslim youth, and
offering counseling services, he said. There were almost no youth centers in the
areas, he said.

A prototype of what can be done opened recently in the Sparkbrook neighborhood
not far from Alum Rock: a gym for women run by women. Called Saheli Women's
Group Gym -- saheli means ''best friend'' in the Urdu language -- the gym serves
women who had nowhere to go outside their homes, said Naseem Akhtar, its
founder. Many of the women who used the gym were conservative in their Islamic
beliefs, wearing black robes and veils that showed only their eyes, she said.

Until the arrests on Wednesday, Birmingham had escaped the notoriety that has
befallen a number of Muslim areas in Britain since the Sept. 11 attacks in the
United States and the July 2005 bombing in London.

Last year, for example, in dramatic raids conducted by 250 policemen in the
neighborhood of Forest Gate in East London, two Muslim men were arrested on
suspicion of planning a terrorist attack. One was shot and had to be
hospitalized. But both were released after no evidence was found to justify
formal charges.

The chairman of the Birmingham Central Mosque, Mohammed Naseem, said the
attention from the arrests was unwelcome because it was based on what he called
the un-British notion of arresting people on the basis of suspicion.

But Dr. Naseem, 82, an outspoken critic of American foreign policy who
confronted the American ambassador, Robert H. Tuttle, on Iraq during the
ambassador's visit to the mosque last year, said he was concerned about ''Muslim
nationalism.'' This ''Muslim nationalism'' had developed among some of his
constituents since 9/11 and was based ''not on morality, but my nation right or
wrong,'' he said. ''That's the dangerous element, and we're trying to counteract
it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Officers removed computers from the Blades Cyber Cafe in
Birmingham yesterday, part of their investigation into a possible terror plot.
(Photo by Christopher Furlong/Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               14 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 7, 2007 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Edwards's Bloggers Cross the Line, Critic Says

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 398 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6


Two bloggers hired by John Edwards to reach out to liberals in the online world
have landed his presidential campaign in hot water for doing what bloggers do --
expressing their opinions in provocative and often crude language.

The Catholic League, a conservative religious group, is demanding that Mr.
Edwards dismiss the two, Amanda Marcotte of the Pandagon blog site and Melissa
McEwan, who writes on her blog, Shakespeare's Sister, for expressing
anti-Catholic opinions.

Mr. Edwards, a former North Carolina senator, is among the leading Democratic
presidential candidates.

Bill Donohue, president of the Catholic League, said in a statement on Tuesday,
''John Edwards is a decent man who has had his campaign tarnished by two
anti-Catholic vulgar trash-talking bigots.''

Mr. Edwards's spokeswoman, Jennifer Palmieri, said Tuesday night that the
campaign was weighing the fate of the two bloggers.

The two women brought to the Edwards campaign long cyber trails in the
incendiary language of the blogosphere. Other campaigns are likely to face
similar controversies as they try to court voters using the latest techniques of
online communication.

Ms. Marcotte wrote in December that the Roman Catholic Church's opposition to
the use of contraception forced women ''to bear more tithing Catholics.'' In
another posting last year, she used vulgar language to describe the church
doctrine of the Immaculate Conception.

She has also written sarcastically about the news media coverage of the three
Duke lacrosse players accused of sexual assault, saying: ''Can't a few white
boys sexually assault a black woman anymore without people getting all wound up
about it? So unfair.''

Ms. Marcotte joined the Edwards campaign at the end of January in the new post
of blogmaster. She has lived in Austin, Tex., for the past 11 years and wrote on
her blog that she was planning to move to Chapel Hill, N.C., in February to work
full-time on the campaign.

Ms. McEwan referred in her blog to President Bush's ''wingnut Christofascist
base'' and repeatedly used profanity in demanding that religious conservatives
stop meddling with women's reproductive and sexual rights. Multiple postings use
explicit and inflammatory language on a variety of issues.

Ms. McEwan signed on with Mr. Edwards at the end of January with the title of
Netroots coordinator, for campaign activities on the Web.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 10, 2007



CORRECTION: An article on Wednesday about demands by the Catholic League that
the John Edwards presidential campaign fire two women who wrote anti-Catholic
opinions on their personal blogs misstated the Catholic doctrine that one
blogger described using vulgar language. It was the virgin birth of Jesus, not
the Immaculate Conception.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               15 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 7, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Techie's Cyber Odyssey: Magic in Bits and Bolts

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CONNECTIONS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1327 words


I know what Microsoft wants. I know because I have been exploring its new
operating system, Vista, which was released last week after five years of false
starts, persistent bugs and great expectations. I also know because after
spending three weeks building a computer from scratch to test out Vista, piecing
the PC together from parts bought online, I want the same thing. What we want is
to eliminate the PC altogether, to dismantle that box of green circuit boards
and crammed-in wires, to break through even the most glorious flat-screen
monitor and open up a new  vista.

That's why the operating system has its name, of course, and why the screen
images it includes show exotic landscapes with skies lit by sunset or sunrise or
aurora borealis displays. These are not glimpses of hackers' paradises or techie
wonderlands. They are the opposite, showing landscapes beyond technology's
reach, offering not the streaming green cryptograms of ''The Matrix'' but
wilderness vistas free of civilization, promising not ones and zeros but
pristine water and sky. Windows was once thought of as a virtual ''desktop'';
now it opens onto untrammeled nature. Escape from technology through technology.
That, at least, is the fantasy.

Such imagery is important here. Microsoft became a cultural as well as a
technological force because of that kind of imagination. It began with the
dullest and most arcane aspect of computer management: the operating system,
which is little more than a monitoring program in charge of helping other
programs get their work done, guiding them to devices they need, helping them
interact, overseeing the traffic. Microsoft then took the old, serviceable
monochrome PC of the 1980s that could handle only one task at a time, and that
seemed immune from the frivolity of fonts and pictures (which were in Apple's
domain).

And Microsoft began, over years of crashes and controversies, to fashion
something else out of this software and hardware until it could leave those
technological origins behind. Microsoft has been aspiring to transcendence. Its
ambition is to destroy the PC.

That is a noble goal, I think, particularly after my experience of building a
computer: a hobbyist's nightmare, it might have seemed from the piles of boxes
and bubble wrap, the colored cables and seemingly interchangeable pieces of
industrial circuitry, the Medusa-headed power supply with its score of snakelike
wires, the motherboard with its delicate protrusions and fine screws.

I must not be alone in this fascination with handiwork as the origins of
technology, though I completed the project too soon to benefit from the careful
pointers in the newest edition of ''Building the Perfect PC,'' by Robert Bruce
Thompson and Barbara Fritchman Thompson (O'Reilly, 2006). But it didn't matter:
for a while, amid the mess of the material world, I was a human incarnation of
an operating system, selecting the pieces that mattered, binding them together,
determining their placement, testing each one, sending out error messages (and
complaints) to companies that sent faulty parts. I threaded wires through small
holes, carefully fitted miniature plugs onto minuscule prongs, worried over heat
produced by the computer's churning calculations yet to come.

I like the science-fiction writer Arthur C. Clarke's famous dictum that any
sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic. Here,
sufficiently crude technology seemed indistinguishable from carpentry -- or
plumbing. The chip and board designers -- Intel and Nvidia -- were the real
creative forces, determining the logic of this construction. But at a certain
point, when I tried to remove a tiny piece of plastic that fit over two prongs
and move it to another two while squeezing my fingers between two intertwined
cables, the computer's primitiveness became overwhelmingly clear.

Three decades ago, one less powerful would have filled a room, so I didn't lack
appreciation for the technological marvel, but the crudity of the operations
made it seem as if I were striking flint to run an M.R.I. The contemporary PC,
for all its abilities, is like a hand-cranked Model T of what might yet come.

Techne, that's what it was: the Greek activity of craft, of making things.
Hence, technology. But one aspect of contemporary technology is that it almost
eliminates any sense of techne. A half-century ago, hot-rodders could take apart
a car engine and see how it worked, how spark plugs ignited vaporized gasoline
and pushed pistons.

With circuit boards there's no clue. No wonder computers like the one I've made
(and now write with) allow users to play with the voltages and speeds of
components so they can jack up the processing or memory, ''overclock'' the PC
and feel that they have indeed added something to the construction.

But most users dread turning a crank or pulling a spark plug. The real problem
with contemporary technology is not when it hides techne, but when it fails to,
when it forces its users to apply axle grease or dig around in the muck of
detail. That is partly what an operating system is supposed to prevent. It hides
the boggling bookkeeping that is required for each step the computer takes.

How much more astonishing, then, is what Microsoft has accomplished. Apple had
it easy: it kept its PC box closed, maintaining control over the hardware so it
would perfectly suit its software. But Microsoft faced hundreds of thousands of
boards, drives and chips like those I had spread out before me a few weeks ago,
all of differing technological vintages, made by hundreds of companies with
wildly different goals. Microsoft has taken these objects, along with the many
thousands of PC programs now sold, and tried to create a system that would
overlook their dizzying differences, bind them to a coherent vision and force
them, in all their variety, to leave techne behind for the uncharted
possibilities of magic.

No need to point out that in Vista, the ambition is necessarily unfulfilled.
(I've already found problems some techne-minded team at Microsoft should
address, and not every product advertising its Vista-readiness is really ready.)
But the progress is unmistakable, which is why Vista can get away with its
evocation of immateriality; it almost becomes plausible.

Windows don't simply minimize; they sort of glide away as they shrink. The
screen's once staid borders and buttons are given a three-dimensional
glossiness; hints of transparency and glints of reflections make controls and
icons glimmer with light. Microsoft calls the effect Aero, and it manages to be
both ethereal and busy, like much else in this operating system, which -- if the
equipment is powerful enough -- slips rather than snaps into place. Commands are
turned into gesture.

Half magic, let us say, because I've had my problems amid the pleasures. But in
the meantime, under the pressure, the PC too seems to be dissolving around the
edges. Seven years ago, during the Justice Department's antitrust case against
Microsoft, the judicial ''findings of fact'' casually suggested that PCs are not
necessarily used for Internet access; now it is difficult to find a PC that is
not. In fact, the most intrusive aspects of Vista involve its persistent
attempts to protect the computer from intrusion, to prevent violation from that
risky expanse beyond its boundaries.

Internally, borders of the computer have changed as well, making many other
pronouncements in the findings seem naive. The PC is now audio system,
television, video player and game machine, a shape-shifting object that the
operating system must manage and manipulate. It is just as well that we don't
often become aware of how primitivethe computer behind the curtain really is, or
we might start to believe that its achievements really are a form of magic and
not the product of laborious and meticulous techne. Connections, a critic's
perspective on the arts, appears every other week.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A computer, at right, built from scratch by Edward Rothstein,
and a monitor with a wallpaper image from Microsoft Vista. (pg. E1)
 Like cards in a floating deck: A feature of Microsoft Vista allows viewers to
flip through all open windows. (pg. E7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               16 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 8, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

VeriSign Moves to Address an Internet Security Problem

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 7


To keep up with the growing strains put on the Internet by both legitimate users
and online attackers, a Silicon Valley company is undertaking a $100 million
expansion of a crucial part of the system that speeds Web users to their
destinations.

The company, VeriSign, is a leader in networking infrastructure and manages
registration for the .com and .net Internet domains. It is among the stewards of
an international system of computer servers running programs that translate
domain names like google.com or wikipedia.org into numeric addresses.

But the system is under increasing strain because of the explosion of human and
machine Internet users and because of occasional assaults by automated software
programs that threaten to overwhelm the ability to respond to routine requests.

VeriSign executives said their expansion project, to be announced Thursday, was
crucial because of the increasing role that the Internet plays in basic
functions of modern life.

''This isn't just about Web sites anymore, and it's not about online shopping,''
said Ken Silva, VeriSign's chief security officer. ''It's about the way humans
communicate and the way everything is interconnected.''

The potential challenge was underscored on Tuesday when an automated attack
against the domain name system was carried out for several hours by a
distributed computer program known as a botnet.

The attack initially affected all of the 13 root server systems -- the top level
of the hierarchy of interconnected computers -- and then focused for several
hours on servers operated by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and
Numbers, the organization responsible for the Internet address system, and the
Pentagon.

The attack impeded but did not halt any of the systems, according to several of
the operators.

Such attacks make expansion of the name server systems crucial, Mr. Silva said.
The VeriSign project, to be completed by 2010, will offer a tenfold increase in
the capacity of two root servers that the company operates and of the
infrastructure that supports the .com and .net systems.

VeriSign servers, now in 20 regional centers around the world, will be expanded
to 70 sites. The effort would not only improve response time, the company said,
but would also make it possible to diagnose and contain Internet attacks more
quickly.

VeriSign profits indirectly from the growth of Internet traffic from its
business managing the .com and .net domains.

In addition to resisting cyber attacks, the enhancement of the root server
system is made necessary by the rapid growth in new types of Internet devices,
many of which can communicate among themselves without direct human
intervention.

The company said it expected the number of Internet users to grow from one
billion today to 1.8 billion in 2010. Many will reach the Internet with multiple
devices, including cellphones, most of which are expected to be
Internet-enabled.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               17 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 14, 2007 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Taking Advantage of Last-Minute Rentals

BYLINE: By AMY GUNDERSON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; HOME AWAY; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 905 words


Before buying a second home, prospective buyers often test out the area by
visiting and renting. Off-season rentals can be a good opportunity to do so,
since rates are low and availability is often high.

For those willing to brave Montauk, the Berkshires, Cape Cod and country towns
in Upstate New York in the dead of winter, finding a last-minute escape, even
for Valentine's Day or the upcoming Presidents' Day weekend isn't tough.

''February is not typically a popular month for rentals, though I've had a
record number of inquiries,'' said Casey Kait, who rents out her two-bedroom
home set on three bucolic acres in Narrowsburg, N.Y., in Sullivan County.

While swimming and boating on the nearby Delaware River can't be done this time
of year, Ms. Kait said, winter brings a new batch of options to the region --
like skiing and, well, basic relaxation.

This year she is sweetening the deal for Valentine's Day renters by throwing in
a box of chocolate. ''We do try to surprise our renters with little extras now
and then,'' she said, noting that the area offers its own intrinsic romantic
displays. ''There is a pair of eagles that live near the eddy. What could be
more romantic than watching them swoop over the icy Delaware River?''

The Web is a gold mine for tracking down homes that might have last-minute
openings this time of year. Homeowners who handle their own property rentals
often post on Web sites like VRBO (vrbo.com), CyberRentals (cyberrentals.com)
and VacationHomes.com. Those sites maintain availability calendars and provide
rates (though it is up to the owner to keep the site up to date). The sites also
have contact information for owners.

HomeAway.com, which owns several vacation rental by owner Web sites including
Cyber Rentals and VacationVillas.net, has a section for special offers. Many
offer early booking discounts for the spring and summer months, but there are
winter specials.

A five-bedroom farmhouse on the North Fork of Long Island (wine tasting is fun
regardless of the season) goes for $495 a weekend this month, versus $695 in the
spring and the fall. There are other deals in areas with more active tourism in
the spring and summer, like coastal and mountain regions of North Carolina. A
two-bedroom chalet near Murphy, N.C., goes for $70 a night on the weekend,
versus $95 a night in the summer.

VactionHomes.com has a section for last-minute rentals also searchable by
region. A weekend at a Cape Cod house in Truro, Mass., goes for $660 for three
nights in the winter versus $3,200 a week in the prime of summer. The
minimum-stay requirement at a Mashpee, Mass., lakefront house can drop to three
nights from a week in the summer.

And there is plenty to do even in the most snow-packed or wind-whipped
destinations. Paula Dombrow owns a 1835 Greek Revival house in Mill River,
Mass., that she rents out throughout the year, including long winter weekends.
She entices renters to her Berkshire home by accepting pets, the well-behaved
variety preferably, and by slicing up to $50 off her nightly rate of $300 if the
renters are a small group, say a couple with a baby. In the winter she
recommends cross-country skiing, dining at The Old Inn on the Green in nearby
Old New Marlborough, and catching live music at Club Helsinki in Great
Barrington. And if the skies take a turn for the worse, she said, '' I just got
an enormous flat screen TV and DVD player, so it's pretty comfortable if there
is bad weather.''

Of course, just because a town has an off season doesn't mean it's easy to find
a rental there, especially on a holiday weekend.

Mendocino, on the Northern California coast, typically gets hit by storms
rolling in off the Pacific this time of year. But rental homes in the town are
pretty well booked up for the Presidents' Day weekend, with visitors coming in
for whale watching season.

''We only have one left for that weekend and that was because we had a
cancellation,'' said Cindy McCloskey, an agent with Mendocino Preferred, a
vacation rental company. ''We've been booked for two months.''

Conversely, even in areas like Florida and the Caribbean, where winter marks the
high season for vacation rental activity, there are deals to be had for those
who are flexible. In South Florida, bookings are strong and most homeowners
prefer weeklong rental periods, but in Orlando, Clearwater Beach and Tampa,
owners are more likely to accept partial-week stays or even a long weekend, said
Kathy Jones, the Florida representative for WeNeedaVacation.com, a rental Web
site with about 800 homes. ''There is more inventory than ever,'' Ms. Jones
said. ''They just might have to compromise on what they want. A house right on
the beach might not happen.''

Wimco, which acts as the reservation agent for more than 1,200 villas in the
Caribbean, maintains real-time availability on its Web site. Stiles Bennet, the
marketing director for Wimco, encourages last-minute vacationers to search the
site and, ''if they see a hole in the schedule,'' pick up the phone. ''During
peak season the minimum stay is seven days,'' he said. ''That said, if you are
making a last-minute inquiry, tell us what you need.''

Barbados and St. Bart's are well booked this time of year, but homes on St.
Johns and Grand Cayman can still be found, Mr. Bennett said, explaining that
these islands are actually a ''little off the radar'' of the typical Caribbean
villa renter.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Illustration by Nancy Doniger)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               18 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 25, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Future Shock

BYLINE: By Horacio Silva

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Women's Fashion Magazine; The Remix; Pg.
106

LENGTH: 439 words


He's still spacey after all these years. ''We all become angels,'' says Thierry
Mugler, sitting in his New York penthouse, with the conviction of someone who
has seen the future. ''And I relate to space because it helps me realize that
nothing is as important as you first think. There's always something bigger.''

While it's tempting to dismiss him as the Shirley MacLaine of fashion, Mugler
moonwalks it like he talks it and has steadfastly adhered to his fantastical
aesthetic since the early 1970s. Now, seven years after the crash of his label,
the rest of the fashion world has landed on Planet Mugler.

Mugler's PVC-clad intergalactic dominatrixes, who first invaded the runways in
the mid-'80s, re-entered the fashion stratosphere at the spring shows. There
they were at Balenciaga, where robo-babe metallic leggings brought to mind
Mugler's cyber-couture from the early '90s; at Dolce & Gabbana, where dresses
that appeared to have been made from space junk bore a striking similarity to
Mugler's signature hardware; and at Alexander McQueen, where frothy chiffon
confections fit for a prom on Saturn were clones of Mugler's jellyfish gowns at
his farewell couture show in 2000.

Not that Mugler is bitter that the collections of some of the world's leading
designers resembled his brand of otherworldly, hard-edged glamour. ''I feel
validated,'' he says. ''I used to be accused of not liking women, but in truth I
invented a very efficient silhouette, a body-conscious look that was both modern
and very flattering.'' He adds with a smile, ''It didn't hurt that my women
looked like they had sex.''

Although he no longer maintains a design studio, Mugler is laughing all the way
to the banque. Angel, his first fragrance, released in 1992, is one of the most
popular in the United States and Europe, occasionally even outselling Chanel No.
5 in France. (Last year he brought out another successful perfume, called --
naturally -- Alien.)

These days, Mugler, who created the characters and costumes for ''Zumanity''
(the adult-themed Cirque du Soleil show), looks more like a circus strongman
than the churlish club denizen of old. But he has not lost his youthful
enthusiasm and plans to conquer ever-new frontiers. He is working on a capsule
couture collection, which will be sold exclusively at his own boutique in Paris,
opening this fall. Also in the works is a touring fashion sextravaganza to rival
his spectacles of the '90s, and two burlesque revues -- for the Crazy Horse club
in Paris and its sister venue at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas. Expect plenty of
telerobotic pasties in fashion's future.   Horacio Silva

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Save the robots21st-century foxes at the spring shows of
Balenciaga (left) and Dolce & Gabbana. Our favorite MartianFrom left, Thierry
Mugler vacuum-packs Jerry Hall in 1997
Kristen McMenamy in '97
Emma Sjoberg in hard-core biker chic in '92
a power-suited Iman in '91. (Photographs By The Helmut Newton Estate/Maconochie
Photography
Jean-Baptiste Mondino
 Patrice Stable (2). Bottom: Don Ashby (2). )

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               19 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 25, 2007 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Stephen Marley in Tallahassee, M.I.A. in India and Klaxons on Fire

BYLINE: By Sia Michel

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC: PLAYLIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 721 words


Stephen Marley


Some pro bono legal advice for Stephen Marley: The next time an American cop
asks him, ''Are you smoking marijuana?,'' he might not want to proudly answer,
''Yes I am,'' as he recounts in ''The Traffic Jam.'' Mr. Marley, the Jamaican
producer, says this infectious dancehall single was inspired by a stint in a
Tallahassee jail. Granted, he was only locked up for a few hours, back in 2002,
but a son of Bob Marley does not suffer such indignity lightly.

He exacts revenge with a swaggering tale of a roadside police stop. ''Go tell
dem natty dreadlocks no wear handcuff,'' advises Damian Marley, his guest star
and younger brother, who accuses the officers of jealousy. Perhaps it's the
car's plush interior and well-buffed shine? The top-notch tire rims? The
dynastic last name? But Stephen Marley keeps the mood light with a beat-box riff
and a sunny nonsense chorus. Though he started singing with the Melody Makers
when he was 7 (nickname: Ragamuffin), he is known primarily as a Grammy-winning
producer. His impressive solo debut, ''Mind Control'' (Universal), might change
that in late March. And there is plenty more on that brief lockdown. On ''Iron
Bars'' he sings, ''Let me out!/Let me out!'' M.I.A.

In 2005 M.I.A., the Sri Lanka-born, London-raised rapper, released her acclaimed
debut, ''Arular,'' a wildly inventive mash-up of punk, hip-hop, dancehall and
electro. Now she's added South Asian sounds to the mix. Her electrifying new
single, ''Bird Flu,'' was partly recorded in South India, where she also filmed
the video posted on her MySpace page (myspace.com/mia). The track is pure,
surreal rhythm: thunderous dhol drums, poultry squawks and chanting children.
(It may be included on her as-yet-untitled album, due in June on Interscope.)
Last year a ''bird flu dance'' craze swept the Ivory Coast and Jamaica. It
involves imitating a dying chicken, and naturally you can find plenty of
examples on YouTube. In a highlight of M.I.A.'s video, a tiny boy leads a group
of dancing villagers, flapping his arms like wings. Klaxons

Part of the appeal of Klaxons, the British rave-rock band, is the way it fuses
literary pretension with hedonistic weirdness. The video for ''Golden Skans,''
the new single, opens with the aphorism ''There was nothing and in the end there
will be nothing,'' written in silvery letters. After a long shot of outer space
the band materializes in a ball of fire, like a spoof of the Jacksons' ''Can You
Feel It'' clip. The members look naked, and apparently there are no vitamins or
ultraviolet rays in Britain. As they harmonize over catchy, cyber-psychedelic
pop, they smash giant glow sticks with samurai swords. Are they trying to
declare the year-old ''nu-rave'' scene over already, or are they just trying to
build up some biceps? Either way there are still plenty of danceable beats on
Klaxons' thoroughly enjoyable debut album, ''Myths of the Near Future,'' and
nods to William Burroughs, Thomas Pynchon and J. G. Ballard. (The album is out
on iTunes via DGC; the CD arrives March 27). Ed Rec Vol. 2

Ed Banger Records, the French electronic label, specializes in over-the-top
party music, not a surprise, given that it was founded by Daft Punk's manager.
The compilation ''Ed Rec Vol. 2,'' which will be released digitally next week,
is a great introduction to the label's vision. The music flits from disco-punk
to electro to hip-hop house but with a freshly omnivorous sensibility. (There is
also a token American girl, a bratty, foul-mouthed rapper named Uffie.) The
standout track is Justice's ''Phantom,'' a neck-snapping, distorted electro
stomp that rocks as hard as metal. The Parisian duo will release an EP in April.
Wolf & Cub

This Australian stoner-rock quartet takes its name from the Japanese manga and
film series ''Lone Wolf and Cub,'' about a revenge-mad assassin and his toddler
son. The band is therefore required to sound as scary as possible. This means
ominous guitar sludge riffs, two drummers and a sneering vocalist who sings
about ''the stench in here/it smells like fear.'' (See ''Hammond'' on the debut
album, ''Vessels,'' out next week through 4AD.) How is Wolf & Cub different from
its lupus-minded country mate Wolfmother? Well, the music is trippier, with
rhythms you could actually dance to. Slowly and menacingly of course.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 4, 2007



CORRECTION: A picture last Sunday with a review of Stephen Marley's single ''The
Traffic Jam'' in the Playlist column was published in error. Instead of Mr.
Marley, it showed his brother Ky-Mani.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Klaxons, a British rave-rock band. (Photo by Andre Csillag/Rex
USA)
M.I.A.'s electrifying single is ''Bird Flu.'' (Photo by David Titlow)
 Stephen Marley tells a tale of jail in his dancehall single ''The Traffic
Jam.'' (Photo by Jason DeCrow/AP Photo)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               20 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 18, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Future President, On Your Friends List

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1651 words


HAVING already launched a generation of Gwen Stefani clones and death-metal
bands into fleeting Internet fame, MySpace -- the largest social-networking site
-- is now setting its sights higher: to help elect the next president of the
United States.

This week, the site will introduce a section dedicated to politics, with an
emphasis on the 2008 presidential election. Called the Impact channel, it will
be an online version of a town square, a collection of links to political
MySpace pages that will make it easier for the site's 60 million American users
per month -- many of them from the traditionally elusive and apathetic youth
demographic -- to peruse the personal MySpace pages of, so far, 10 presidential
candidates.

The channel will be much like those on the site already devoted to music or
video. By clicking into it and on the separate campaign pages, users will be
able to read candidate's blogs, view their personal videos and snapshots, and
link to other sites that discuss pet issues. Then, theoretically, users will add
their favorite candidates to their friends list, and their friends will add
them, too. The campaigns will spread virally, in the 2008 campaign strategy of
the moment.

Some observers believe that such efforts by MySpace and other social networking
sites might make them influential among voters in 2008. Or, in tech language,
such sites aspire to be the killer aps of this election cycle, reminiscent of
what talk radio (particularly Rush Limbaugh) was in 1994, when it whipped up
enthusiasm for the Republican landslide in the midterm elections, or what
MoveOn.org was in 2004 when it emerged as a potent force to raise funds and drum
up volunteers for the Democratic Party.

''Part of the motivation is seeing how Howard Dean jumped on the blogging trend
in 2003 and established that as a powerful force,'' said Lee Rainie, director of
the Pew Internet & American Life Project. ''A lot of candidates don't want to
miss the boat on what could be the next big thing.''

Mr. Rainie added: ''There's now a sense in the political establishment and the
consultant community that this year feels qualitatively different in the online
world. So rather than being tepid in their embrace of it, they're grasping it in
a bear hug.''

Conversely, while other the social networking sites have welcomed their rising
political profiles, the move by MySpace (which comScore Media Metrix reports has
nearly four times the number of individual users in the United States as
Facebook, its closest rival) is the most notable bid so far to establish a
presence in the 2008 race.

From MySpace's perspective, the move is a way to stay competitive within a
rapidly evolving environment in which both candidates and rival online companies
are making moves to dominate the virtual landscape for the next election.

Not surprisingly, MySpace executives predict that the site, founded in 2003, can
help candidates influence younger swing voters. Some 86 percent of its American
users are voting age, and even younger users are on campaign coordinators'
radar. ''The election is a little less than two years away,'' said Christian
Ferry, the national e-campaign director for John McCain. ''A 16- or 17-year-old
today is going to be eligible to vote in 2008.''

Tom Anderson, 31, a MySpace founder, said, ''MySpace has a method of reaching
people who are historically not interested in voting'' and may not read
newspapers or watch news on television. He added: ''A MySpace profile could
excite their interest in ways they are used to. In the same way they learn about
their friends, they could learn about a candidate.''

The Impact channel will also feature voter registration tools that are intended
to function as a cyber version of the Rock the Vote youth drives of recent
years. And perhaps most enticing to the campaigns, the site will start a
one-click payment function to help contenders solicit campaign contributions.
This online tool will appear on each candidate's official MySpace page, and can
be easily dragged onto a user's own page. And from there it can be dragged to a
user's friend's page, theoretically as easily as MySpace members now swap songs
by their favorite bands, said Mr. Anderson and his fellow founder, Chris
DeWolfe.

In the same fashion, they can drag candidate ads onto their own pages --
''digital yard signs, for lack of a better term,'' Mr. DeWolfe, 41, added.

An official announcement of the Impact channel will be made on Monday, they
said.

Already, campaigns are showing interest in the potential of the site.

''MySpace is definitely one of the tools we'll be using to engage Internet
users,'' said Jen Psaki, a spokeswoman for the Barack Obama campaign, ''and
we're well aware that young people are the ones who are engaging the campaign
through the Internet, more so than other age brackets.''

Besides Mr. Obama, the Democratic contenders John Edwards, Joseph R. Biden and
Dennis J. Kucinich have set up MySpace pages, as have the Republicans Ron Paul,
the Texas congressman, and Mr. McCain. In coming weeks, Hillary Rodham Clinton,
Rudolph W. Giuliani and Mitt Romney will also launch their official MySpace
pages, a MySpace spokeswoman said.

The candidates were moving onto MySpace even without the lure of the Impact
channel, which is expected to be operating Monday.

Several candidates already have pages posted on competitor sites like Facebook,
and many, like Mr. Obama, have campaign staffers aggressively trying to co-opt
social networking concepts, like viral marketing, through their own independent
Web sites.

Mr. Edwards, for example, not only announced his candidacy in December on
YouTube, and has been blogging away on his own site, Facebook and MySpace ever
since. Lately, the former North Carolina senator has even been stumping via
avatars on the virtual reality landscape of Second Life.

In fact, just a few weeks ago, YouTube, which did not exist during the 2004
election cycle, introduced its own campaign-oriented channel on the site,
YouChoose '08.

But the cultural position that MySpace occupies promises to create a curious --
and perhaps potent -- collision of ideologies and stylistic sensibilities. While
Facebook got its start as a means to link Harvard students, and to this day
maintains an exclusive, clubby feel (that's why many loyal users prefer it to
MySpace), MySpace is a colorful, hormone-soaked collage. It has all the
graphical elegance of a wall full of graffiti, and members tend to communicate
in fluent dude-speak.

And now the kids are inviting the adults to the party.

The humorous disconnect has already been noted by Jon Stewart, who last
Wednesday ran a satirical segment on ''The Daily Show'' about a hypothetical
MySpace page for presidential contender Christopher J. Dodd, the Democratic
senator from Connecticut.

That fictional site was decorated in high MySpace fashion, with colorful
unicorn-festooned wallpaper and a highly open friends list that happened to
include Richard Ramirez, the convicted Night Stalker killer. The site included
the classic MySpace incriminating spring-break-style photos, including an
altered one of the senator, in a pinstriped suit, sucking on a beer bong while
bikini-clad collegians cheered on.

''Oh boy, that's not going to be good,'' joked Mr. Stewart, regarding the photo.

So far, the real candidate MySpace pages are considerably less vivid.

The unofficial Hillary Clinton site -- created by a supporter in Seattle but
lauded by her campaign representatives -- portrays less-than-spontaneous
snapshots, like one of the New York senator posing before Niagara Falls in a
gray business suit. In classic MySpace fashion, it lists her ''status''
(married), what she is ''here for'' (networking, friends), and her zodiac sign
(Scorpio).

Like other social networking sites -- which include Facebook, Friendster, Xanga
and Tribe -- membership is free with MySpace.

Anyone, even a future president, can register with the site in minutes, even
come up with a cutesy online moniker. The implicit goal for most members is to
reach out to as many people as possible and add them to their Friend Space --
which in politics is known as a candidate's base. Friends, who are added by
permission only, often do not meet offline, but do readily swap links to
favorite songs, videos, jokes and photos.

This is the much-lauded viral nature of the medium that has managers of
presidential campaigns intrigued. In fact, it has already started to yield
dividends, according to Peter Daou, the Internet director for the Clinton
campaign, even weeks before the senator unveils her official MySpace home page,
which will include an empowerment theme aimed at girls and young women called
''I Can Be President.''

Mr. Daou pointed out that Mrs. Clinton already has spread her message to more
than 25,000 ''friends'' on her unofficial MySpace page. (Mr. Obama has more than
64,000 on his official site.)

Arguably, the push into presidential politics may buy MySpace a bit more time to
be relevant in a landscape where every technology seems moments away from
obsolescence.

Already, critics like Michael Hirschorn, in the current issue of The Atlantic
Monthly, are pondering what happens when MySpace becomes just another place to
find blogging and video upload capability. ''Thanks to the inexorable process of
Web innovation,'' Mr. Hirschorn wrote, ''such stuff goes from 'OMG' to
'whatever' in no time flat.''

The same could be true for the sudden ascendance of social networking in the
political process as well, observers said.

''Right now, social networking and YouTube are the two most striking things
about this election cycle that make it different from 2004 -- so far,'' said Mr.
Rainie from the Pew Project.

''That could change,'' he said. ''In 10 months, we could be talking about Second
Life or text-messaging as 'the next big thing.' ''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: CLICK THE VOTE -- A prototype of the Impact channel, going live
this week. (Photo by MySpace.com)(pg. 8)
 (pg. 1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               21 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 22, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Hackers, Brackets Present A Challenge of a Different Kind

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WEINREB

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; N.C.A.A. TOURNAMENT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 886 words


The N.C.A.A. men's basketball tournament has evolved into a popular online
experience in the United States, a ritual of 63 games played over two and a half
weeks with millions of fans logging on to their computers -- often at work -- to
check scores and the status of their brackets and to watch streaming video of
the games.

Because the tournament and other major sporting events draw so many people to
the Web, they have become targets for computer hackers seeking high-profile
hits.

''All of this doesn't occur in the United States, but we have seen a trend
toward attacks during major sporting events,'' said Donna Peterson, a
supervisory special agent for the F.B.I.'s cyber division.

That includes the Super Bowl last month at Dolphin Stadium in Miami. Leading up
to the game, when traffic at the stadium's official Web site was up 300 percent,
a hacker installed malicious code on the site, potentially infecting the
computers of thousands of visitors with keystroke-logging software.

Websense, an unaffiliated Web security firm, said it discovered the attack and
reported it to Dolphin Stadium officials, who contacted the F.B.I. Peterson said
the investigation is ongoing.

The Super Bowl incident was not the first time hackers took aim at a sporting
event. Websense officials said that last summer, a Web site disguising itself to
look like an official World Cup site installed malicious code on visitors'
computers.

''It's the demographic,'' said Robert Hansen, a Web security expert who runs a
popular hacking message board that is frequented by researchers, developers and
hackers. ''What sporting events represent are people who are not particularly
experts, who don't know what an exploit is, and don't have firewalls or
anti-virus software.

''You're going after the stockbroker who just wants to see what's going on with
his teams.''

Peterson said the F.B.I.'s cyber division had proposed that an evaluation of
information technology be part of the routine threat assessment before a major
sporting event.

Hackers have rarely been successful infiltrating an official Web site for a
major sporting event; instead, they have often relied on using spam e-mail
messages to lure people to sites that will infect their computers.

Most Web site operators are reluctant to discuss the issue extensively for fear
of baiting hackers, who might interpret their comments as a challenge.

''Anybody who becomes a target can get hacked,'' said Avi Rubin, a professor of
computer science at Johns Hopkins University and the president of a firm that
specializes in Web security. ''What you don't want is to be in the sights of
someone powerful who might come after you and bring you down.''

Zulfikar Ramzan, senior principal researcher for Symantec Security Response,
said, ''I will say don't goad them because some of these guys are aren't nice
people.''

CBS Sportsline is the official site for the N.C.A.A. tournament and also
operates NCAASports.com. Officials said they were expecting tens of millions of
hits during the tournament for its video-on-demand service, but they declined to
comment on the issue of security. Officials at I.B.M., which runs the official
Web sites for the Masters and the Grand Slam tennis events, also declined to
comment on the issue.

''We deal proactively with the issue of security day in and day out, all year,''
Paul Melvin, a spokesman for ESPN.com, said in an e-mail message. ''Efforts by
hackers are always getting more and more sophisticated, so we have to also be
sophisticated in our approach.''

Marc Frons, chief technology officer for The New York Times digital operation,
said: ''News sites are targets for all sorts of malicious mischief, but we've
always had a very strong security model in place.''

Hackers in the past attacked for mainly personal glorification, said Ira
Winkler, vice president for the Information Systems Security Association and the
author of several books about the subject. ''It was pointless,'' he said.

But now, Web security experts said they were seeing elements of organized crime,
with hackers seeking financial gain.

''That's really been the trend over the past couple of years -- the level of
professionalism and sophistication in these attacks has gone up,'' Ramzan said.
''You're going to have tons of hits during March Madness, and some of these
sites are rich in content. If somebody breaks their ankle on the basketball
court, that'll be a pretty popular video. The combination of all these things
makes them a pretty popular target.''

Once they acquire information, Ramzan said, there is ''an underground supply
chain'' where hackers can sell and trade in such things.

Most experts agreed simple steps could prevent most attacks. Users can protect
themselves by making sure their browsers have been updated and include the most
recent security patches. Web sites can prevent attacks, Ramzan said, by turning
off defaulted accounts and those with unsophisticated passwords that hackers
could easily guess.

And beyond educating employees, companies can make sure that their servers are
not running extraneous software or programs that might be vulnerable to hackers,
Winkler said.

''The big thing people need to realize,'' he said, ''is that you have to take
responsibility for what you can take responsibility for.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               22 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 10, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

With New Agency, Sony Tries to Focus Its Electronics Image

BYLINE: By PATRICIA WINTERS LAURO

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1124 words


SONY ELECTRONICS, whose account has bounced around a bit among agencies over the
last two years, is stepping forward with its first big campaign from one of its
new agencies of record, BBDO Worldwide.

The $20 million campaign -- which includes television, radio, outdoor and print,
plus online promotions and a tie-in with the coming Sony Pictures movie
''Spider-Man 3'' -- tries to emphasize the easy-to-use, high-tech features of
Sony's camcorders and digital cameras.

The ads depict humorous family situations, but the messages are about how Sony
products can solve age-old photography problems like blurriness and shakiness.

One television commercial for the Cyber-shot digital camera shows scenes of
family members who seem to be chatting with a horse's hindquarters and calling
it ''dad.'' The scene jumps to a blurry photograph of the father standing next
to the horse rump, and explains that the camera's antiblur and face detection
technology can automatically focus on the faces in a picture ''because,'' as a
voice-over says, ''the face makes the photo.''

In another spot -- this one for the Handycam high-definition camcorder -- a
graying couple is seen cooing and giggling over their adult son whom they are
bathing in the kitchen sink. The message that comes on the screen is: ''You
can't recreate special moments. Get them right the first time.''

The new Sony campaign started running on network television last week. One goal,
said Bill Bruce, chairman and chief creative officer of BBDO New York, is to
show the public that Sony is making the same kind of technological advances in
high-definition as, say, Apple is making in music.

''Sony is doing amazing things,'' Mr. Bruce said. ''They are at the forefront of
high-definition video and audio, and they need to do equally impressive
messaging.''

Picture-perfect moments may be ephemeral, but Sony Electronics has itself taken
a few shots at trying to select agencies whose work is lasting. In early 2005,
Sony withdrew its account from Y&R, a division of the WPP Group, in a move that
was seen as a major blow for the agency and that helped precipitate a change in
leadership there.

Sony Electronics then moved its work to three agencies: Bagby & Company in
Chicago; McKinney & Silver in Durham, N.C., owned by Havas; and Fallon Worldwide
in Minneapolis, a unit of the Publicis Groupe. Sony split with Fallon in
November 2005, after only five months.

Last year, Sony moved its estimated $100 million consumer electronics business
to BBDO and 180, which are both part of the Omnicom Group. At the time that Sony
selected the two agencies, 180, of Amsterdam, was independent. Omnicom has since
taken a majority stake in it, and 180 has opened an office in Los Angeles
specifically to work on the Sony Electronics account.

While the game of musical agencies may have contributed to awareness problems
for Sony Electronics, the San Diego-based unit of the Sony Corporation of
America, the Sony brand name has lately suffered problems that go beyond a
particular unit, said David Martin, United States president of Interbrand in New
York, a brand consultancy.

Sony has dropped to 26th place in his company's annual brand rankings, from 18th
in 2000, not because of its advertising but because of competition from consumer
electronics companies like Samsung, Mr. Martin said. Samsung surpassed Sony in
Interbrand's rankings, he said.

In creating the campaign for Sony Electronics, BBDO decided to play up the
message that the company had new technology to sell, like the face-detection
system in the Cyber-shot cameras, BBDO executives said. Each advertisement
focuses on a key product benefit.

David Lubars, BBDO North America's chairman and chief creative officer, said the
humorous quality of the ads was meant to make the brand feel more accessible.
''They make products that delight people, that are fun and entertaining, and
their communications should reflect that humanness,'' he said.

For Sony Electronics, the campaign is the first under the direction of Stuart
Redsun, senior vice president of corporate marketing who joined the company last
June from Helio, a maker of wireless hand-held devices, where he was executive
vice president for marketing.

At Sony Electronics, he is responsible for designing a brand strategy for
specific product lines, including Vaio computers, Bravia televisions, Cyber-shot
cameras and Handycam high-definition camcorders. He reports to the chief
marketing officer, Michael Fasulo.

Mr. Redsun said the BBDO campaign was a prototype of future ones that would
promote individual products but speak with one voice and make the Sony brand the
centerpiece. Sony's consumer research showed that consumers had great passion
for Sony but that the brand was not making an emotional connection, he said.

''We have such passion from consumers for our brand and product, but we haven't
been known for creating those emotional ties for those brands,'' Mr. Redsun
said.

The current campaign is timed to the spring and summer seasons when Americans
are vacationing, barbecuing and celebrating holidays like Father's Day.

''This is first of many things you'll see coming from us where we will take
windows when consumers are buying, and create a big Sony story with Sony as
hero,'' Mr. Redsun said.

In digital cameras, Sony is battling Kodak and Canon for market share, said Ross
Rubin, director for industry analysis at the NPD Group, a market research firm.
Meanwhile, camera prices from the top of the market (over $500) to the low end
(under $100) are dropping along with the cost of digital components, Mr. Rubin
said. About 31 million digital cameras were sold in 2006, up from 25.5 million
in 2005, NPD said.

The camcorder market is also growing -- to 3.2 million units last year, from 3
million in 2005 -- as consumers move from tape-based to disc-based camcorders,
Mr. Rubin said. Sony is by far the market leader in camcorders, with a 38
percent share of units sold, followed by Canon with 13 percent and JVC and
Panasonic with 12 percent each.

Mr. Martin of Interbrand said he doubted whether an ad campaign could have a big
impact on Sony. Traditional ads have grown less effective in the consumer
electronics sector, where consumers often base decisions on objective product
reviews and Web critiques.

''The game in consumer electronics is much more new marketing techniques, and
buzz marketing and traditional public relations to get those third-party
endorsements,'' Mr. Martin said.

The ads from Sony Electronics could encourage more people to consider the brand,
but, he said, they had better be impressed by what they find. ''Unless the
products walk the talk, that could be a real risk,'' Mr. Martin said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A print ad emphasizing the need for a reliable camcorder.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               23 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 13, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Surveillance and Subterfuge in Corporate Shadows

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM
REVIEW; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 867 words


In the sleek, paranoid world of ''Perfect Stranger,'' the Internet and the ugly
side of human nature converge to evoke a treacherous corporate climate of
multiple identities, high-tech spying, obsessive prurience, blackmail and
murder. Communication is carried on under assumed names in e-mail messages,
instant messages and coded cellphone texts. Every character is an unscrupulous
go-getter with a cache of guilty secrets to protect.

There is enough of a grain of truth in this noirish thriller, directed by James
Foley from a screenplay by Todd Komarnicki, that even after it lurches from the
far-fetched into the preposterous, ''Perfect Stranger'' leaves a clammy residue
of unease. Although set in the corridors of New York media giants, it often
feels like a Hollywood fever dream responding to the wave of scandals and
cover-ups coming out of Washington. To the movie's ruthless power brokers and
climbers, the most precious human commodity is loyalty, the ability to keep a
dirty secret under wraps. But loyalty has its price.

Halle Berry, not the warmest actress, is the putative heroine, Rowena Price, a
star investigative reporter for a rag called The New York Courier. Rowena, who
dishes out sensational exposes under a male pseudonym, doesn't resemble any
journalist I've ever met. As she slithers through the movie's chilly upscale
jungle, her only ethical principle seems to be that in the pursuit of dirt, the
ends always justify the means.

In the film's creepy opening scene, she visits a married congressman with
gubernatorial aspirations under friendly pretenses and confronts him with
evidence of his sexual relationship with a male intern. When he offers her
''anything you want'' not to print the revelation, she refuses. But he pulls
strings with her bosses and gets his way, and Rowena quits in a huff.

An encounter in the subway with a childhood friend, Grace (Nicki Aycox), leads
Rowena to her next sleuthing expedition. Not long after their meeting, Grace is
found dead, the victim of poisoning. Rowena suspects that the killer is Harrison
Hill (Bruce Willis), a married, compulsively philandering advertising mogul whom
Grace had stalked relentlessly after he ended their affair.

Enlisting her journalistic sidekick Miles Haley (Giovanni Ribisi), a ratty cyber
-wizard who can hack his way through any firewall, she initiates a seductive
cat-and-mouse game with Harrison in which she assumes two identities. She
becomes both Katherine Pogue, an office temp who takes a job at Harrison's
agency, catches his roving eye and begins a dangerous flirtation, and Veronica,
who rubs libidos with Harrison in a chat room where he bombards her with the
usual coy questions about lingerie. (The movie has blatant and extended product
plugs for Victoria's Secret and Reebok.)

Before long Katherine and Harrison are in a chic restaurant, sipping the movie's
cocktail of choice, a ''Hemingway daiquiri,'' and he is nuzzling her neck.
Harrison and Veronica also arrange an assignation in a downtown hotel. None of
it makes much sense. Although the movie pretends otherwise, the supposed
evidence that Rowena compiles against Harrison is flimsy at best.

Nor is Ms. Berry able to untangle her character's personalities, one of which
emerges in a ludicrous bombshell revelation in the movie's final scene. Ms.
Berry, as always, looks great but fails to project the innate sensuality you
expect to accompany such beauty. Tense and snippy, she conveys the wary
insecurity of an actress who is unaware of her charms and overcompensates by
trying too hard to act.

Mr. Willis strolls through the role of a smirking cobra with the blithe
detachment of an actor who knows that when playing a master of the universe,
less is more. All that's required is the narrowing of his eyes, then sweeping
the room with a cunning gaze. Only once does Harrison blow his cool, in a scene
in which he fires and replaces a disloyal employee in a violent 30-second
explosion.

Mr. Ribisi's Miles appears to be a devoted puppy until the moment we observe him
hiding in a dark corner of Rowena's apartment while she makes love with her
boyfriend, Cameron (Gary Dourdan), a character so cursory that he barely exists.

The director, as he showed in movies like ''After Dark, My Sweet,'' and
''Fear,'' specializes in conjuring conspiratorial atmospheres in which anxiety
and sexual menace hang in the air like a heavy, bitter perfume. Long after
you've dismissed the movie's ridiculous, convoluted story, traces of that scent
may linger.

''Perfect Stranger'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult
guardian). It has sexual situations, some nudity, violence and strong language.
Perfect Stranger Opens today nationwide.   Directed by James Foley; written by
Todd Komarnicki, based on a story by Jon Bokenkamp; director of photography,
Anastas Michos; edited by Christopher Tellefsen; music by Antonio Pinto;
production designer, Bill Groom; produced by Elaine Goldsmith-Thomas; released
by Columbia Pictures and Revolution Studios. Running time: 109 minutes.   WITH:
Halle Berry (Rowena Price), Bruce Willis (Harrison Hill), Giovanni Ribisi (Miles
Haley) and Gary Dourdan (Cameron).

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bruce Willis is a smooth advertising titan and Halle Berry is an
undercover investigative reporter in James Foley's noir ''Perfect Stranger.''
(Photo by Barry Wetcher/Columbia Pictures)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               24 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        April 13, 2007 Friday 00:00 EST

Surveillance and Subterfuge in Corporate Shadows;
Movie Review | 'Perfect Stranger'

BYLINE: STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: MOVIES

LENGTH: 900 words



HIGHLIGHT: Even after it lurches from the far-fetched into the preposterous,
"Perfect Stranger" leaves a clammy residue of unease.


In the sleek, paranoid world of "Perfect Stranger," the Internet and the ugly
side of human nature converge to evoke a treacherous corporate climate of
multiple identities, high-tech spying, obsessive prurience, blackmail and
murder. Communication is carried on under assumed names in e-mail messages,
instant messages and coded cellphone texts. Every character is an unscrupulous
go-getter with a cache of guilty secrets to protect.

There is enough of a grain of truth in this noirish thriller, directed by James
Foley from a screenplay by Todd Komarnicki, that even after it lurches from the
far-fetched into the preposterous, "Perfect Stranger" leaves a clammy residue of
unease. Although set in the corridors of New York media giants, it often feels
like a Hollywood fever dream responding to the wave of scandals and cover-ups
coming out of Washington. To the movie's ruthless power brokers and climbers,
the most precious human commodity is loyalty, the ability to keep a dirty secret
under wraps. But loyalty has its price.

Halle Berry, not the warmest actress, is the putative heroine, Rowena Price, a
star investigative reporter for a rag called The New York Courier. Rowena, who
dishes out sensational exposés under a male pseudonym, doesn't resemble any
journalist I've ever met. As she slithers through the movie's chilly upscale
jungle, her only ethical principle seems to be that in the pursuit of dirt, the
ends always justify the means.

In the film's creepy opening scene, she visits a married congressman with
gubernatorial aspirations under friendly pretenses and confronts him with
evidence of his sexual relationship with a male intern. When he offers her
"anything you want" not to print the revelation, she refuses. But he pulls
strings with her bosses and gets his way, and Rowena quits in a huff.

An encounter in the subway with a childhood friend, Grace (Nicki Aycox), leads
Rowena to her next sleuthing expedition. Not long after their meeting, Grace is
found dead, the victim of poisoning. Rowena suspects that the killer is Harrison
Hill (Bruce Willis), a married, compulsively philandering advertising mogul whom
Grace had stalked relentlessly after he ended their affair.

Enlisting her journalistic sidekick  Miles Haley (Giovanni Ribisi), a ratty
cyber-wizard who can hack his way through any firewall, she initiates a
seductive cat-and-mouse game with Harrison in which she assumes two identities.
She becomes both Katherine Pogue, an office temp who takes a job at Harrison's
agency, catches his roving eye and begins a dangerous flirtation, and Veronica,
who rubs libidos with Harrison in a chat room where he bombards her with the
usual coy questions about lingerie. (The movie has blatant and extended product
plugs for Victoria's Secret and Reebok.)

Before long Katherine and Harrison are in a chic restaurant, sipping the movie's
cocktail of choice, a "Hemingway daiquiri," and he is nuzzling her neck.
Harrison and Veronica also arrange an assignation in a downtown hotel. None of
it makes much sense. Although the movie pretends otherwise, the supposed
evidence that Rowena compiles against Harrison is flimsy at best.

Nor is Ms. Berry able to untangle her character's personalities, one of which
emerges in a ludicrous bombshell revelation in the movie's final scene. Ms.
Berry, as always, looks great but fails to project the innate sensuality you
expect to accompany such beauty. Tense and snippy, she conveys the wary
insecurity of an actress who is unaware of her charms and overcompensates by
trying too hard to act.

Mr. Willis strolls through the role of a smirking cobra with the blithe
detachment of an actor who knows that when playing a master of the universe,
less is more. All that's required is the narrowing of his eyes, then sweeping
the room with a cunning gaze. Only once does Harrison blow his cool, in a scene
in which he fires and replaces a disloyal employee in a violent 30-second
explosion.

Mr. Ribisi's Miles appears to be a devoted puppy until the moment we observe him
hiding in a dark corner of Rowena's apartment while she makes love with her
boyfriend, Cameron (Gary Dourdan), a character so cursory that he barely exists.

The director, as he showed in movies like "After Dark, My Sweet," and "Fear,"
specializes in conjuring conspiratorial atmospheres in which anxiety and sexual
menace hang in the air like a heavy, bitter perfume. Long after you've dismissed
the movie's ridiculous, convoluted story, traces of that scent may linger.

"Perfect Stranger" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult
guardian). It has sexual situations, some nudity, violence and strong language.

PERFECT STRANGER

Opens today nationwide.

Directed by James Foley; written by Todd Komarnicki, based on a story by Jon
Bokenkamp; director of photography, Anastas Michos; edited by Christopher
Tellefsen; music by Antonio Pinto; production designer, Bill Groom; produced by
Elaine Goldsmith-Thomas; released by Columbia Pictures and Revolution Studios.
Running time: 109 minutes.

WITH: Halle Berry (Rowena Price), Bruce Willis (Harrison Hill), Giovanni Ribisi
(Miles Haley) and Gary Dourdan (Cameron).

Bruce Willis is a smooth advertising titan, and Halle Berry is an undercover
investigative reporter in James Foley's noir "Perfect Stranger." Barry
Wetcher/Columbia Pictures

A fierce world where  loyalties and identities are in constant flux.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2007 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Requiem for a Club: Saxophone and Sighs

BYLINE: By NATE CHINEN

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1058 words


There was plenty of exuberant noise at Tonic on Friday night: shrieking horns,
fuzzed-out guitars, the jackhammer thump of a bass drum. It could almost have
passed for a typical night at the club: two sets of improvisation organized by
the saxophonist John Zorn and an installment of the Bunker, a techno party
hosted by Bryan Kasenic, a k a DJ Spinoza.

But Friday was the final night at Tonic, a hub and hangout for avant-garde
musicians, a constituency with few reliable resources. For them the club's
eviction, because of rent arrears, has hit hard. ''It's a disaster,'' said
Stephanie Stone, a concertgoer who has frequented Tonic since Mr. Zorn's first
event there nine years ago, a few months after the club opened.

Back then Tonic was an outpost, situated on a stretch of Norfolk Street on the
Lower East Side that might charitably have been described as rugged and obscure.
Formerly a kosher winery, the space had attracted the attention of Melissa
Caruso and John Scott, proprietors of Alt Coffee, a cyber cafe on Avenue A.
Together with the accordionist Ted Reichman they had been presenting
experimental music at Alt Coffee regularly. Tonic was an entrepreneurial
expansion, with costs cheap enough to support the risk.

Now high-rise condominiums tower over the space on either side, an apt
illustration of the squeeze of gentrification. In some respects it is surprising
that Tonic survived as long as it did. Facing similar rent pressures, numerous
clubs have shut down in recent months, notably CBGB and Sin-e. (Alt Coffee
closed last week too.)

''Our rent has doubled since we opened, and business has not doubled,'' said Ms.
Caruso, who is now married to Mr. Scott. ''We've always struggled in that
building,'' she said. ''Whether it's flooding or a complete disaster with our
plumbing system, it just seems that we're hit with something every couple of
years that's a huge expense.'' In the most recent setback Subtonic, the club's
basement lounge, was shut down by the city for permit violations.

It was fitting that Mr. Zorn presided over Tonic's swan song: his initial
two-month stretch of programming in 1998 was what put the club on the map. His
two sets on Friday night were a succession of ad hoc instrumental lineups. Some
-- like a trio consisting of the saxophonist Marty Ehrlich, the pianist Anthony
Coleman and the drummer Gerry Hemingway -- delivered the glorious dissonance of
top-grade free jazz.

Other performances were less idiomatic, but had a common denominator of tonal
friction and dynamic variation. Among the dozens of artists in rotation were the
keyboardist Annie Gosfield, the pianists Sylvie Courvoisier and Vijay Iyer, the
clarinetists Ned Rothenberg and Chris Speed, and the guitarists Elliot Sharp and
Marc Ribot. All of them found a home in Tonic, to one degree or another, over
the years.

Of course so have many artists outside the orbit of improvised music. ''You
would be able to go to three different shows in a week and have three completely
different musical experiences,'' said Daniel Blumin, the former host of a
popular WNYC radio show, who was standing outside the club with Drew Daniel of
the experimental electronic duo Matmos.

Mr. Daniel, who has performed at Tonic, agreed. ''There would be pin-drop-silent
things that were very sparse, and then raucous hellish stuff,'' he said. ''The
only thing they really had in common was a commitment to a kind of integrity.''

Along with Mr. Blumin, Mr. Daniel was waiting for DJ Spinoza's shift, which
stretched well into the morning hours. (On Friday the Bunker will set up shop in
Williamsburg, Brooklyn, at the Luna Lounge, a club that was priced out of the
Lower East Side two years ago.)

The club's increasing proportion of indie-rock and pop shows had alienated some
musicians in recent years. ''For the immediate community of players that I work
with,'' Mr. Reichman said on Friday afternoon, ''this loss is reflecting a
change that happened a while ago.'' Yet Mr. Reichman was quick to credit Tonic
with being the only centralized haven for the avant-garde jazz and
improvised-music crowd.

''When the Knitting Factory went corporate rock, Tonic filled the void,'' Mr.
Speed said between Friday's two sets. There are other sympathetic places in the
city, he added, like Barbes and Issue Project Room in Brooklyn and the Stone in
Manhattan, a nonprofit space opened by Mr. Zorn in 2005. But none have Tonic's
size (capacity 180) or the sociable environment sustained by Mr. Scott and Ms.
Caruso, who took in Friday's festivities with their one-month-old baby, Addison,
in tow.

The indignation surrounding the club's closure was best illustrated by the
demonstration held on Saturday at Tonic by an activist group called Take It to
the Bridge, led in part by Mr. Ribot, the guitarist. Lasting from 11 a.m. till
shortly before 5 p.m., it culminated in two brief arrests.

In an interview that morning Mr. Ribot said the purpose of the demonstration was
not to save Tonic, but to expose the need for city financing for experimental
music. ''New music serves as research and development for a much larger music
scene,'' he said. ''It has a cultural and economic weight beyond its immediate
audience.''

Moments later Mr. Ribot was playing a solo acoustic rendition of ''Cold, Cold
Heart,'' as a worker on a ladder beside him wrestled with one of the club's
hanging speakers. During the afternoon a number of musicians took the stage,
including Mr. Rothenberg, the pianist Matthew Shipp and the conductor Butch
Morris. Patricia Nicholson, the founder of the Vision Festival, which will
present several of Tonic's previously scheduled shows this week in a
neighborhood gallery (information at visionfestival.org), served as a de facto
stage manager.

By 4:30 most of the club's equipment had been carted out, and the room was empty
of patrons. A smattering of police officers stood watch as Mr. Ribot played
''The Nearness of You'' (a wry dedication to the officers, perhaps).

Then there was an announcement that any lingerers would be guilty of
trespassing. ''I wouldn't say that we want to get arrested, but we will not
leave,'' Mr. Ribot replied. Along with Rebecca Moore, another Take It to the
Bridge organizer, he was handcuffed and led outside to a squad car. Across the
street a gathering of supporters let out a cheer.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 18, 2007



CORRECTION: An article in The Arts on Monday about the final night of the Lower
East Side club Tonic misidentified the radio station where Daniel Blumin, who
spoke about his experiences at the club, was once host of a show. It was WNYU,
not WNYC.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tonic, top, a hub for avant-garde musicians. Programming by
John Zorn, above left, put Tonic on the map
 the doorman, Bear, right. (Photographs by Michael Falco for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               26 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 22, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fish Story

BYLINE: By TOM SHONE.

Tom Shone is the author of ''Blockbuster: How Hollywood Learned to Stop Worrying
and Love the Summer.''

SECTION: Section 7; Column 5; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 589 words


The Raw Shark Texts

By Steven Hall.

428 pp. Canongate. $24.

Amnesia plots are a gift to first-time writers; what better way to face down
your fear of the empty white page than conjuring a hero whose life is also a
complete blank? In Steven Hall's first novel, ''The Raw Shark Texts,'' a man
wakes one morning to find himself with no idea of who or where he is; outside
his window lurks a brave new world, unpopulated save for a few random souls
whose job it is to deliver dollops of plot exposition before whisking themselves
away again. Thus is the first requirement of the Amnesiac genre fulfilled -- the
one that dictates that a man who is piecing together his life receive only the
scantiest help in doing so. It would never do to have some kind soul simply tell
him what the hell is going on.

His driver's license informs him his name is Eric Sanderson; a letter says to
visit one Dr. Randle, who tells Eric that a few years back he lost his
girlfriend in Greece, that ever since he has been plagued by memory blackouts --
this is his 11th -- and that whatever else, he must not open any letters he
finds from his old self. Naturally he returns home and reads a letter from his
old self. It tells him not to trust Dr. Randle, and deposits a series of cryptic
clues in his lap. Eric is just getting into one of these -- an hourlong
videotape of a light bulb flicking on and off -- when a ''violent something''
lurches out of the TV and attacks his sofa, leaving him ''bobbing and floating
and trying to tread water in the idea of the floor, in fluid liquid concept, in
its endless cold rolling waves of association and history.'' I hate it when that
happens. Eric has just survived an attack by a Ludovician, a ''species of purely
conceptual fish'' that feeds on human memory, against which his only defense is
to set up a ''nondivergent conceptual loop'' -- to wit, an arrangement of
Dictaphones relaying a constant ambient noise between them. In short, to
survive, he must turn himself into a walking Brian Eno concert.

By which point readers will have observed that Hall is not going for the Dirty
Realist of the Year award. His shout-outs instead go to Paul Auster, Haruki
Marukami, the ''Matrix'' movies, ''Memento'' and, peering back into the distant
mists of time, ''Jaws.'' Together with a young geek sex object with black bob
and green eyes named Scout, and an academic named Dr. Trey Fidorous, he forms a
threesome that faces off against the shark in an old, water-logged boat that is
''the current collective idea of what a shark hunting boat should be.'' This is
one way of admitting to your sources, I suppose -- ''Jaws'' by way of Jung --
although I couldn't stop wondering how much help a theoretical boat was going to
be. Then I remembered they were only fighting a conceptual shark to begin with,
at which point I went off to make myself a cup of tea.

How all this will read in 20 years, or even two, is hard to say, although one
suspects that what seemed so vertiginously modern will ultimately seem like so
much cyber-age psychedelia -- as depthless and woozy as paisley-patterned
shirts. Hollywood, needless to say, has taken the bait; the book was a big hit
at the most recent London book fair, and the movie rights were fiercely
contested and finally sold for a sum in the mid- to high six figures. But I
would advise producers to tread cautiously: we could be in for a replay of ''The
Beach,'' by Alex Garland. Novels so in hock to the movies have a habit of
evaporating by the time they get to the screen.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lenny Naar)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               27 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 23, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

PC Games, Once Down, Show Signs Of Rebound

BYLINE: By MICHEL MARRIOTT

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1346 words


Navigating the aisles of a GameStop video game store in Midtown Manhattan,
Bennett Kirschner passed by the latest titles for consoles like Microsoft's Xbox
360, Sony's PlayStation 2 and 3, and Nintendo's runaway hit, the Wii -- all lit
and displayed like best-selling novels.

Instead, from a less ostentatious corner in the basement, he selected a $40 game
that would play more than reasonably well on his three-year-old Dell personal
computer. The game is Civilization IV, part of a series of strategy games in
which a player, like a god, develops a stone-age culture into a modern one.

''When I was a kid, I used to like Nintendo and used to play on consoles,'' said
Mr. Kirschner, a 28-year-old lawyer. ''But right now I don't have the time or
money to invest in a $400 console and $50 in a game.''

Like other gamers drawn to the PC, however, he said the attraction went beyond
convenience and cost. He said computer games seem more sophisticated than
console games and offer a greater sense of accomplishment. ''It's not just
killing unlimited enemies on a screen,'' he said.

Not so long ago, PC titles were the mainstay of video gaming, but they have
slumped in recent years, overshadowed by a new generation of game consoles. Now
they are showing signs of a comeback.

Most prominent has been the strength of one of the most popular video games ever
for PCs, World of Warcraft, a role-playing online adventure game that now has
more than eight million subscribers.

But retail sales of other titles are on the rebound as well. PC manufacturers
and chipmakers are promoting the game-playing prowess of ever more powerful
computers. And Microsoft has inaugurated a program aimed at making PC gaming
more attractive, incorporating console-like features and easier online play.

There is also considerable buzz about Enemy Territory: Quake Wars, a
long-awaited game due in June from id Software, the creator of the blockbuster
hits Doom and Quake in the 1990s.

Anita Frazier, an industry analyst for the NPD Group, a market research firm,
noted that in the first two months of 2007, domestic retail sales of PC games
reached $203 million, a 48 percent increase over the $136.8 million in the
period a year earlier. She noted that these figures do not include revenue
generated by PC game sales online, or online subscriptions to play PC games.

''Yes, it does look like a fluke, doesn't it?'' Ms. Frazier said. ''Rest assured
it's not.''

She said the bulk of this surge in sales is rooted in the role-playing video
game genre that, itself, grew 43 percent over the same period last year. ''The
robust performance we're seeing in PC game sales can be tied to several key
titles across several genres,'' she said, ''but we'd be remiss not to address
the continued success of World of Warcraft.''

The upsurge comes after some recent reversals. Over all, retail sales of
PC-based games in the United States exceeded $970 million in 2006, an increase
of about 1 percent of sales the previous year of $953 million, which represented
about a 14 percent drop from $1.1 billion in 2004.

By contrast, according to the NPD Group, retail sales for console games in 2006
were $4.8 billion; another $1.7 billion was spent on games for hand-held devices
like Sony's PlayStation Portable.

''I think with three consoles out in the last couple of years, it's natural to
focus on consoles,'' said Todd Hollenshead, chief executive of id Software,
which was a pioneer in first-person-shooter games for the PC but today makes
games for PCs and consoles. ''There's a lot of excitement, a lot of marketing
dollars and a lot of hype for consoles.''

In an arena where the console makers market their wares heavily, he said, ''we
don't have any champion of the PC game business to step in and leverage those
sorts of marketing dollars.''

But that may change with new initiatives by several companies to use PC gaming
as a showcase for their technologies and services.

Under the rubric Games for Windows, Microsoft is instituting a number of
measures to raise the profile of PC games in retail stores while lowering
barriers that have made buying and playing games on computers less attractive.

Last month, it announced that it would soon extend its Xbox Live online gaming
and entertainment network to include games played on PCs, a program it is
calling Games for Windows -- Live.

And to minimize the confusion of ensuring that a particular computer has
adequate graphics and processing capabilities to play a particular game,
Microsoft's latest operating system, Windows Vista, is designed to evaluate any
computer it is running on.

Based on its assessment, Vista gives the computer a ''system score.'' Under the
Games for Windows program, games are assigned a score, giving shoppers an easy
guide for determining if a game in the store will play well on their computer at
home, said Kevin Unangst, director of global marketing for Games for Windows.

Another move, he said, is to permit gamers who are more comfortable playing
games with Xbox controllers than with keyboards and mice to use their Xbox
controllers, wired and wireless (by way of a special $20 U.S.B. wireless
adapter) with their PCs.

''One of the greatest barriers to PC gaming is user interface, controllers,'' he
said.

In the meantime, as the latest generation of consoles are among the most
powerful ever made, PCs, including notebook computers, can continually outstrip
consoles in sheer power and speed. Computer development cycles, the rates of
adopting faster and more powerful technologies, are always much faster than
those of consoles, whose core components cannot be upgraded like PCs', said
Abizar Vahkaria, the worldwide head of gaming at Dell.

''Gaming actually started on computers and has been evolving on the PC for a
very long time,'' he said, noting that Dell is deeply committed to designing and
building computers that cater to gamers' needs and desires. ''What we do at Dell
is work with all of the game developers and publishers and do all we can to
deliver a world-class experience with gaming.''

An example is Dell's XPS 710 H2C, a hulking desktop tower that looks as if it
could have been snatched from the machined clutches of ''The Matrix.'' Under its
black shell, gamers can order, for instance, super-powerful hardware like an
Intel Core 2 Extreme QX6700 Quad-Core processor and Nvidia GeForce 8800 GTX
graphics cards with SLi dual graphics technology.

The PC, which costs more than $5,000, is kept from melting into a pool of
plastics and metals by a two-stage, thermoelectric-liquid-cooling system. It can
also play games on an optional 20-inch high-resolution flat-panel monitor, Mr.
Vahkaria said.

Dell also owns Alienware, which along with VoodooPC (acquired last fall by
Hewlett-Packard) has a reputation for computers aimed at hard-core gamers.

This month, Hewlett-Packard executives unveiled an ambitious set of development
initiatives to improve the video-game experience -- from the networks they are
played over to the computers developers use to create games and the PCs players
use to enjoy them.

For now, what the company has to show are prototypes, like wrap-around display
screens for gaming that resemble giant visors. But Rahul Sood, chief technology
officer for Hewlett-Packard's global gaming business unit, said new products
would be ready later this year.

For computer makers, catering to gamers is more than a niche pursuit. Worldwide,
where video games amount to a $36 billion industry, ''the PC is, no doubt, the
gaming platform of choice,'' said Michael Arzt, senior vice president and
general managerof the American office of International Cyber Marketing, the
organizer of the World Cyber Games, a major video game festival.

And that market extends from professional gamers at high-end computers to those
at more humble PCs.

''Not everyone wants to lay down the money for a console and a big-screen
television to make it work,'' Mr. Arzt said. ''The thing about the economics of
the PC,'' he added, is that ''everybody needs a computer.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A screen shot from Enemy Territory: Quake Wars, developed for
the PC by id Software and Splash Damage.
 Bennett Kirschner, a lawyer and computer game player, left, is among those who
shop at GameStop in Manhattan. Unlike others, he prefers PC games to the latest
titles for Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony consoles. (Photographs by Don Hogan
Charles/The New York Times)(pg. C4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               28 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 17, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sony Reports Its Worst Loss in Four Years

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 991 words

DATELINE: TOKYO, May 16


Sony  posted its worst quarterly loss in four years on Wednesday, but said
strong television sales and hit movies like ''Spider-Man 3'' will put it back on
course by year-end when it expects a record profit.

The Japanese electronics conglomerate said it lost 67.6 billion yen ($599
million) in the three months that ended March 31, as a weak start for its new
PlayStation 3 video game console masked a turnaround in other divisions like
consumer electronics and movies.

For the entire fiscal year ended in March, Sony's net profit rose just 2.2
percent, to 126.3 billion yen ($1.04 billion), the company said.

Sony sounded a rosier note, however, in its forecast for the current fiscal
year, when it expects to narrow its video game losses and bring its
bread-and-butter TV division to profitability. The company said it expected a
record 320 billion yen ($2.6 billion) profit for the year through March 2008.

Analysts said Wednesday's results suggested that Sony was putting its troubles
behind and moving back on track to recovery from the grim days in 2003 when
losses at the company sent Japan's entire stock market into a nosedive.

But analysts also said that the new PlayStation's disappointing start
underscored how the company still had its work cut out to regain its former
luster.

''Sony has made significant improvements, but its recovery is still very
modest,'' said Koya Tabata, an analyst in the Tokyo office of Credit Suisse
Securities. ''Sony is still working on getting back to being just a normally
healthy company, from a bad one. It's still far from being the industry
leader.''

Sony is in the second year of a turnaround effort led by its first foreign chief
executive, Howard Stringer, who has closed factories, cut jobs and axed
unprofitable products like Aibo, the robot dog. The once-proud Japanese giant
has found itself in the unfamiliar role of playing catch-up with relative
newcomers like Samsung of South Korea in flat-panel TVs and the Apple iPod in
portable music, a business that Sony itself pioneered more than two decades ago
with the Walkman cassette player.

Recently, Sony has scored a string of hits with its Bravia flat-panel TVs, Cyber
-shot digital cameras and movies like the newest James Bond film, ''Casino
Royale.'' But analysts said PlayStation 3's success remains crucial to the
company's overall turnaround efforts. The new console showcases some of Sony's
newest and most expensive technologies, including its high-speed Cell
microprocessor and Blu-ray next-generation DVD.

Mr. Stringer has been counting on PlayStation 3 to become a global hit to help
restore the company's reputation as an innovator and keep ahead of inexpensive
Chinese rivals.

Since its November rollout in the United States and Japan, PlayStation 3 has
quickly fallen behind its two rivals, Nintendo Wii by Nintendo and the Xbox 360
from Microsoft. According to the NPD Group, a New York-based market research
company, Sony sold 501,000 PlayStation 3 consoles in the United States from
January to March, behind Wii sales of 1.03 million and Xbox 360's 721,000.

That is a big setback for Sony, whose previous game console, PlayStation 2, held
a commanding 70 percent share of the global market. The newer PlayStation has
suffered from repeated production delays, and is more expensive than Wii or Xbox
360. Last month, Ken Kutaragi, the father of the PlayStation series and once a
rising star at Sony, announced that he would step down in June as chief
executive of the game division.

Sony said on Wednesday that it shipped 5.5 million PlayStation 3s in the last
fiscal year, below its target of 6 million. In this fiscal year, it said it
expected to ship 11 million of the consoles, which would still put it behind
Nintendo's expected sales of 14 million Wii units this year.

Sony's chief financial officer, Nobuyuki Oneda, told reporters that it would be
difficult for the games unit to break even this year, though it should pare its
losses. Sony said the games unit lost 232 billion yen ($1.9 billion) last year,
and it blamed the selling of PlayStation consoles at prices below production
costs to try to keep up with Wii and Xbox 360.

So far, Wii has attracted consumers with its easy-to-play games and wandlike
wireless controller. But analysts said PlayStation 3 still has the potential to
become a hit, especially as consumers replace their current TVs with
high-definition sets, which will better display PlayStation 3's superior
graphics.

''There's not much reason for most consumers to own a PS3 now,'' said Masayuki
Otani, an analyst at Maruwa Securities. ''But that could easily change in a few
years.''

Sony painted a much brighter picture of its other divisions, most notably
consumer electronics, which accounted for 73 percent of total sales last year.
Analysts particularly welcomed signs of a turnaround in TVs, an area where Sony
fell behind competitors after it was slow to make the shift from tube sets to
flat panels.

Sony said profit at its electronics division jumped almost 22-fold last year to
157 billion yen ($1.3 billion), as sales rose 16.9 percent, to 6.1 trillion yen
($50 billion). The company said the big profit gain partly reflected the
conclusion of an embarrassing recall of overheating laptop batteries that cost
51 billion yen ($422 million) last year.

Sony's movie unit posted a 55.7 percent gain in profits, to 42.7 billion yen
($353 million), the company said. Sony also said it expected to gain from the 59
billion yen ($488 million) sale of its former Tokyo headquarters. Sony has moved
its offices from the industrial Tokyo neighborhood where the company had spent
most its 61-year existence to a new tower in the city's redeveloped Shinagawa
area.

In the current fiscal year, Sony said it expected overall sales to rise 6
percent, to 8.78 trillion yen ($72 billion). Last year, its sales rose 10.5
percent, to 8.3 trillion yen ($68 billion), the company said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               29 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 20, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sharp Shooters

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Travel Magazine; The Get; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 4 words


For making snap judgments.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: 1. shockproof and waterproof 7.1-megapixel olympus stylus 770
sw, with 3x optical zoom, 2.5-inch screen and 27 shooting modes, $380. go to
www.olympusamerica.com. 2. 7.1-megapixel canon powershot a570 is, with 4x
optical zoom, 2.5-inch screen and full manual controls, $299. go to
www.usa.canon.com. 3. wi-fi- and dlna-enabled 6-megapixel sony cyber-shot
dsc-g1, with 3x optical zoom, 3.5-inch screen and 2gb internal memory, $600. go
to www.sonystyle.com. 4. 7.2-megapixel panasonic lumix dmc-tz3 with 10x optical
zoom, 3-inch screen, dual-image playback and leica lens, $350. go to
www.panasonic.com. produced by Stephen Milioti. (Photographs By Ilan Rubin)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               30 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 23, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Action Hero Breaks Summer's Fantasy Spell

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1029 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 22


When last seen, in 1995, the New York super-cop John McClane, alter ego of the
actor Bruce Willis, was performing barehanded bomb disposal on a downtown train
and parrying racist attitude from his partner, Samuel L. Jackson, as he put away
a batch of Germanic baddies led by the distinctly British Jeremy Irons.

Next month Lieutenant McClane will try to hurdle a new kind of obstacle. He's
about to find out if the summer movie audience still has a taste for cinematic
red meat.

''Live Free or Die Hard,'' the fourth installment of 20th Century Fox's
long-running ''Die Hard'' series, has emerged as the only straight-ahead, major
studio action film set for the year's prime moviegoing weeks. Not long ago the
same period, from early May to mid-July, routinely brought flesh-and-bone hits
like ''The Bourne Identity'' (2002), ''The Fast and the Furious'' (2001), ''Con
Air'' (1997) and, of course, that last McClane romp, ''Die Hard With a
Vengeance.''

In late spring and early summer, studio schedules are now dominated by
effects-driven fantasies (''Transformers'' and ''Pirates of the Caribbean: At
World's End''); comedies (''Knocked Up'' and ''Evan Almighty''); and the
occasional caper (''Ocean's Thirteen'').

Studios, for box office reasons, have pushed real-life action films, even when
rated PG-13, toward late summer or fall and away from what is becoming a 10-week
summertime fun zone. This year, for example, ''The Bourne Ultimatum,'' with Matt
Damon as the amnesiac spy, is scheduled for release on August 3, while ''The
Brave One,'' in which Jodie Foster does a vigilante turn, is set for Sept. 14.

Tom Rothman, a co-chairman of Fox, said the studio ''consciously took
advantage'' of the summertime action-movie gap in its decision to release its
fourth ''Die Hard'' on June 27, five days after Universal's ''Evan Almighty''
and a week before ''Transformers,'' from Paramount and DreamWorks. A surfeit of
''fantasy and computer-generated visual effects has left a hunger in the
audience for real things,'' Mr. Rothman added. Over the next few weeks Fox will
tease that perceived appetite with a marketing campaign that promotes John
McClane with the words: ''No mask. No cape. No problem.''

Mr. Rothman's studio isn't alone in bringing part of its early summer slate back
down to earth. Paramount Vantage has scheduled ''A Mighty Heart,'' in which
Angelina Jolie plays the wife of the murdered journalist Daniel Pearl, for June
22. And MGM will open ''Mr. Brooks,'' a thriller starring Kevin Costner, on June
1. But ''Live Free or Die Hard,'' with a budget in the $100 million range, is
the most ambitious attempt to challenge the summer drift to family-friendly
fantasy and cartoons.

The new film's screenwriter, Mark Bomback, says that McClane, in his latest
incarnation, finds himself detailed to an anti-terror task force that works with
the Department of Homeland Security. The twist adds a touch of political
striation to a picture that will carry the decidedly neutral title ''Die Hard
4.0'' in foreign markets. But the writer and others say its deepest thinking
involves McClane's low-tech approach to high-tech cyber-terror. ''He's an analog
guy faced with this digital problem,'' Mr. Bomback said.

The movie's makers also take pride in having used few computer-generated
effects, choosing instead, for instance, to shoot a real car at a real
helicopter. ''The stitches Bruce Willis got in his head weren't virtual,'' Mr.
Rothman said.

Mr. Willis is also an older guy. He was 33 when the first ''Die Hard'' was
released in 1988, and is now 52. Still, a 60-year-old Sylvester Stallone revived
a much older franchise when he pulled off a surprise hit with ''Rocky Balboa''
last year.

In the dozen years since the last ''Die Hard'' -- which had $361 million in
worldwide ticket sales, by far the best box office performance of the three --
studio executives have tinkered with possible plots while wooing Mr. Willis. Ron
Bass, best known for writing dramas like ''The Joy Luck Club,'' said he was
surprised recently to find himself identified as an initial writer of ''Live
Free'' in documents submitted by the studio to the Writers Guild of America,
West. Years ago, Mr. Bass learned, Fox had considered turning a Latin American
adventure he had written into the next McClane vehicle.

Eventually the company landed on a script that had been written by David Marconi
as a follow-up to his 1998 action hit, ''Enemy of the State.'' That script,
which had terrorists flying a jumbo jet into Manhattan by remote control, had
been shelved after the 9/11 attacks. Mr. Marconi now shares story credit with
Mr. Bomback, who retooled the premise, working with Mr. Willis, who is a
producer of the new film, and Len Wiseman (''Underworld''), its director.

By the time that work was done, however, hard action movies were fading from the
big-ticket season. Studios have discovered that computer animation and effects
can attract the widest number of moviegoers, even while fretting that too real
on-screen violence might somehow narrow the audience.

''You could argue that we're in a war, and people hate this kind of stuff,''
suggested the film historian David Thomson, who nonetheless cautioned that
patterns in film release schedules were often more apparent than real.

Studios have also clearly been reluctant to shut out young viewers with the
restrictive R ratings that were traditional for action films, including all
three in the ''Die Hard'' series. ''Things seem to get by in visual effects
films that do not get by in live action,'' said Lawrence Gordon, who was a
producer of the first two ''Die Hard'' films. This time around ''Live Free or
Die Hard'' may yet come up with a PG-13 rating, much like the first two
''Bourne'' films and the latest James Bond adventure, ''Casino Royale.''

To get that rating, the occasionally foul-mouthed McClane will have to watch his
language. But he won't be deprived of his signature line, if posters on the
buses driving through Manhattan and elsewhere are any indication. ''Yippee kai
yay,'' they begin, adding a couple of letters that suggest that things will get
at least a bit gritty this summer.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bruce Willis in ''Live Free or Die Hard,'' to be released on
June 27. (Photo by Frank Masi/20th Century Fox)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               31 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 29, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Computer Siege in Estonia, War Fears Turn to Cyberspace

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and JOHN MARKOFF; Mark Landler reported from Tallinn and
John Markoff from San Francisco. Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting from
Moscow.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1841 words

DATELINE: TALLINN, Estonia, May 24


When Estonian authorities began removing a bronze statue of a World War II-era
Soviet soldier from a park in this bustling Baltic seaport last month, they
expected violent street protests by Estonians of Russian descent.

They also knew from experience that ''if there are fights on the street, there
are going to be fights on the Internet,'' said Hillar Aarelaid, the director of
Estonia's Computer Emergency Response Team. After all, for people here the
Internet is almost as vital as running water; it is used routinely to vote, file
their taxes, and, with their cellphones, to shop or pay for parking.

What followed was what some here describe as the first war in cyberspace, a
monthlong campaign that has forced Estonian authorities to defend their
pint-size Baltic nation from a data flood that they say was set off by orders
from Russia or ethnic Russian sources in retaliation for the removal of the
statue.

The Estonians assert that an Internet address involved in the attacks belonged
to an official who works in the administration of Russia's president, Vladimir
V. Putin.

The Russian government has denied any involvement in the attacks, which came
close to shutting down the country's digital infrastructure, clogging the Web
sites of the president, the prime minister, Parliament and other government
agencies, staggering Estonia's biggest bank and overwhelming the sites of
several daily newspapers.

''It turned out to be a national security situation,'' Estonia's defense
minister, Jaak Aaviksoo, said in an interview. ''It can effectively be compared
to when your ports are shut to the sea.''

Computer security experts from NATO, the European Union, the United States and
Israel have since converged on Tallinn to offer help and to learn what they can
about cyberwar in the digital age.

''This may well turn out to be a watershed in terms of widespread awareness of
the vulnerability of modern society,'' said Linton Wells II, the principal
deputy assistant secretary of defense for networks and information integration
at the Pentagon. ''It has gotten the attention of a lot of people.''

The authorities anticipated there would be a backlash to the removal of the
statue, which had become a rallying point for Estonia's large Russian-speaking
minority, particularly as it was removed to a less accessible military
graveyard.

When the first digital intruders slipped into Estonian cyberspace at 10 p.m. on
April 26, Mr. Aarelaid figured he was ready. He had erected firewalls around
government Web sites, set up extra computer servers and put his staff on call
for a busy week.

By April 29, Tallinn's streets were calm again after two nights of riots caused
by the statue's removal, but Estonia's electronic Maginot Line was crumbling. In
one of the first strikes, a flood of junk messages was thrown at the e-mail
server of the Parliament, shutting it down. In another, hackers broke into the
Web site of the Reform Party, posting a fake letter of apology from the prime
minister, Andrus Ansip, for ordering the removal of the highly symbolic statue.

At that point, Mr. Aarelaid, a former police officer, gathered security experts
from Estonia's Internet service providers, banks, government agencies and the
police. He also drew on contacts in Finland, Germany, Slovenia and other
countries to help him track down and block suspicious Internet addresses and
halt traffic from computers as far away as Peru and China.

The bulk of the cyberassaults used a technique known as a distributed
denial-of-service attack. By bombarding the country's Web sites with data,
attackers can clog not only the country's servers, but also its routers and
switches, the specialized devices that direct traffic on the network.

To magnify the assault, the hackers infiltrated computers around the world with
software known as bots, and banded them together in networks to perform these
incursions. The computers become unwitting foot soldiers, or ''zombies,'' in a
cyberattack.

In one case, the attackers sent a single huge burst of data to measure the
capacity of the network. Then, hours later, data from multiple sources flowed
into the system, rapidly reaching the upper limit of the routers and switches.

By the end of the first week, the Estonians, with the help of authorities in
other countries, had become reasonably adept at filtering out malicious data.
Still, Mr. Aarelaid knew the worst was yet to come. May 9 was Victory Day, the
Russian holiday that marks the Soviet Union's defeat of Nazi Germany and honors
fallen Red Army soldiers. The Internet was rife with plans to mark the occasion
by taking down Estonia's network.

Mr. Aarelaid huddled with security chiefs at the banks, urging them to keep
their services running. He was also under orders to protect an important
government briefing site. Other sites, like that of the Estonian president, were
sacrificed as low priorities.

The attackers used a giant network of bots -- perhaps as many as one million
computers in places as far away as the United States and Vietnam -- to amplify
the impact of their assault. In a sign of their financial resources, there is
evidence that they rented time on other so-called botnets.

''When you combine very, very large packets of information with thousands of
machines, you've got the recipe for very damaging denial-of-service attacks,''
said Jose Nazario, an expert on bots at Arbor Networks, an Internet security
firm in Ann Arbor, Mich.

In the early hours of May 9, traffic spiked to thousands of times the normal
flow. May 10 was heavier still, forcing Estonia's biggest bank to shut down its
online service for more than an hour. Even now, the bank, Hansabank, is under
assault and continues to block access to 300 suspect Internet addresses. It has
had losses of at least $1 million.

Finally, on the afternoon of May 10, the attackers' time on the rented servers
expired, and the botnet attacks fell off abruptly.

All told, Arbor Networks measured dozens of attacks. The 10 largest assaults
blasted streams of 90 megabits of data a second at Estonia's networks, lasting
up to 10 hours each. That is a data load equivalent to downloading the entire
Windows XP operating system every six seconds for 10 hours.

''Hillar and his guys are good,'' said Bill Woodcock, an American Internet
security expert who was also on hand to observe the response. ''There aren't a
lot of other countries that could combat that on his level of calm
professionalism.''

Estonia's defense was not flawless. To block hostile data, it had to close off
large parts of its network to people outside the country.

''It is really a shame that an Estonian businessman traveling abroad does not
have access to his bank account,'' said Linnar Viik, a computer science
professor and leader in Estonia's high-tech industry. ''For members of the
Estonian Parliament, it meant four days without e-mail.''

Still, Mr. Viik said the episode would serve as a learning experience. The use
of botnets, for example, illustrates how a cyberattack on a single country can
ensnare many other countries.

In recent years, cyberattacks have been associated with Middle East and
Serbian-Croatian conflicts. But computer systems at the Pentagon, NASA,
universities and research labs have been compromised in the past.

Scientists and researchers convened by the National Academy of Sciences this
year heard testimony from military strategy experts indicating that both China
and Russia have offensive information-warfare programs. The United States is
also said to have begun a cyberwarfare effort.

Though Estonia cannot be sure of the attackers' identities, their plans were
posted on the Internet even before the attack began. On Russian-language forums
and chat groups, the investigators found detailed instructions on how to send
disruptive messages, and which Estonian Web sites to use as targets.

''We were watching them being set up in real time,'' said Mr. Aarelaid, who
weeks later could find several examples using Google.

For NATO, the attack may lead to a discussion of whether it needs to modify its
commitment to collective defense, enshrined in Article V of the North Atlantic
Treaty. Mr. Aarelaid said NATO's Internet security experts said little but took
copious notes during their visit.

Because of the murkiness of the Internet -- where attackers can mask their
identities by using the Internet addresses of others, or remotely program
distant computers to send data without their owners even knowing it -- several
experts said that the attackers would probably never be caught. American
government officials said that the nature of the attacks suggested they were
initiated by ''hacktivists,'' technical experts who act independently from
governments.

''At the present time, we are not able to prove direct state links,'' Mr.
Aaviksoo, Estonia's defense minister, said. ''All we can say is that a server in
our president's office got a query from an I.P. address in the Russian
administration,'' he added, using the abbreviation for Internet protocol. Moscow
had offered no help in tracking down people who the Estonian government believes
may be involved.

A spokesman for the Kremlin, Dmitri S. Peskov, denied Russian state involvement
in the attacks and added, ''The Estonia side has to be extremely careful when
making accusations.''

The police here arrested and then released a 19-year-old Estonian man of Russian
descent whom they suspected of helping to organize the attacks. Meanwhile,
Estonia's foreign ministry has circulated a document that lists several Internet
addresses inside the Russian government that it said took part in the attacks.

''I don't think it was Russia, but who can tell?'' said Gadi Evron, a computer
security expert from Israel who spent four days in Tallinn writing a post-mortem
on the response for the Estonians. ''The Internet is perfect for plausible
deniability.''

Mr. Evron, an executive at an Internet security firm called Beyond Security, is
a veteran of this kind of warfare. He set up the Computer Emergency Response
Team, or CERT, in Israel. Web sites in Israel are regularly subjected to attacks
by Palestinians or others sympathetic to their cause.

''Whenever there is political tension, there is a cyber aftermath,'' Mr. Evron
said, noting that sites in Denmark became targets after a newspaper there
published satirical cartoons depicting the prophet Muhammad.

The attacks on Estonia's systems are not over, but they have dropped in volume
and intensity, and are aimed mainly at banks. The last major wave of attacks was
on May 18.

Now that the onslaught has ebbed, Mr. Aarelaid is mopping up. A few days ago, he
managed to get to the sauna with Jaan Priisalu, the head of computer security at
Hansabank, and other friends from Estonia's Internet security fraternity.

''I'm a simple I.T. guy,'' he said, gazing at a flickering computer screen. ''I
know a lot about bits and packets of data; I don't know about the bigger
questions. But somebody orchestrated this thing.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The memorial at its new site, in a military cemetery. (Photo by
Dimitar Dilkoff/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
 Protesters in Tallinn confronted the police on April 26, after authorities
announced plans to remove a Soviet-era memorial to World War II. (Photo by
Reuters)(pg. C7)  Chart: ''Attack on Estonia''  APRIL 26-27 First data-flooding
attacks on Estonia's computer networks, coinciding with the government's
decision to relocate a Soviet-era World War II memorial. Web sites of
Parliament, the president and the prime minister are hit.  APRIL 30 After the
Web sites of several daily newspapers are brought down by cyberattacks, Estonian
officials convene an emergency meeting of computer experts from Internet service
providers, banks, government agencies and law enforcement. A plan is set to
protect vital services, like online banking.  MAY 2 Internet service providers
around the world help to block the malicious data. The flow of incoming data
begins to trail off as groups of Internet addresses are blocked.  MAY 5 Police
arrest a 19-year-old Estonian man of Russian descent, suspected of helping
organize the attacks. He is later released. The government of Estonia says the
attacks originated in Russia.  MAY 8 Estonian officials prepare for an attack
expected to coincide with Victory Day, a Russian holiday on May 9. European
Internet experts meeting in Tallinn volunteer to help.  MAY 9-10 Attackers
invisibly take control of computers around the world to coordinate larger
attacks. A huge spike in data traffic forces Hansabank, Estonia's biggest bank,
to shut down its online banking network.  MAY 18 Last major wave of attacks,
though some assaults continue.  (Source by The New York Times)(pg. C7)  Map of
Estonia highlighting Tallin (pg. C7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               32 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 29, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

News Summary

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 857 words


INTERNATIONAL A3-11  Poverty Stricken Iraqis Turn to Selling Sex in Syria For
anyone living in Damascus, the fact that some Iraqi refugees are selling sex or
working in sex clubs is difficult to ignore. Men freely talk of being approached
by pimps trawling for customers and of women soliciting men directly, an act
unthinkable in Arab culture. A1   Iran and U.S. Talk Face to Face The United
States and Iran held rare face-to-face talks in Baghdad, adhering to an agenda
that focused strictly on the war in Iraq and on ways they could help to improve
conditions.  A8   Spain Arrests 16 Moroccans Spanish police arrested 16 men,
most of them Moroccans, whom they suspect of recruiting volunteers to fight in
Iraq and other countries and spreading propaganda calling for Islamic jihad.

A9   Kazakh Leader's Kin Is Sought Authorities in Kazakhstan have issued an
international arrest warrant for Rakhat Aliyev, the son-in-law of President
Nursultan A. Nazarbayev and one of the Central Asian oil state's most powerful
and loathed men. A11   Violence Spikes in Afghanistan Angry supporters of Gen.
Abdul Rashid Dostum, the ethnic Uzbek strongman, clashed with the police in the
northern town of Shiberghan, leaving at least seven people dead and 34 wounded,
officials said. The government sent army units to the area, anticipating more
unrest. A10   Japan Minister Hangs Himself Japan's agriculture minister,
Toshikatsu Matsuoka, hanged himself just before he was to face parliamentary
questioning about a political finance scandal. Analysts said the death could
hurt Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's popularity ratings, which have fallen recently.
A3  NATIONAL A12-16   Needle Exchange Program Alone in City's AIDS Fight
Washington is the only city in the country barred by federal law from using
local tax money to finance needle exchange programs. It is also the city with
the fastest-growing number of new AIDS cases. The city's only needle exchange
program, Prevention Works, subsists on a shoestring budget of private donations.
A1   For Sale: Uranium Furious lobbying has broken out over who should end up
with 25 million kilograms of uranium that the government is looking to sell. One
of the companies most vocal in making its case for the uranium, estimated to be
worth at least $750 million, says it should be given the material free.   A12
Cancer Genome Advance Researchers say they have found six new sites of variation
in the genome that increase the risk of breast cancer. Together with already
known genes, the discovery means that much of the overall genetic risk of breast
cancer may now have been accounted for, researchers say.   A13   Anger Over
Immigration Deal Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, a Republican who garners top
ratings from conservative groups every year, is the unlikely linchpin to the
fragile alliance of Democrats and Republicans trying to push the immigration
bill through the Senate. That role has made Mr. Kyl into a lightining rod in the
immigration debate.   A14   Bush Speaks at Arlington President Bush used his
traditional Memorial Day address at Arlington National Cemetery to speak
directly, in deeply personal terms, to the families of soldiers killed in Iraq
and Afghanistan, assuring them that Americans ''will never forget the terrible
loss you have suffered.''   A16  NEW YORK/REGION B1-8   Most Powerful Leaders In
New York Are at Odds Gov. Eliot Spitzer and the Senate majority leader, Joseph
L. Bruno, are like a dysfunctional power couple. The evidence of their
antagonism has escalated into an extraordinarily public feud punctuated by ad
hominem attacks and barbed sniping in the press. B1   Mayor Critical of Congress
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, in unusually pointed and broad language, criticized
Congress for parts of a comprehensive immigration bill now being debated in the
Senate.  B2   BUSINESS DAY C1-8   Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Even as
Congressional leaders draft legislation to reduce greenhouse gases linked to
global warming, a powerful roster of Democrats and Republicans is pushing to
subsidize coal as the king of ''alternative fuels.''   A1   Cyberwar in a
Digital Age When Estonian authorities began removing a statue of a Soviet
soldier, they expected protests, but what followed was a series of cyber attacks
that nearly crippled the government. Computer security experts have converged to
offer help and to learn about cyberwar in the digital age.   A1  Business Digest
C2   ARTS E1-10   Box Office Is Pirate Booty The Memorial Day weekend affirmed
the muscle of the international movie market as ''Pirates of the Caribbean: At
World's End'' set new industry benchmarks with an aggressive release in more
than 10,000 theaters in 104 countries.  E1  OBITUARIES A17   Tod Mikuriya A
California psychiatrist who was widely regarded as the grandfather of the
medical marijuana movement in the United States, he was 73.  A17  EDITORIAL
A18-19   Editorials: Make a bad bill better; getting to a Colombia trade deal;
forget ethics, remember politics; Dorothy Samuels on revisiting the Wicks Law.
Columns: David Brooks and Bob Herbert.  Crossword E2 TV Listings E9 Weather B7

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               33 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 7, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

He's 9 Years Old and 56 Pounds, And a Video-Game Circuit Star

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1071 words

DATELINE: HOLBROOK, N.Y., June 5


Victor M. De Leon III has been playing video games on the professional circuit
for five years now, racking up thousands of dollars in prizes and endorsements
at tournaments around the country. He has a national corporate sponsor, a
publicist and a Web site, with 531 photos chronicling his career. A documentary
filmmaker has been following him for months.

Victor weighs 56 pounds and likes to watch SpongeBob SquarePants at his home
here on Long Island. He celebrated his 9th birthday last month with a trip to a
carnival and a vanilla cake. He gets above-average marks in the third grade,
where he recently drew a dragon for art class.

The appropriately named Victor -- better known to cyber rivals and fans as Lil'
Poison -- is thought to be the world's youngest professional gamer; Guinness has
called about listing him in its book of World Records. Starting on Friday, he is
set to be among 2,500 competitors in the three-day Major League Gaming Pro
Circuit Event at the Meadowlands in New Jersey, battling for titles like the
titan on the Xbox game Halo 2 and prizes up to $20,000.

Asked what he thinks about the fuss over his virtual exploits, Victor shrugged
with shy indifference. Pressed, he mumbled: ''I don't know. I didn't think about
it.''

What was it like to be featured by ''60 Minutes'' as one of ''the seven most
amazing youngsters''? Victor's only reaction was that he ''looked small'' on
television because he had grown a bit during the lag between the taping and the
broadcast.

Victor's aptitude for video games surfaced at age 2, as he begin mimicking his
father's play. Mr. De Leon, 31, who markets and sells warehouse equipment, was
an early adopter himself, having started at 8 with such quaint games as Pac-Man.

But Halo is a violent, shoot-'em-up game, the type that has stirred much debate
about effects on youngsters since the 1999 massacre at Columbine High School,
where the killers were frequent players of the computer game Doom.

Many researchers caution that excessive gaming displaces exercise, socializing
and creative play, and that video games like Halo can promote aggressive
feelings and actions. ''It's not enough,'' said Joanne Cantor, a professor
emerita at the University of Wisconsin at Madison, for ''a parent to just tell a
child that the video violence is not real.''

Anna Akerman, a developmental psychologist at Adelphi University on Long Island
who specializes in media and children, said that it was not that simple to
disentangle cause and effect, and that some violent people might be drawn to
gory games because they are already predisposed to violence.

To critics who suggest that he is ruining Victor's childhood, Mr. De Leon shrugs
like his son, and notes that when not training for a specific competition, his
Xbox time averages about two hours a day. Away from the screen, he said, Victor
is a typical third grader who likes to bike and swim and plays the violin.

''If they don't live here, they don't know what we do,'' Mr. De Leon said at his
home here. ''I'm not overdoing it, and he's not overdoing it.''

Although Mr. De Leon helps manage his son's career and accompanies him to
contests around the nation, he insisted he is not the digital version of the
archetypal stage mother. Victor's mother, Maribel De Leon, runs a day care
center and shares custody with his father.

Before Victor enters a competition, his father said he always asks, ''Do you
want to do it?''

Mr. De Leon said he never pushed his son to play video games in the first place,
but welcomed his interest. Mr. De Leon's brother Gabriel, a Halo aficionado
known online as Poison, also served as a mentor.

''He copied me, and he was real good,'' the father recalled. ''He liked to help
me finish games and found glitches, which is pretty hard to do.''

Soon Victor bested his father. ''He kind of passed me when he was 4,'' Mr. De
Leon said. ''I just couldn't keep up with him. I became sort of a coach, but
every time I told him something, he'd say, 'I know, Daddy.'''

That year, Victor joined a team with his father and two uncles at a New York
Halo contest, winning fourth place. At age 5, he entered the Major League Games
and ranked in its top 64 players internationally. By the time he was 7, Victor
competed in Chicago against more than 550 contestants, placing second -- behind
Uncle Gabriel.

Besides prizes and product endorsements, Victor has a deal worth about $20,000
annually, plus expenses for trips to tournaments, from his sponsor, 1UP Network,
a division of Ziff Davis Game Group, owners of gamer magazines and Web sites.
Mr. De Leon declined to specify how much his son has accumulated, but said that
it was almost enough to cover a private college education.

Matthew S. Bromberg, chief executive officer of Major League Gaming, one of
several groups that sponsor competitions, said Victor had been a ''phenomenon''
for some time. But while Victor earns money for playing, he is not yet a
full-fledged pro by the league's strict definition, since he would have to rank
higher -- and be at least 15 years old.

Victor plays video games in the corner of the basement of his home. Dwarfed by a
60-inch video monitor, he settled into a big chair on Tuesday evening, barefoot
and wearing a black jersey with Lil' Poison emblazoned across the back. His gaze
locked on the screen, his tiny thumbs jabbed away at the controller, causing
virtual mayhem of gunfire, explosions, blood splatters and cyber corpses in the
outer-space battle.

Mr. De Leon said he took care to use parental controls to block excessive gore
and offensive language. ''Our family, we're very old fashioned,'' he added,
noting that they belong to the Baptist Church, ''and there's no cursing.''

The father said he also counseled Victor about what is real versus pretend.
''You can't jump off a building and come back to life, or reach out and stop a
truck,'' Mr. De Leon gave as examples.

Victor reaps some extras from his gaming career, like a side trip to Disneyland
during a competition in Los Angeles, and a visit to a rodeo while in Texas --
his favorite excursion.

Victor said he has no plans about what to do when he grows up. For now, he seems
preoccupied with Star Wars toys, fried chicken, jujitsu, guitar music,
basketball, his hamster and his dog, Rocky.

''I like to ride my bike every day,'' he said. Asked if he ever gets bored with
video games, he said, ''Sometimes, yeah.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Victor M. De Leon III, in training. (Photo by James Estrin/The
New York Times)(pg. A1)
Victor M. De Leon III in the basement of his Long Island home
 he's earned thousands of dollars playing video games on the professional
circuit. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               34 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 10, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

You Wanted Socks, but

BYLINE: By Ellen Tien

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; PULSE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 444 words


1. CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD -- Take a letter -- kapow! Hold his calls -- blammo! By
day, he makes corporate villains tremble in their dress socks; by night, they're
trembling barefoot.

Ted Baker silk neckties ($75 at Ted Baker London in New York, 212-343-8989) and
silver cuff links ($85 to $95 at Bloomingdale's in New York, 212-705-2000). C.
O. Bigelow's new men's foaming shave gel, hair and body wash, and cologne, $10
to $19.50 at bathandbodyworks.com).  2. DADOLESCENT -- When Mom said for the
zillionth time not to throw balls in the house, she wasn't talking to the kids.
Some fathers just won't grow up; if you can't beat him, join him. Japanese
Kurakari cardboard windup toys. Some cutting, folding and gluing required for
assembly. ($16 at Aplusrstore.com.)   3. THE MODFATHER -- He's the kind of guy
who will spin through a store and -- badda-bing! -- blow a paycheck on a
closetful of clothes. Give him a wardrobe he can't refuse. Rag & Bone charcoal
lightweight wool Slim Suit ($660 at Barneys New York, 212-826-8900).   4. TECHNO
POP -- Watch him buzz with tech-citement whenever there's an electronic device
within 30 paces. He's the only man you know who really celebrates Motherboard's
Day. Sony Cyber-shot DSC-W200 camera with Face Detection focus technology,
low-light sensitivity and in-camera retouching ($399.99 at ritzcamera.com.)   5.
THE BRAINIAC -- He helped with your calculus homework and never broke a sweat;
he can name the gaffer on any movie after 1972; he used the word ''palimpsest''
a full decade before Gore Vidal made it trendy. Phaidon Colour Library Series,
40 volumes of art history, each containing 48 full-color plates ($398 at
thisisauto.com or 212-229-2292 to order. Delivery may take one to two weeks; the
store will issue a gift card, pre-arrival.)   6. BURNING MAN -- So what if he
dirties every pot, plate and utensil in the entire house just to cook his lucky
omelet? He's on fire! L-Press Juicer with orange rubberized handles ($100 at
momastore.com); cotton cook's apron with built-in padded oven mitts by Royal VKB
(in navy or olive, $25 at Aplusrstore.com).  7. SUPERDAD -- He coached your
Little League team for three years -- even though you dropped out after a month
to join the drama club. At least you'll always have them Mets. For him, the Gym
Kit from Zegna Sport: a cotton T-shirt, microfiber pants, shorts and a jacket
which converts into a handy gym bag ($445 at Saks Fifth Avenue in New York,
212-753-4000, and Ermenegildo Zegna in New York, 212-421-4488). Panoptx
sunglasses with shatter-resistant lenses and rubber eye seals, which allow them
to double as sports goggles ($79 to $250 at panoptx.com).

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times [1,6 and 7]
 illustrations by Brad Hamann)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               35 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 11, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Vietnam Frees 'Cyber Dissident' Before Leader's Visit to U.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 440 words

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam, June 10


Vietnam has released a prominent government critic convicted of spying against
the Communist government, two weeks before Vietnam's president makes a historic
visit to the United States, an official said Sunday.

Nguyen Vu Binh, 39, was released from Nam Ha prison on Saturday under a
presidential amnesty, said Pham Hong Canh, deputy director of the prison in Ha
Nam Province, 40 miles south of Hanoi.

Mr. Binh, a former journalist, was one of Vietnam's first ''cyber dissidents,''
who used the Internet to spread pro-democracy views. In late 2003, he was
convicted of spying and sentenced to seven years in prison and three years of
house arrest. The court said he had committed espionage by gathering
antigovernment information and documents for overseas ''reactionary
organizations.''

Washington has grown increasingly concerned about the arrest and jailing of a
number of dissidents in Vietnam. Last month, President Bush met at the White
House with four Vietnamese-American pro-democracy activists, including one who
had been held in a Vietnamese prison. A spokesman for the National Security
Council, Gordon D. Johndroe, said Vietnam's crackdown on expression was ''out of
keeping with Vietnam's desire to prosper, modernize and take a more prominent
role in world affairs.''

President Nguyen Minh Triet is scheduled to make a visit on June 22 to the
United States, the first by a Vietnamese president.

After the White House formally invited Mr. Triet to Washington, Le Van Bang, the
Vietnamese vice foreign minister, said last week that Hanoi would release three
dissidents before the presidents met. He did not specify who would be released.

Mr. Binh was arrested in September 2002 for writing an article that circulated
on the Internet criticizing a border agreement between Vietnam and China. A
month earlier, he had also joined 20 others in signing a petition to government
leaders demanding a legal overhaul to protect human rights and establish an
independent anticorruption body.

That same year, he also submitted written testimony to the United States
Congress criticizing Vietnam's human rights record.

Mr. Binh left his job at the newspaper Tap Chi Cong San in 2001 after applying
to form an independent opposition political party. The Communist Party, the only
political party in Vietnam, strictly forbids any calls for a multiparty system.

Last month, a Vietnamese court sentenced three pro-democracy activists to as
much as five years in prison each after convicting them of spreading subversive
propaganda.

The United States Embassy in Hanoi issued a statement saying it was ''deeply
troubled'' by the convictions.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               36 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 27, 2007 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Pick Your Poison: Fists or Fireballs

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'LIVE FREE OR
DIE HARD'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 982 words


The gasping, grunting and oozing hard-body slab that muscles, and sometimes
crawls, through "Live Free or Die Hard" sure looks like John McClane. Older if
apparently no wiser, the blue-collar super-cop from the "Die Hard" franchise has
lost his hair, his foul mouth and apparently his nicotine itch, but he still has
the same knack for trouble, the adrenaline-pumping, cheerfully anarchic kind
that causes cars to ignite, bodies to fly, eardrums to pop and hearts to race
and gladden. He's also lost his sneer, but sneering is cheap,  and movies are
expensive, especially when your star has pushed past 50  and slid off the power
lists.

A lot has happened in the 12 years since Bruce Willis yippee-kai-yay-ed  in "Die
Hard With a Vengeance" with a glowering Samuel L. Jackson in tow. During that
time Mr. Willis's star has expanded and collapsed through hits and duds and
plenty of personal off-screen noise. The world has changed too, of course, and
with it the action-flick coordinates: for one, Arnold Schwarzenegger runs
California, while the sober, nonwisecracking likes of Matt Damon's Bourne rules
the  bad-boy roost. For another: Mr. Willis has become an increasingly
appealing character actor, the kind who punches up a scene or two ("Alpha
Dog,""Fast Food Nation") or an entire movie ("16 Blocks"), mostly by playing it
not so nice and very easy.

Life or age or something has mellowed Mr. Willis. He no longer enters a movie
like God's gift, as he did almost two decades ago in the first "Die Hard," lips
pursed as if he alone were in on the joke -- which, given the fat salary he was
earning, perhaps he was. In "Live Free or Die Hard" he enters swinging, fist
smashing through hard glass and sinking into soft flesh. He's making a point and
so is the movie, namely that McClane (and Mr. Willis) is ready to earn our love
again by performing the same lovably violent, meathead tricks as before. And
look, he's not laughing, not exactly, even if the film ends up a goof.

An unexpectedly funny goof, at that, despite everything, including the mayhem
and somewhat creepy plot. The screenplay attributed to Mark Bomback, who shares
the story credit with David Marconi, has the whiff of multiple writers, as
action-driven productions generally do. It originated with a 1997 story
(dubiously titled "A Farewell to Arms") by John Carlin in Wired magazine about
the potential for a cataclysmic, nation-crippling "information war," which
mutated and stalled, picking up new writers and equally doubtful names
("WW3.com,"  "Die Hard 4.0"). Somewhere along the development line, the real
world intruded, which is why the original idea about an information war now
includes a plausible-sounding or at least not entirely outlandish hook to Sept.
11 -- hence, the creepiness.

In most Hollywood action movies, references to Sept. 11 as well as to the wars
in Iraq and Afghanistan are often tacked on or displaced, used for decorative
flag-waving or scenes of torture. "Live Free or Die Hard" tries to engage the
real world more directly than most studio-made fantasies, with  a logic-defined
plot involving a disgruntled government security expert. That would be  Thomas
Gabriel, who seems partly inspired by the counterterrorism expert Richard A.
Clarke and partly informed by Bill Gates and is wholly played by the pretty
Timothy Olyphant, dressed in black and wearing  Maggie Q on his arm. Mr.
Olyphant has many charms, but annihilating menace is not one of them. Mr. Willis
nonetheless keeps any incredulity in check along with his sneer.

Despite its jaw-jutting title, with its evocation of revolutionary America and
radical individualism, "Live Free or Die Hard" keeps a tighter rein on McClane,
dialing down his man-against-the-world attitude to a low hum. He's still more or
less alone, at least existentially, though, as per the action playbook, he
quickly picks up a sidekick and audience surrogate in the hacker impersonated
by Justin Long (flicking between annoyance and amusement).

But McClane is also unequivocally playing for team America, helping the F.B.I.
and its no-nonsense, supremely capable deputy director,  Bowman (Cliff Curtis),
who runs  the sillily named cyber division with blinking monitors and scurrying
minions. Heroic in deed and in acquaintance, Bowman knows to side with McClane,
saving his contemptuous looks for the guy from Homeland Security.

Nothing on Len Wiseman's resume -- he previously  directed the two "Underworld"
flicks, wherein the Goth kids really are vampires -- suggests that he could
wrangle both Mr. Willis and this new film's nerve-jangling action to such
satisfying effect. At least on the second count he has received terrific help
from a sprawling cast of stuntmen and -women (and the stunt coordinator Brad
Martin), who do a great deal to advance the film's old-school mayhem. The use of
Parkour during several fight scenes is particularly tasty, proving that when
cinematic push comes to shove, the French, who originated this ultra-cool
rough-and-tumble, which finds performers bouncing like balls from wall to wall,
rooftop to rooftop and many hair-raising points in between, are definitely in
the coalition of the willing.

"Live Free or Die Hard" is rated PG-13. (Parents strongly cautioned.) Extremely
brutal violence and mild obscenities.

LIVE FREE OR DIE HARD

Opens today nationwide.

Directed by Len Wiseman; written by Mark Bomback, based on a story by Mr.
Bomback and David Marconi; director of photography, Simon Duggan; edited by
Nicolas de Toth; music by Marco Beltrami; production designer, Patrick
Tatopoulos; stunt coordinator, Brad Martin; produced by Michael Fottrell;
released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 130 minutes.

WITH: Bruce Willis (John McClane), Timothy Olyphant (Thomas Gabriel), Justin
Long (Matt Farrell), Cliff Curtis (Bowman), Maggie Q (Mai) and Mary Elizabeth
Winstead (Lucy McClane).

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 28, 2007



CORRECTION: Because of a transmission error, a film review yesterday about
''Live Free or Die Hard'' misstated the critic's description of the plot. It
should have been described as ''logic-defying,'' not ''logic-defined.''

Because of a transmission error, a film review yesterday about ''Live Free or
Die Hard'' misstated the critic's description of the plot. It should have been
described as ''logic-defying,'' not ''logic-defined.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: A midair smashup in ''Live Free or Die Hard,'' the fourth
installment in Bruce Willis's long-running ''Die Hard'' series. (Photograph by
Digital Dimension/Twentieth Century Fox)(pg. E1)
 Bruce Willis reprises his character as the super-cop John McClane. (Photograph
by Frank Masi/20th Century Fox)(pg.E7)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               37 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       June 27, 2007 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Pick Your Poison: Fists or Fireballs;
Movie Review | 'Live Free or Die Hard'

BYLINE: MANOHLA DARGIS

SECTION: MOVIES

LENGTH: 1099 words



HIGHLIGHT: In "Live Free or Die Hard," Bruce Willis is ready to earn our love
again by performing the same lovably violent, meathead tricks as before.


Correction Appended

The gasping, grunting and oozing hard-body slab that muscles, and sometimes
crawls, through "Live Free or Die Hard" sure looks like John McClane. Older if
apparently no wiser, the blue-collar super-cop from the "Die Hard" franchise has
lost his hair, his foul mouth and apparently his nicotine itch, but he still has
the same knack for trouble, the adrenaline-pumping, cheerfully anarchic kind
that causes cars to ignite, bodies to fly, eardrums to pop and hearts to race
and gladden. He's also lost his sneer, but sneering is cheap,  and movies are
expensive, especially when your star has pushed past 50  and slid off the power
lists.

A lot has happened in the 12 years since Bruce Willis yippee-kai-yay-ed  in "Die
Hard With a Vengeance" with a glowering Samuel L. Jackson in tow. During that
time Mr. Willis's star has expanded and collapsed through hits and duds and
plenty of personal off-screen noise. The world has changed too, of course, and
with it the action-flick coordinates: for one, Arnold Schwarzenegger runs
California, while the sober, nonwisecracking likes of Matt Damon's Bourne rules
the  bad-boy roost. For another: Mr. Willis has become an increasingly
appealing character actor, the kind who punches up a scene or two ("Alpha
Dog,""Fast Food Nation") or an entire movie ("16 Blocks"), mostly by playing it
not so nice and very easy.

Life or age or something has mellowed Mr. Willis. He no longer enters a movie
like God's gift, as he did almost two decades ago in the first "Die Hard," lips
pursed as if he alone were in on the joke -- which, given the fat salary he was
earning, perhaps he was. In "Live Free or Die Hard" he enters swinging, fist
smashing through hard glass and sinking into soft flesh. He's making a point and
so is the movie, namely that McClane (and Mr. Willis) is ready to earn our love
again by performing the same lovably violent, meathead tricks as before. And
look, he's not laughing, not exactly, even if the film ends up a goof.

An unexpectedly funny goof, at that, despite everything, including the mayhem
and somewhat creepy plot. The screenplay attributed to Mark Bomback, who shares
the story credit with David Marconi, has the whiff of multiple writers, as
action-driven productions generally do. It originated with a 1997 story
(dubiously titled "A Farewell to Arms") by John Carlin in Wired magazine about
the potential for a cataclysmic, nation-crippling "information war," which
mutated and stalled, picking up new writers and equally doubtful names
("WW3.com,"  "Die Hard 4.0"). Somewhere along the development line, the real
world intruded, which is why the original idea about an information war now
includes a plausible-sounding or at least not entirely outlandish hook to Sept.
11 -- hence, the creepiness.

In most Hollywood action movies, references to Sept. 11 as well as to the wars
in Iraq and Afghanistan are often tacked on or displaced, used for decorative
flag-waving or scenes of torture. "Live Free or Die Hard" tries to engage the
real world more directly than most studio-made fantasies, with  a logic-defying
plot involving a disgruntled government security expert. That would be  Thomas
Gabriel, who seems partly inspired by the counterterrorism expert Richard A.
Clarke and partly informed by Bill Gates and is wholly played by the pretty
Timothy Olyphant, dressed in black and wearing  Maggie Q on his arm. Mr.
Olyphant has many charms, but annihilating menace is not one of them. Mr. Willis
nonetheless keeps any incredulity in check along with his sneer.

Despite its jaw-jutting title, with its evocation of revolutionary America and
radical individualism, "Live Free or Die Hard" keeps a tighter rein on McClane,
dialing down his man-against-the-world attitude to a low hum. He's still more or
less alone, at least existentially, though, as per the action playbook, he
quickly picks up a sidekick and audience surrogate in the hacker impersonated
by Justin Long (flicking between annoyance and amusement).

But McClane is also unequivocally playing for team America, helping the F.B.I.
and its no-nonsense, supremely capable deputy director,  Bowman (Cliff Curtis),
who runs  the sillily named cyber division with blinking monitors and scurrying
minions. Heroic in deed and in acquaintance, Bowman knows to side with McClane,
saving his contemptuous looks for the guy from Homeland Security.

Nothing on Len Wiseman's résumé -- he previously  directed the two "Underworld"
flicks, wherein the Goth kids really are vampires -- suggests that he could
wrangle both Mr. Willis and this new film's nerve-jangling action to such
satisfying effect. At least on the second count he has received terrific help
from a sprawling cast of stuntmen and -women (and the stunt coordinator Brad
Martin), who do a great deal to advance the film's old-school mayhem. The use of
Parkour during several fight scenes is particularly tasty, proving that when
cinematic push comes to shove, the French, who originated this ultra-cool
rough-and-tumble, which finds performers bouncing like balls from wall to wall,
rooftop to rooftop and many hair-raising points in between, are definitely in
the coalition of the willing.

"Live Free or Die Hard" is rated PG-13. (Parents strongly cautioned.) Extremely
brutal violence and mild obscenities.

LIVE FREE OR DIE HARD

Opens today nationwide.

Directed by Len Wiseman; written by Mark Bomback, based on a story by Mr.
Bomback and David Marconi; director of photography, Simon Duggan; edited by
Nicolas de Toth; music by Marco Beltrami; production designer, Patrick
Tatopoulos; stunt coordinator, Brad Martin; produced by Michael Fottrell;
released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 130 minutes.

WITH: Bruce Willis (John McClane), Timothy Olyphant (Thomas Gabriel), Justin
Long (Matt Farrell), Cliff Curtis (Bowman), Maggie Q (Mai) and Mary Elizabeth
Winstead (Lucy McClane).


Correction: June 28, 2007, Thursday

Because of a transmission error, a film review yesterday about "Live Free or Die
Hard" misstated the critic's description of the plot. It should have been
described as "logic-defying," not "logic-defined."

Photos: A midair smashup in "Live Free or Die Hard," the fourth installment in
Bruce Willis's long-running "Die Hard" series. (Photograph by Digital
Dimension/Twentieth Century Fox)(pg. E1); Bruce Willis reprises his character as
the super-cop John McClane. (Photograph by Frank Masi/20th Century Fox)(pg.E7)

Related Articles


     ·    Action Hero Breaks Summer's Fantasy Spell
     ·    A Spurned Parody of 'Die Hard' Returns to YouTube, Approved



Related Slideshows


     ·    Less Hairy, Still Violent


LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Video-Game Circuit Makes MTV Deal

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 100 words


The top international video-game circuit, the World Cyber Games, plans to
announce today an agreement with MTV Networks that includes televising the
tournament's finals on MTV's Spike network in the fall. The league also plans to
provide additional programming for Spike's weekly ''Game Head'' series and for
MTV Web sites, including GameTrailers.com and Xfire.com. The deal comes as
various gaming, or e-sports, leagues have been trying to figure out how to
attract viewers on television in North America. In South Korea, by contrast, at
least three satellite networks are devoted to gaming full-time.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               39 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 22, 2007 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Campaign Chic: Not Too Cool, Never Ever Hot

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1132 words


WHEN Senator John McCain's campaign went into a midflight stall last week, it
was not only   the candidate's  hard-line stance on Iraq or problems with his
party's conservative wing that enthralled the thumb-tapping hordes of the
blogosphere. It was leaks from inside the campaign alleging that Mr. McCain
thought his handlers were dressing him up as a metrosexual.

Political blogs like the Stump and the Swamp, and gossipier ones like Radar, had
a field day with Mr. McCain's so-called ''gay sweater,'' a V-neck worn over a
T-shirt. Fashion insiders, for their part, shrugged off the look as more
appropriate to the buffet line at an assisted living center than the pages of
Out.

But Mr. McCain's so-called gay sweater brought up a perennial political bugbear.
How much attention should politicians pay to their clothes?

''There's too much emphasis and scrutiny on this,'' said Bill Carrick, a
Democratic political strategist who managed   Richard A. Gephardt's  1988
campaign and was a consultant for the candidate  in 2004.   ''There's a fine
line,'' Mr. Carrick added, between candidates staying on top of the message
their clothes project and their ''turning this all into some sort of Hollywood,
television, Garry Trudeau, Bob Forehead kind of thing.''

There is a fine line, that is, between ignoring Dale Carnegie-era notions of
dressing for success (a particularly weird concept in an age of iMoguls in cargo
shorts), and the truth instinctively acknowledged by canny public figures and
generations of Miss Popularity: people judge us by our clothes.

''That is a tremendous suit you have on,'' David Letterman told Senator Barack
Obama last April when he made an appearance on the ''Late Show.'' ''That is a
very electable suit.''

Mr.  Obama's outfit that night was in some ways standard-issue Capitol Hill: a
single-breasted two-button suit whose only nod to fashion was in the choice of
color  -- black in place of the regulation dark blue. His shirt was white and
starched. His tie was a reassuring blue and of a width (2.5 inches) that locates
him squarely in the middle of the sartorial road.

Throughout his campaign, fashion experts say, Mr. Obama has managed to score
hits with wardrobe choices -- jackets nonchalantly slung over a shoulder, short
sleeves in the heartland, neatly tailored  suits on television -- that somehow
telegraph personal comfort without sacrificing authority.

''Voters are looking for a new language and new thinking,'' said Dori Molitor,
the chief executive of WomanWise, a consulting company specializing in marketing
to women. ''Obama helps bring in that new language visually by breaking the
dress code of blue suit, starched shirt and red tie.''

Unlike some  candidates, Mr. Obama ''comes across more like a common person and
has an aura of authenticity,'' she said.

Voters will be hearing a lot about authenticity in the coming months. Mr.
Carrick, the Democratic strategist, called it ''the one thing you've got to
worry about.''

''If somebody doesn't come across as real and believable in their image,'' he
said,  ''they're not going to be believable in their content, either.''

They  risk becoming Al Gore in earth tones, in other words, to cite a famously
lampooned misstep the former presidential candidate undertook on the advice of
Naomi Wolf, then his  image consultant. They  risk making the mistake that Nixon
did when he wore lace-up shoes on the beach. They risk John Kerry's damaging
decision to turn up on television tinted the tangerine hue  of a  Mystic Tan.

''You neither want to be seen as somebody who cares too much about appearance or
too little,'' said Jay Fielden, the editor of Men's Vogue. His magazine's
July-August cover shows John Edwards looking model-handsome and yet sufficiently
populist. He wears, as Mr. Fielden pointed out, a Carhartt field coat from his
own closet, presumably in an attempt to deflect scrutiny away from his wealth,
his North Carolina McMansion and his costly grooming habits and toward the
antipoverty agenda he pursued last week on a sweep through the South.

''There's a strict code that's kind of understood, but that you know these guys
can't talk about,'' said Mr. Fielden, referring to sartorial guidelines whose
very existence is subject to Beltway omerta. ''If you get into a situation like
McCain did, it ends up seeming like you're being dressed by your mother. It's
not very macho.''

And masculinity is always in contention, both at the level of instinctive
emotional response among voters, and at the level of   scrutiny maintained by
the ''army of professional interpreters,'' as D. A. Miller, a literary and
political critic,  calls the legion of journalists and bloggers dissecting
political minutiae like cyber-sibyls consulting the entrails of birds.

''Everyone reads everyone,''  said Professor Miller, who teaches at the
University of California, Berkeley.

So, when a candidate appears to be dressed by others, immediately that candidate
is interpreted ''as gay or effeminate or not butch enough to be president,''
Professor Miller said.

That is, unless the candidate is Mrs. Clinton, who has forgone  the persona that
the National Review contributor Myrna Blyth recently characterized as Hairband
Hillary, the first lady whose unsteady self-image led to frequent coiffure
changes and endearing wardrobe missteps.

The old Hillary Rodham Clinton has been replaced by a candidate who would never
be caught dead in one of Nancy Pelosi's flaming ''Dynasty'' suits, clothes that
send up power woman flares.  Mrs. Clinton's bid for an aura of Oval Office
assurance is orchestrated around a wardrobe of the androgynous beige pantsuits
beloved of policy wonks.

''For women it's a totally separate game, a separate psychology,'' said Juliana
Glover, a lobbyist and longtime Washington insider. A female politician cannot
afford to be too well turned out, Ms. Glover said, or she risks being read as
untrustworthy, a virago, or worse, a vixen.

Mrs. Clinton, of course, is far from clueless about fashion, counting among her
friends the designer Oscar de la Renta, at whose oceanfront estate in the
Dominican Republic the Clintons have spent  holidays.

And her traveling chief of staff, Huma Abedin, enjoys semi-legendary status for
maintaining an improbable level of chic on the campaign trail with a wardrobe of
Yves Saint Laurent, Prada and Marc Jacobs.

''This is a bipartisan phenomenon absolutely,'' Ms. Glover said. ''Just as one
would be suspicious of someone fabulously dressed, wearing top-of-the line skis
who can barely get off the ski lift in Aspen,'' she said, ''in politics, there's
a high level of suspicion of anyone too finished and coiffed.''

Spit and polish, Ms. Glover said, is one thing. Spit and nail polish is
something else.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 29, 2007



CORRECTION: An article last Sunday about politicians' choice of clothing while
campaigning referred incorrectly to the role of Naomi Wolf in Al Gore's 2000
presidential campaign. She was a consultant on women's issues and outreach to
young voters; she was not Mr. Gore's image consultant and was not involved in
his decision to wear earth-toned clothing.

An article last Sunday about politicians' choice of clothing while campaigning
referred incorrectly to the role of Naomi Wolf in Al Gore's 2000 presidential
campaign. She was a consultant on women's issues and outreach to young voters;
she was not Mr. Gore's image consultant and was not involved in his decision to
wear earth-toned clothing.

An article last Sunday about politicians' choice of clothing while campaigning
referred incorrectly to the role of Naomi Wolf in Al Gore's 2000 presidential
campaign. She was a consultant on women's issues and outreach to young voters;
she was not Mr. Gore's image consultant and was not involved in his decision to
wear earth-toned clothing.

GRAPHIC: Photos: TRAILWEAR John McCain, left, going casual in Cedar Rapids,
Iowa. David Letterman called Barack Obama's suit ''electable.'' (Photograph by
John Paul Filo/CBS
Scott Olson/Getty Images, left)(pg. ST1)
READ MY PANTSUIT Hillary Clinton eschews power suits. Railbirds note that she
has also lost her trademark hairband. (Photograph by Kevin Sanders/Associated
Press)(pg. ST2)
 VOTE FOR JEANS What do rolled-up sleeves say about John Edwards? (Photograph by
Jeremy Portje/Telegraph Herald, via Associated Press)(pg. ST2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               40 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times
                                 (Paul Krugman)

                         July 23, 2007 Monday 15:03 EST

Voulez-Vous ...a Faster Internet Hookup?;
Paul Krugman

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1784 words



HIGHLIGHT: Paul Krugman responds to readers&#8217; comments on his July 20
column, &#8220;The French Connections.&#8221; Jay Muntz, Alexandria, Va.: The
record of the U.S. in internet innovation is over the past few years has been
absolutely amazing &#8212; Gmail, MySpace.com, and the iPhone, to name a few,
are all on the cutting edge. I&#8217;m glad to [&#8230;]


Paul Krugman responds to readers' comments on his July 20 column, "The French
Connections."

Jay Muntz, Alexandria, Va.: The record of the U.S. in internet innovation is
over the past few years has been absolutely amazing -- Gmail, MySpace.com, and
the iPhone, to name a few, are all on the cutting edge.  I'm glad to hear that
the other countries have perfected Internet TV, but I just don't think that's in
the same category as what we've been doing in the U.S.  We already have a
perfectly good method for delivering TV and it has been greatly improved by DVR
technology.  The leader in DVR technology is TiVo, an American company.

Maybe ever-higher connection speeds aren't important.  Did you ever think of
that?

Paul Krugman: In the age of YouTube, you don't think connection speeds are
important? The whole point is that the U.S. is falling behind on the technology
behind the next wave of applications, not the ones we mostly use now. Sure there
are a lot of innovative people here -- but the problem is that ordinary
Americans are disadvantaged in getting to use future innovations.

Paul Dorell, Highland Park, Ill.: I find it ironic that U.S. conservatives and
libertarians support so-called free market policies that often result in
oligopolies that limit consumer choices in much the same way that the central
governments of communist nations used to dole out limited varieties of goods and
services.  At this point in time, Americans have been so brainwashed about the
evils of big "guvament," as Reagan used to call it, that they don't see how
lobbyists for large corporations would love to make our business environment
about as entrepreneurial as Cuba.  Chairman Mao would surely be impressed with
the success of these latest techniques in thought control.  Thankfully, there
are a few writers like you around to enlighten the entranced flock.

Paul Krugman: But don't forget -- the antitrust people were really, really
concerned about Whole Foods getting too much power!

Darren Staley, Millers Creek, N.C.: Your article hit me like a ton of bricks. To
make a long story short, I was laid off, became disabled, and now spend my time
taking online classes at St. John's University in Queens, N.Y., from my home in
North Carolina.

Last month, at the beginning of the first summer session, my cable Internet
access went out for over a week. As a person who depends on financial aid, I
could not afford to drop the five-week course or get behind and suffer a poor
grade.

My only other broadband option was, as you said, DSL from the only local phone
company. They worked for over a week to get me intermittent access, but now it
doesn't work at all.

Somehow, I bounced between the cable and phone services and aced the class. I am
now in the second summer session using cable access that works okay, but afraid
to turn my DSL modem that doesn't work back in because I fear another mishap, at
which time I can have the phone company back out again.

The irony of it all is, the course I am now taking is Cybercrime, where I learn
that rogue online criminals are the biggest threat to my Internet existence. I
feel pretty comfortable on that end though, as my current level of access would
annoy the cyber-criminals into submission!

Paul Krugman: I didn't mention what happens to service here when it rains
heavily -- let's hope I don't get cut off in the middle of this session.

Charles Pearson, Detroit: I have written previously, and truly find your column
to be a source of inspiration. Many in my generation -- I'm 32 -- believe that
broadband internet access is equivalent to access to roads, waterways etc. There
should be a state oriented movement to make this an essential aspect of
government, but there is overtly, at least in my region, not the case. This
matter is crucial. What can people do, on a state-by-state level, to integrate
and regard this matter essential infrastructure and not a governmentally
sanctioned monopoly?

Paul Krugman: Get a new FCC ... and fix the 1996 law.

Jason Warren, New Paltz, N.Y.: I'm a captive Verizon broadband subscriber. My
DSL connection is reliable -- such is TPC -- but going nowhere until Verizon
gets around to installing FIOS here, and there's no hint about when that might
happen. Verizon ignores queries about their plans. Time Warner offers a somewhat
faster Internet service, but its reliability, judging from my cable TV
experience, is suspect.

A few months ago, a former colleague at I.B.M. -- I'm retired -- sent me some
Verizon PowerPoint presentations about its FIOS fiber optic offering, evidently
aimed at potential business partners. The most interesting point was a bullet on
about the 29th of 30 slides. It stated that Verizon FIOS, which includes VOIP,
was a data service, and was therefore exempt from Common Carrier regulation.
Common Carrier law predates Verizon by a few hundred years, so simply abandoning
it seems significant, but that has gone without notice anywhere as far as I can
tell. I think Internet neutrality may hinge on this interpretation.

Michael Powell's F.C.C. simply abandoned the concept of regulation and handed
The Commons to the Telcos. It may be that these issues are too complex -- or
boring -- for most people, but that doesn't mean that they're not crucially
important.

Paul Krugman: I wrote about this in that 2002 article. The FCC pulled a
linguistic trick, declaring that internet access is an "information service"
rather than a common carrier, thus exempting the telcos from the regulation that
made the dialup revolution possible.

Cal French, Paso Robles, Calif.: You are right on the mark on U.S. internet
service. We live too far from town to get DSL over the phone lines. The fastest
connection we can get on dial up is 26.4 kbps. Satellite service will cost $600
to install and $70 a month, and I hear from neighbors that it's not all that
reliable.
 What you do not mention is that electric utility companies could provide
service over power lines that could be better and cheaper than phone lines.
Those of us in U.S. rural areas look with envy not at Europe and Japan, but at
our suburban and urban distant neighbors.

Paul Krugman: Believe it or not, when I moved into my house in 2003 -- we're
about 2 miles from the Princeton campus -- I had the same problem, and we
actually did get a satellite dish. It wasn't all that reliable or fast. In 2004,
I think, Verizon made DSL available to my neighborhood -- although it's much
slower than the broadband friends in Manhattan have. We only got cable available
last year. I think that's the U.S. story: even here in central New Jersey, an
hour from the world's financial capital, broadband availability has been slow in
coming and poor in quality.

Paul Box, Alice Springs, Australia: Great column.  People seem to have fallen
for the line that free-market capitalism just means letting private business do
whatever it wants whenever it wants, without bothering to question what are the
essential ingredients e.g., genuine competition in free markets that allow for
an economy to flourish.  Fortunately for the U.S. telecoms, they have boxes and
boxes of anti-French propaganda that they can pull out to distract their users
from the fact that they have a mediocre product.  I can't help but wonder if,
whenever this gets out, it will spawn more outrage than the health care issue?
Mess with people's health care or retirement and they get fatalistic.  Mess with
their entertainment or Internet access, and you've got war!

Paul Krugman: Actually, I think health care matters more. But in a peculiar way
they may be mutually supporting issues.

Bruce Cherry, Brooklyn, N.Y.: While Americans may not have the broadband access
that Europe and some Asians nations have, there may be additional reasons for
the lesser broadband usage. The U.S. is simply a harder nation to wire than
Europe, France is about twice the size of Texas. South Korea may have the
highest broadband penetration, since it is a highly urban nation, which makes
that nation easier to wire. Another factor may be illiteracy, America may have
higher rates of functional illiteracy than some European nations making boarder
adoption of the internet less likely. Illiteracy in our nation is a much more
worrisome problem than broad penetration.

Paul Krugman: South Korea is a special case, which is why I didn't talk about it
-- it's not so much the population density as the fact that so many people live
in giant apartment buildings.

But as for the rest: look, not many people live out on the Great Plains. I live
in the greater NY metro area, around 23 million people quite densely packed --
and the fact is that a lot of us don't have good access to broadband, and even
in Manhattan it's hard to get speeds that are routine in France.

Paul Warrick, Kincheloe, Mich.: The problem as expressed by AT&T executives is
that internet service providers want to use the pipeline, but not pay for its
construction.  They also want to preclude AT&T from competing with them.  AT&T
has stated it would like to make the pipeline so large that no one is advantaged
over another -- i.e., make it so there's plenty of room for everyone.

Do you see any merit to these arguments?

Paul Krugman: No, all we need is fair pricing. Whether the owner of the pipeline
should be able to compete is a question I'd like to see discussed; the problem
is how to fight the incentive to give itself unfair advantages, and stifle
competition.

John Espenshade, Littleton, N.C.: Forget great speed and price.  When we moved
here two years ago from central New Jersey, we were shocked to learn that DSL,
at any speed, did not exist at our new location at any price.  Apparently, there
are many rural areas in the U.S. with no access to broadband.  Along with the
decline of our schools and other basic infrastructure concerns, we are falling
behind in even basic access to the Internet.  Thanks for focusing on this
problem.

Paul Krugman: And it isn't even that great in central New Jersey. Seriously,
that's exactly right -- lots of America still has no access at all.

Christian VanSchayk, Santa Fe, N.M.: You have it wrong.  It was the telecom act
of 1996 -- Al Gore's brainchild -- that turned out to be a lawyer's dream and
cause monumental frustration for independents attempting to roll out broadband
service. A truly competitive policy would have declared those owning the lines
into your home a regulated monopoly, wholesalers who sell to those offering
retail telecom services. Putting everyone on an equal footing would have
stimulated competition, reduced prices, increased demand and, perhaps, avoided
the dot-com meltdown.

Paul Krugman: Wow. That's the opposite of everything I've read. But I guess Al
Gore is still the root of all evil.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               41 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Paul Krugman)

                              July 23, 2007 Monday

Voulez-Vous ...a Faster Internet Hookup?

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1784 words



HIGHLIGHT: Paul Krugman responds to readers&#8217; comments on his July 20
column, &#8220;The French Connections.&#8221; Jay Muntz, Alexandria, Va.: The
record of the U.S. in internet innovation is over the past few years has been
absolutely amazing &#8212; Gmail, MySpace.com, and the iPhone, to name a few,
are all on the cutting edge. I&#8217;m glad to [&#8230;]


Paul Krugman responds to readers' comments on his July 20 column, "The French
Connections."

Jay Muntz, Alexandria, Va.: The record of the U.S. in internet innovation is
over the past few years has been absolutely amazing - Gmail, MySpace.com, and
the iPhone, to name a few, are all on the cutting edge.  I'm glad to hear that
the other countries have perfected Internet TV, but I just don't think that's in
the same category as what we've been doing in the U.S.  We already have a
perfectly good method for delivering TV and it has been greatly improved by DVR
technology.  The leader in DVR technology is TiVo, an American company.

Maybe ever-higher connection speeds aren't important.  Did you ever think of
that?

Paul Krugman: In the age of YouTube, you don't think connection speeds are
important? The whole point is that the U.S. is falling behind on the technology
behind the next wave of applications, not the ones we mostly use now. Sure there
are a lot of innovative people here - but the problem is that ordinary Americans
are disadvantaged in getting to use future innovations.

Paul Dorell, Highland Park, Ill.: I find it ironic that U.S. conservatives and
libertarians support so-called free market policies that often result in
oligopolies that limit consumer choices in much the same way that the central
governments of communist nations used to dole out limited varieties of goods and
services.  At this point in time, Americans have been so brainwashed about the
evils of big "guvament," as Reagan used to call it, that they don't see how
lobbyists for large corporations would love to make our business environment
about as entrepreneurial as Cuba.  Chairman Mao would surely be impressed with
the success of these latest techniques in thought control.  Thankfully, there
are a few writers like you around to enlighten the entranced flock.

Paul Krugman: But don't forget - the antitrust people were really, really
concerned about Whole Foods getting too much power!

Darren Staley, Millers Creek, N.C.: Your article hit me like a ton of bricks. To
make a long story short, I was laid off, became disabled, and now spend my time
taking online classes at St. John's University in Queens, N.Y., from my home in
North Carolina.

Last month, at the beginning of the first summer session, my cable Internet
access went out for over a week. As a person who depends on financial aid, I
could not afford to drop the five-week course or get behind and suffer a poor
grade.

My only other broadband option was, as you said, DSL from the only local phone
company. They worked for over a week to get me intermittent access, but now it
doesn't work at all.

Somehow, I bounced between the cable and phone services and aced the class. I am
now in the second summer session using cable access that works okay, but afraid
to turn my DSL modem that doesn't work back in because I fear another mishap, at
which time I can have the phone company back out again.

The irony of it all is, the course I am now taking is Cybercrime, where I learn
that rogue online criminals are the biggest threat to my Internet existence. I
feel pretty comfortable on that end though, as my current level of access would
annoy the cyber-criminals into submission!

Paul Krugman: I didn't mention what happens to service here when it rains
heavily - let's hope I don't get cut off in the middle of this session.

Charles Pearson, Detroit: I have written previously, and truly find your column
to be a source of inspiration. Many in my generation - I'm 32 - believe that
broadband internet access is equivalent to access to roads, waterways etc. There
should be a state oriented movement to make this an essential aspect of
government, but there is overtly, at least in my region, not the case. This
matter is crucial. What can people do, on a state-by-state level, to integrate
and regard this matter essential infrastructure and not a governmentally
sanctioned monopoly?

Paul Krugman: Get a new FCC ... and fix the 1996 law.

Jason Warren, New Paltz, N.Y.: I'm a captive Verizon broadband subscriber. My
DSL connection is reliable - such is TPC - but going nowhere until Verizon gets
around to installing FIOS here, and there's no hint about when that might
happen. Verizon ignores queries about their plans. Time Warner offers a somewhat
faster Internet service, but its reliability, judging from my cable TV
experience, is suspect.

A few months ago, a former colleague at I.B.M. - I'm retired - sent me some
Verizon PowerPoint presentations about its FIOS fiber optic offering, evidently
aimed at potential business partners. The most interesting point was a bullet on
about the 29th of 30 slides. It stated that Verizon FIOS, which includes VOIP,
was a data service, and was therefore exempt from Common Carrier regulation.
Common Carrier law predates Verizon by a few hundred years, so simply abandoning
it seems significant, but that has gone without notice anywhere as far as I can
tell. I think Internet neutrality may hinge on this interpretation.

Michael Powell's F.C.C. simply abandoned the concept of regulation and handed
The Commons to the Telcos. It may be that these issues are too complex - or
boring - for most people, but that doesn't mean that they're not crucially
important.

Paul Krugman: I wrote about this in that 2002 article. The FCC pulled a
linguistic trick, declaring that internet access is an "information service"
rather than a common carrier, thus exempting the telcos from the regulation that
made the dialup revolution possible.

Cal French, Paso Robles, Calif.: You are right on the mark on U.S. internet
service. We live too far from town to get DSL over the phone lines. The fastest
connection we can get on dial up is 26.4 kbps. Satellite service will cost $600
to install and $70 a month, and I hear from neighbors that it's not all that
reliable.
 What you do not mention is that electric utility companies could provide
service over power lines that could be better and cheaper than phone lines.
Those of us in U.S. rural areas look with envy not at Europe and Japan, but at
our suburban and urban distant neighbors.

Paul Krugman: Believe it or not, when I moved into my house in 2003 - we're
about 2 miles from the Princeton campus - I had the same problem, and we
actually did get a satellite dish. It wasn't all that reliable or fast. In 2004,
I think, Verizon made DSL available to my neighborhood - although it's much
slower than the broadband friends in Manhattan have. We only got cable available
last year. I think that's the U.S. story: even here in central New Jersey, an
hour from the world's financial capital, broadband availability has been slow in
coming and poor in quality.

Paul Box, Alice Springs, Australia: Great column.  People seem to have fallen
for the line that free-market capitalism just means letting private business do
whatever it wants whenever it wants, without bothering to question what are the
essential ingredients e.g., genuine competition in free markets that allow for
an economy to flourish.  Fortunately for the U.S. telecoms, they have boxes and
boxes of anti-French propaganda that they can pull out to distract their users
from the fact that they have a mediocre product.  I can't help but wonder if,
whenever this gets out, it will spawn more outrage than the health care issue?
Mess with people's health care or retirement and they get fatalistic.  Mess with
their entertainment or Internet access, and you've got war!

Paul Krugman: Actually, I think health care matters more. But in a peculiar way
they may be mutually supporting issues.

Bruce Cherry, Brooklyn, N.Y.: While Americans may not have the broadband access
that Europe and some Asians nations have, there may be additional reasons for
the lesser broadband usage. The U.S. is simply a harder nation to wire than
Europe, France is about twice the size of Texas. South Korea may have the
highest broadband penetration, since it is a highly urban nation, which makes
that nation easier to wire. Another factor may be illiteracy, America may have
higher rates of functional illiteracy than some European nations making boarder
adoption of the internet less likely. Illiteracy in our nation is a much more
worrisome problem than broad penetration.

Paul Krugman: South Korea is a special case, which is why I didn't talk about it
- it's not so much the population density as the fact that so many people live
in giant apartment buildings.

But as for the rest: look, not many people live out on the Great Plains. I live
in the greater NY metro area, around 23 million people quite densely packed -
and the fact is that a lot of us don't have good access to broadband, and even
in Manhattan it's hard to get speeds that are routine in France.

Paul Warrick, Kincheloe, Mich.: The problem as expressed by AT&T executives is
that internet service providers want to use the pipeline, but not pay for its
construction.  They also want to preclude AT&T from competing with them.  AT&T
has stated it would like to make the pipeline so large that no one is advantaged
over another - i.e., make it so there's plenty of room for everyone.

Do you see any merit to these arguments?

Paul Krugman: No, all we need is fair pricing. Whether the owner of the pipeline
should be able to compete is a question I'd like to see discussed; the problem
is how to fight the incentive to give itself unfair advantages, and stifle
competition.

John Espenshade, Littleton, N.C.: Forget great speed and price.  When we moved
here two years ago from central New Jersey, we were shocked to learn that DSL,
at any speed, did not exist at our new location at any price.  Apparently, there
are many rural areas in the U.S. with no access to broadband.  Along with the
decline of our schools and other basic infrastructure concerns, we are falling
behind in even basic access to the Internet.  Thanks for focusing on this
problem.

Paul Krugman: And it isn't even that great in central New Jersey. Seriously,
that's exactly right - lots of America still has no access at all.

Christian VanSchayk, Santa Fe, N.M.: You have it wrong.  It was the telecom act
of 1996 - Al Gore's brainchild - that turned out to be a lawyer's dream and
cause monumental frustration for independents attempting to roll out broadband
service. A truly competitive policy would have declared those owning the lines
into your home a regulated monopoly, wholesalers who sell to those offering
retail telecom services. Putting everyone on an equal footing would have
stimulated competition, reduced prices, increased demand and, perhaps, avoided
the dot-com meltdown.

Paul Krugman: Wow. That's the opposite of everything I've read. But I guess Al
Gore is still the root of all evil.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               42 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 27, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Letters The Military We Need

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 159 words


To the Editor:

In ''A Reality Check on Military Spending'' (editorial, July 21), you categorize
the Air Force's F/A-22 stealth fighter and the Navy's DDG-1000 destroyer and
Virginia class attack submarine as ''gold-plated marvels'' siphoning off funds
from ground forces.

This myopic emotionalism oversimplifies the realities of national security.
History shows that the next war will not be like the last one. For sure, we will
not prevail without having air, sea, space and, now, cyber superiority.

While it's true that we must spend more to make sure our ground forces have what
they need to be dominant in any ground fight, we shouldn't mortgage away our
superiority in the other domains.

We need overwhelming joint combat power at the point of attack -- wherever and
whenever that attack occurs.

We are at war, and war costs a lot of money.  Gregory S. Martin

Woodland Park, Colo., July 25, 2007

The writer is a retired Air Force general.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               43 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 27, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Buoyed by Hollywood and Camera Sales, Sony Doubles Profit

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 784 words

DATELINE: TOKYO, July 26


Sony said Thursday that its fiscal first-quarter profit doubled as strong
digital camera sales and the box-office success of ''Spider-Man 3'' helped
offset losses from the PlayStation 3 game console.

Net profit in the three months that ended June 30 was 66.5 billion yen, or $554
million, up 105.9 percent from 32.3 billion yen in the period a year earlier.
The gain was in stark contrast to the January-to-March quarter, when Sony
reported its worst quarterly loss in four years.

The most recent results are the latest sign that long-struggling Sony is faring
better against South Korean and Chinese rivals, which have taken global market
share from Japan's once-proud electronics industry with lower-cost products.

The rosy picture was marred by the poor performance of PlayStation 3, a flashy
but expensive machine that Sony had been counting on to be a global hit. Sony
said the loss at its games division grew to 29.2 billion yen from 26.8 billion
yen in the quarter a year earlier.

Sony reported robust sales of its Bravia flat-panel televisions and Cyber-shot
cameras, evidence that it was persuading world consumers to pay more for the
Sony brand. Over all, revenue rose 13 percent, to 1.98 trillion yen.

Sony also said that it had benefited from a favorable yen exchange rate and the
cost-cutting efforts of its first chief executive who is not from Japan, the
Welsh-born Howard Stringer.

Since taking over two years ago, Mr. Stringer has eliminated jobs, closed
factories and shed unprofitable businesses like a Japanese-based chain of
Parisian restaurants.

Mr. Stringer has also pledged to raise Sony's operating profit margin to 5
percent this year, a goal the company reached in the first-quarter results. The
target of 5 percent is low by American standards but about par for Japan's less
shareholder-friendly corporations. But even reaching that threshold represented
a big improvement for Sony, which entered its recent slump four years ago with
losses that sent Japan's stock market into a tailspin.

Reviving Sony's electronics division, which accounts for about three-quarters of
the company's sales, has been central to Mr. Stringer's turnaround strategy.
Sony had been losing ground not only to low-cost Asian competitors but also to
nimble rivals like Apple, whose iPod ended Sony's two-decade dominance of
portable music players.

Sony's chief financial officer, Nobuyuki Oneda, told reporters Thursday that the
company still expected to lose money this year on televisions, a
bread-and-butter product for Sony. Sony was late to switch from TV tubes to
newer technologies like liquid-crystal displays, falling behind two of its South
Korean rivals, Samsung and LG.

Still, Sony said it had managed to pare its losses in televisions while
recording strong gains in sales of cameras and camcorders. A weaker yen, which
drove down the price of Sony's products in overseas markets, also lifted sales,
the company said. Sony said Thursday that quarterly profit at its electronics
division jumped 77.3 percent, to 84.1 billion yen.

Sony Ericsson, Sony's cellphone joint venture with Ericsson of Sweden, posted a
profit of 220 million euros, or $302 million. Sony's Hollywood studio turned a
profit of 3.3 billion yen, improving from a loss last year. Sony credited the
popularity of ''Spider-Man 3'' and the latest James Bond film, ''Casino
Royale.''

For the current fiscal year, ending March 2008, Sony kept its forecast for net
profit unchanged at 320 billion yen.

Analysts said Sony appeared to have misread the direction of the video game
market, surrendering an early lead to Nintendo's cheaper and simpler Wii
console. The two consoles went on sale late last year, a year after another
competitor, Microsoft, introduced its Xbox 360.

Sony invested at least $2 billion to develop the PlayStation 3, loading it with
the company's newest technologies, like the Blu-Ray DVD player and the Cell
high-speed processor.

The console's price in the United States remains twice as high as Wii's, even
after Sony cut it by $100, to $499, earlier this month.

The Nintendo console has also used easy-to-play games and educational software
to appeal to consumers outside the game industry's usual demographic of males in
their teens and 20s.

Sony said it sold 710,000 PlayStation 3 consoles in the quarter -- compared with
the 3.43 million Wii consoles that Nintendo said it sold in the same period.

On Wednesday, Nintendo reported a fivefold increase in its quarterly profit.

''It is looking harder and harder for Sony to catch up with Wii,'' said Masashi
Morita, an analyst at Okasan Securities in Tokyo. ''Nintendo has grabbed the
lead and shows no intention of letting go.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The popularity of Sony's ''Spider-Man 3'' helped to offset the
company's losses on the PlayStation 3.  (Photograph by Columbia Pictures).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               44 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 6, 2007 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Old Issues of Playboy and Rolling Stone Will Be Available on DVDs

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 908 words


Starting next month, people who enjoy fine writing -- oh, and nude photography
-- will be able to order a boxed collection of some of Hugh M. Hefner's very
favorite issues of Playboy, all to appreciate from the comfort of their own
mansion.

Bondi Digital Publishing of New York, a three-year-old company that publishes
magazine archives in digital editions, will be putting out a DVD-ROM set with
page-by-page reproductions of all 72 issues of Playboy published in the 1950s.
In addition to the magazine's first issue (of December 1953, with Marilyn Monroe
on the cover and semi-naked in the centerfold) the set features fiction by
writers like Jack Kerouac, John Steinbeck and Ray Bradbury, cartoons by LeRoy
Neiman, and photographs of Brigitte Bardot and Bettie Page.

Separately, Bondi will offer a DVD archive of Rolling Stone, which will include
photographs by Annie Leibovitz as well as articles by writers like Lester Bangs
and Cameron Crowe. The boxed set will have 1,024 issues of Rolling Stone from
over the decades; the magazine turns 40 this year.

Although DVD technology has been around for more than 10 years, few magazines
have used it to reproduce their archives. Those that have include The New
Yorker, which published its archives in 2005 using software produced by Bondi;
Mad Magazine, which published its archives on DVD last year, and Mother Jones,
which will publish its first 30 years of issues on DVD next month.

Mr. Hefner predicted in a telephone interview that the Playboy DVD set would
sell better than the others. ''Playboy is so ideally suited for this purpose,''
he said. ''It is not only the kind of text and cartoons that you get in The New
Yorker, you also get the photos, images. Nobody published more delicious
advertising.''

Joe Levy, executive editor of Rolling Stone, said he expected his magazine's
DVDs would appeal to both ''longtime and new readers.'' He added, ''To music
fans, 40 years of the magazine's music coverage is truly monumental, and to fans
of Hunter S. Thompson and 'Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas,' the idea that you'll
be able to read everything he wrote for Rolling Stone is exciting.''

The Playboy DVD will come with a paperback book that Mr. Hefner edited, as well
as a facsimile of Playboy's first issue, which has never before been fully
reproduced. The book will have a copy of a receipt for $1,000 that Mr. Hefner
received in September 1953 from his mother, Grace, for ''one-thousand (1000)
Class A Shares in HMH Publishing Co, Inc.'' and a letter  -- signed ''Love,
Hugh'' -- that he sent to his parents. In it, he calls their support ''just
about the nicest thing you have ever done for me,'' especially, since ''much of
the magazine will not be material that you fully, personally approve of.''

Also reproduced for the first time is a ledger page, in Mr. Hefner's
handwriting, listing his initial expenses, which included a payment to a Chicago
calendar company for the photographs of Ms. Monroe.

The DVD sets will go on presale next month at covertocover.com, and be sold
elsewhere online and in stores in November. The Rolling Stone set -- which
includes a one-year subscription to the magazine -- is $125, while the Playboy
set is $100.

Don Nicholas, managing director of the Mequoda Group, a digital publishing
consulting company in Bristol, R.I., said digital publishing of archives had not
caught on because magazines ''don't think about repurposing their content as a
primary way to generate revenue.''

He said the ability to reformat content and store it on DVDs ''has become much
easier and cheaper in the last couple of years. Given there are probably several
hundred consumer magazines that have a collectible aspect to them, I expect
you'll see more and more magazines come out with archives on DVD.''

Playboy was a pioneer in the magazine industry when it started its Web site in
1994 and Cyber Club, which sells online memberships to view nude photos, in
1995.  Mr. Hefner said that the company agreed to publish its archives on DVD
because the magazine ''probably more than any other really reflects the changes
in the last half century, in images and pop culture and writing.''

He added, ''To make that available not only is a business opportunity, but an
opportunity of expanding the brand in general. The nature of publishing and
entertainment has changed, and taking advantage of the new technology is from
the very beginning what we've been all about.''

Mr. Hefner predicted the archives would appeal ''both to people of nostalgia of
a certain age, who will remember their own particular decades,'' and to ''people
who missed it, the fascination with retro for younger generations.''

He said editing the companion book was ''a real nostalgia rush for me, it takes
me back to those wonderful beginnings.'' Playboy, Mr. Hefner said, ''went
through some very, very difficult times in the conservative '80s and  early
'90s,'' but then ''half a dozen years or so ago, the brand became hugely popular
again.''

Bondi plans to publish new DVD sets of Playboy issues , from the 1960s through
the present, from 2008 through 2010. Asked which decade of Playboy was his
favorite, Mr. Hefner cited the first three.

''To some extent, it's like children,'' he said. ''What are you going to say?
Does one have a favorite child? I confess to a more personal interconnection to
the oldest children, because it was so much of an intimate experience for me
then.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 7, 2007



CORRECTION: An article in Business Day yesterday about the coming release of
boxed DVD sets of Playboy and Rolling Stone magazines, referred imprecisely to a
Web site that will sell the DVDs. Although the site, covertocover.com, will take
preorders, it will not do so until Sept. 1; it is not yet online.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At left, an issue of Rolling Stone from November 1967 with John
Lennon on the cover and a Playboy cover from July  1958. Both issues will be
available in DVD sets, above.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               45 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                             August 13, 2007 Monday

Report Finds Queens Library No. 1 in Circulation

BYLINE: SEWELL CHAN

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 645 words



HIGHLIGHT: A new report ranks the Queens Library No. 1 in the country in
circulation.


The Queens Library is the No. 1 library system in the United States by
circulation, having loaned 20.2 million items in the 2006 fiscal year, according
to a new report by the Public Library Association.

The Multnomah County Public Library, which serves Portland, Ore., was second in
the report, with 19.6 million items loaned.

The Queens Library serves about 2.2 million residents, fewer than New York
City's other two public library systems, the Brooklyn Public Library and the New
York Public Library, which serves Manhattan, the Bronx and Staten Island.

In the fiscal year that ended on June 30, 2006, the New York Public Library
circulated 15,886,710 items and the Brooklyn Public Library loaned 15,923,239
items, compared with 20,223,787 in Queens. (The Queens system said it exceeded
21 million items in the most recent fiscal year, which ended on June 30 of this
year, but comparisons with the other systems are not yet available.)

Why Queens has so many library users is not quite clear. The borough is one of
the most ethnically diverse counties in the country, and many of the library's
books, DVD's and other materials are in a variety of foreign languages. In a
news release, the library offered this rather journalistic description of the
scene outside its central branch, in Jamaica:

On Monday morning around 70 people crowded the doors waiting for the Central
Library to open. "The traffic is light in the summer," said the regular on-duty
man. They rushed inside, most making a bee-line for the Cyber Center. All 48
workstations were instantly occupied.

"I came to e-mail to my sister in Romania," said Virginia from Ozone Park.

A young South Asian mother wearing a bright salwar kameez is there to sign her
daughter up for a library card. She is brand new in the neighborhood. Her child
was not yet three years old. A young black man in fashionably oversized jeans
and a T with a full backpack said, "I didn't have anything to do right now. I
hope I can use the computer for a while, and then read a book." He came all the
way from Far Rockaway because he attends Jamaica High School. Angela from
Jamaica was in the library to make photocopies while her daughter finished
school work. Angela has a forthright, business-like manner and broadcast-worthy
diction. Angela and her daughter have been library regulars since her daughter
was a toddler. The daughter will begin freshman year at college later this
month.

The library has 63 branches and owns 6.6 million books and other items for loan.
Its staff answers 11.5 million question a year, in person, and by phone, e-mail
and fax.

"Queens Library's greatest asset goes home at night," said Thomas W. Galante,
the library system's director. "They are genuinely concerned about helping
customers access everything the library has to offer."

As this blog reported, a study by the city's Independent Budget Office last
month found that the city's three library systems receive city financing that is
roughly proportional to the total size of the populations they serve. However,
the report found that Queens has so many library users that its library system
receives considerably less subsidy per user than the other two systems.

Joanne King, a library spokeswoman, said that the system's total circulation
would have been even higher in the 2006 fiscal year if some of the branches had
not been closed part of the year for renovation.

Generally, Ms. King said, suburban library systems, where users can drive to the
library, have higher circulation than inner-city libraries where readers have to
lug arm loads of books.

Customers in suburban systems "tend to take out armloads of books, even if they
don't seriously want or need them, and then sort through them at home," Ms. King
said. "In Queens, most library users are carrying their materials on foot or
mass transit. Every item they take is a serious choice."

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            August 16, 2007 Thursday

Skype's Bad Day

BYLINE: BRAD STONE

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 260 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Internet phone service Skype suffers an outage and may stay down
for a whole day.


The massively popular Internet phone service Skype has been down all morning.
Its Web site says that engineers have discovered a software problem which will
be fixed in 12 to 24 hours. That is a disastrously long time for a service that
eBay, owner of Skype, has been pitching as a core business communication tool to
companies and stay-at-home professionals. In fact last year, eBay itself
revealed it would begin weaning itself off landlines and instead use Skype as
its primary phone service. Not surprisingly, I've been unable to raise anyone at
eBay all morning.

How are you suffering from the Skype outage? Let us know in the comments below.

Update: Skype just released a new statement which for you non-techies may not
clear much up: "As we continue to work hard at resolving the problem, we wanted
to dispel some of the concerns that you may have. The Skype system has not
crashed or been victim of a cyber attack. We love our customers too much to let
that happen. This problem occurred because of a deficiency in an algorithm
within Skype networking software.  This controls the interaction between the
user's own Skype client and the rest of the Skype network."

Friday a.m. update: Skype still appears to be having some trouble - more than a
day after it first went down. Yesterday we connected with Kurt Sauer, Skype's
chief security officer, who said the company still didn't know why an
algorithmic error in the Skype client software cascaded into a network
breakdown. He also said it was possible the problems would not be completely
fixed today.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 17, 2007 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Where Concept of a 'Pet Rock' Has Reached Its Apex

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; HYDERABAD JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 913 words

DATELINE: HYDERABAD, India


They rise unexpectedly between glass office towers or at the base of a
12th-century fort. Sometimes they are perched precariously, one on top of
another, as though they were the left-behind playthings of a civilization of
giants. More and more, they are broken into bits, first by dynamite, then
painstakingly by hand, so that the earth can be flattened and new office towers
can come up.

They are the primordial rocks that litter this boomtown. Over the years they
have earned nicknames that hint at their improbable shapes: Bear's Nose, Stone
Heart. Some have become Hindu temples and Sufi Muslim shrines; others, on
occasion, have become billboards.

Today, as Hyderabad builds at breakneck speed, the rocks have become the focus
of one of India's many emerging citizens movements. The Society to Save Rocks,
as it is called, aims to protect the geological heritage of the city against the
swift march of urban development.

The rocks, formed at least two billion years ago, remain a peculiar feature of
the vast tableland, the Deccan Plateau, where Hyderabad sits.

Boomtowns across India have spawned movements of similar vigilance, part of a
tiny but visible trend among middle-class Indians to save something of the
natural or cultural heritage of their cities against the onslaught of the new.

In Chennai, on the southern coast, neighborhood groups have mounted campaigns to
restore Hindu temples' traditional water tanks, which have either been built
over or fallen into disrepair, depriving the city of its water storage areas and
worsening floods during the monsoon.

In Mumbai, formerly Bombay, preservationists have campaigned to save
colonial-era buildings, and in New Delhi, a government plan to widen a road for
big new buses has encountered a movement to save the imperiled trees in its
path.

Of course, these first hints of resistance conflict with urban India's other
needs and desires.

To developers in Hyderabad, for instance, the rocks, mostly granite and granite
gneiss, are encumbrances that must be cleared for construction projects.

Hyderabad's population has nearly doubled in 25 years, to an estimated 4.2
million. Once a quaint city of monuments, it is now one of India's new
technology hubs. Developers are rushing to erect office towers and multiplex
cinemas. The building frenzy is visible in every corner.

In one of those corners, an ambitious 110-acre development called Lanco Hills is
under way, an office park for technology companies, high-rise apartments, two
hotels and one of the largest shopping malls in the country. There are no
boulders anywhere in its promotional materials, as though the landscape had been
scrubbed clean.

In fact, that is exactly what is happening, and at a hefty cost to the
developer. On a company tour of the site one afternoon, a drilling machine
ground its way through the large boulders, cutting holes for dynamite. Once the
bigger boulders were dislodged, the process would start again on smaller
boulders, until the rocks were small enough to go into a crushing machine and
turned into a fine powder used to fortify concrete.

On a summer Sunday afternoon, Vasu Nugala and C. J. Rao stood on a bluff
overlooking the construction site, watching machines gouge out the underside of
the hill, as though carving a side of roast beef. The bluff itself, home to a
14th-century Muslim shrine, was not endangered, and on this day families came to
picnic and worship, huddling under outcroppings of the giant boulders when the
dark rain clouds burst.

Neither Mr. Nugala nor Mr. Rao were averse to the changes sweeping through
Hyderabad. In fact, they were part of it -- Mr. Nugala being a software man,
recently returned from Tucson, Ariz., Mr. Rao being in real estate.

''I know we're not going to stop the development,'' Mr. Nugala said. ''I just
hope we ease up a little.''

Mr. Rao added, ''These rocks can't go up again once they are gone.''

Their campaign has succeeded in creating a rock park in the heart of the city,
overlooking a lake. It has also led to the designation of nine rock formations
as heritage sites, including the Bear's Nose, which is to sit smack inside a
proposed hotel in what is known as the Cyber City neighborhood. Some of the
technology campuses have artfully incorporated the boulders into their design,
transforming them into rock gardens.

But enforcing the heritage designation requires constant vigilance by citizens
groups, said Narendra Luther, a longtime member of the Society to Save Rocks. He
should know; he spent his entire career in the Indian government bureaucracy.
''We are very poor in implementing our laws,'' he said.

Mr. Luther lives with the rocks. One dominates his living room, forming a wall
that divides the sitting area from the dining room. The same boulder shoots up
through the ceiling into the apartment upstairs, where Mr. Luther's son lives
with his own family. His 5-year-old grandson, Rishab, scrambles up and down its
steep smooth side.

''I came in 1958. I was fascinated by it,'' Mr. Luther said of his obsession
with the city's ancient boulders. ''First, the sheer presence of the rocks and
the fantastic shapes, sometimes defying gravity, one right over the other. It
looks like somebody has placed it there and you can give it a slap and it will
fall.''

Developers have approached with sweet offers for his house, which occupies a big
plot of land in one of the best neighborhoods in town. He has brushed them off.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 18, 2007



CORRECTION: A map with a foreign journal yesterday about citizen efforts to save
the huge boulders of Hyderabad, India, from destruction during a development
boom mislabeled in some copies a city in the southeast. It is Chennai, not
Mumbai.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The great granite boulders scattered across the Deccan Plateau
gain their prominence from outcroppings in Hyderabad, where residents are trying
to save them from developers' dynamite. Such middle-class citizens preservation
movements are a new phenomenon in India.
 At construction sites in booming Hyderabad, the rugged rocks are being turned
into gravel to make way for high-tech offices. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. ADAMS HUGGINS
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Map shows the location of Hyderabad, India

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               48 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 19, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Back From the Future

BYLINE: Interview by DEBORAH SOLOMON

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; QUESTIONS FOR WILLIAM GIBSON; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 571 words


Although you're known as the father of cyberpunk science fiction, your new
novel, ''Spook Country,'' is set in the post-9/11 present and endows the whole
culture with a noirish gloom. At what point did American life become stranger
than science fiction? If I had gone into a publisher in New York in 1981 and
told them I wanted to write a novel that is set in a world where the climate is
out of whack and Mideast terrorists have hijacked airplanes and in response the
U.S. has invaded the wrong country -- it's too much. Contemporary reality is
like an overlapping set of dire science-fictional scenarios.

Your main character is a female journalist who's researching ''locative art,''
which is basically mural-making that is so cutting-edge you can't even see it
except digitally. Where did you get that idea? I wanted something that was
lowbrow, like something in Juxtapoz magazine. It's the magazine of the
lowbrow-art movement. It's actually the only art magazine that I read on a
regular basis.

I'm not sure that's something to boast about. I'm a very pro-art kind of guy,
but I'm not that visually literate. My inner redneck looks at something and
says, ''Oh, that's so cool.'' At home I bump into a couple of artists. When I
was starting to write, two of my neighbors were Jeff Wall and Rodney Graham.

This is in Vancouver, British Columbia. Did you, as a transplanted American,
move to Canada to escape the draft? I was always registered for the draft. Like
a lot of people in the Bush administration, somehow I wasn't called.

What leads a novelist to dedicate himself to imagining the future as opposed to
the vanished past? I wanted to immigrate to the future as a boy because all the
physical artifacts around me were very old. I wanted the future that was pouring
out of the television screen.

Television no longer represents the future? No, television is going away. It's
going to be like radio. It's going to be appropriated into the realm of the
digital.

You had an uncommonly sad childhood, losing your father to a choking accident
when you were 6. It was a pre-Heimlich restaurant. He was away on a business
trip. My mother never told me. She couldn't tell me. She had someone else tell
me.

Then your mom died suddenly when you were in your teens. Loss is not without its
curious advantages for the artist. Major traumatic breaks are pretty common in
the biographies of artists I respect. Not that I'd wish that on anyone.

Do you feel that you've transcended the science-fiction genre in your work? My
roots are in a genre. That is the funny thing. Novels are called novels because,
ideally, they provide a novel experience. But in genre, you're sort of buying a
guarantee that you are going to have essentially the same experience again and
again. It's a novel. It won't be too novel. Don't worry.

Are you sick of being known as the writer who coined the word ''cyberspace'' in
1982? I think I'd miss it if it went way.

What is the derivation of the word? ''Cyber'' is from the Greek word for
navigator. Norbert Wiener coined ''cybernetics'' around 1948 to denote the study
of ''teleological mechanisms.''

What is your hope for the future? That we'll turn out not to have already
terminally soiled our unthinkably rare and lovely little sphere of water and
air.

Isn't that a rather perfumed way to describe the earth? I suppose it's a bit
wet, but I'm from Vancouver. Green streak a mile wide.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW NAGATA)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               49 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 24, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Art in Review

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1723 words


MARCEL BROODTHAERS

Decor: A Conquest

Michael Werner Gallery

4 East 77th Street

Manhattan

Through Sept. 29

For an arcane pre-Conceptualist who made sculptures from detritus like mussel
shells, the Belgian artist Marcel Broodthaers (1924-76) can get fairly heavy. So
it is with the excessively object-oriented ''Decor: A Conquest,'' a two-room
installation piece first shown at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London
in 1974 and recreated here in its first showing in the United States.

In one room two cannons and a stuffed python share the space with some potted
plants; two red velvet side chairs and two silver-plated candelabras of
Edwardian vintage; two wood barrels, labeled ''gin'' and ''rum''; and a table
covered in green felt on which a life-size plastic lobster and crab hover over a
miniature deck of cards. Life at the front or on the range or in the jungle, a
manly existence, is evoked.

In the second room a set of patio furniture -- white table, striped chairs,
striped umbrella -- dominates, but the suggestion of leisure is contradicted by
a large assortment of handguns and automatic rifles resting in or on two
glass-fronted wall vitrines. Coups in the tropics, Mafiosi on holiday or drug
deals come to mind.

Further contrasts present themselves, both within and between rooms: war and
peace, then and now, city and resort, regulars and guerrillas, men's clubs and
implicitly female poolside vacations with children. Many of these differences
are bridged by the half-finished jigsaw puzzle of the Battle of Waterloo spread
out on the patio table. (While installed in London, these ensembles, which
include movie lights with red or green gels, served as sets for Mr.
Broodthaers's film ''The Battle of Waterloo,'' which will be shown at Anthology
Film Archives on Sept. 4.)

There are two ways to take this work. From one angle it is an artwork as
fetishized as anything made by the hand of an artist. Without the Broodthaers
name, it is rather drab, just a bunch of uninspiring stuff. From another angle
it is a seminal work of appropriation installation, straight out of Duchamp's
ready-mades and en route to any number of 1980s ensemble assemblers, like
Barbara Bloom and Karen Kilimnik. Predating the rage for elaborate period-room
installations of found objects, ''Decor'' looks familiar because of its
descendants, which have taught us to read its arrangements like motifs in a
painting.

It may be best to see this piece from both sides now. While consistent with Mr.
Broodthaers's fascination with museums and display, ''Decor'' lacks the sense of
delicacy and touch of much of his other work. A major statement, it nonetheless
feels out of character. It is his but not him, and certainly not him at his
best. ROBERTA SMITH

THROUGH THE LIES OF YOUR DARK, DARK EYES

Alain Dister: Elegy for the Summer of Love

Envoy

131 Chrystie Street

Lower East Side

Through Sept. 1

It might not have been planned, but both of the shows at Envoy have something to
say about the role of aesthetics in youth movements.

''Through the Lies of Your Dark, Dark Eyes,'' put together by Manuel Cirauqui
and the Thorstein Foundation, is like an epilogue to the art of the last decade,
which borrowed heavily from Gothic music and literature. Here, according to the
gallery release, the doom and gloom aesthetic is tempered in objects that
explore the ''sweeter side of sinister,'' ''bits of sentiment behind deception''
and ''calm in endless despair.''

Works like Susanna Vapnek's drawings of fires in Simi Valley, Calif.; John
O'Hara's collages arranged on the wall based on the toss of a horseshoe; Cedric
Sartore's druggy Cibachromes; the collective France Fiction's Victorian-looking
sculptural tableau; and Ben Grieme's photographs of a Kentucky cemetery and an
accident site outside a Mormon church in Brooklyn expand upon the sensibility of
artists like Banks Violette, Sue de Beer and David Altmejd. Mr. Grieme's fuzzy
photograph of the band Sunn 0))) links him even more closely with Mr. Violette.

Alain Dister's photographs were taken in New York and California in 1967 and
1968, before most of these artists were born. You might be tempted, as I was, to
feel they rely too much on the good looks and canny fashion sense of his
counterculture subjects.

But Mr. Dister was on to something in identifying how youth movements are
characterized by -- even find substance in -- style: the black lipstick and
eyeliner of the Goth, or here the barefoot dandy strutting down Haight Street in
San Francisco. (Mr. Dister later went on to photograph musicians like Jimi
Hendrix, Pink Floyd and Patti Smith.)

And while the dark consequences of ''Through the Lies'' are mostly theoretical,
Mr. Dister's photographs contain a kernel of unshakable reality. Among them is
an image of Charles Manson (unidentified, but unmistakable) sitting on Haight
Street with a bottle of Coke. Like everyone else in Mr. Dister's photographs, he
looks pretty mellow and harmless. MARTHA SCHWENDENER

MICROWAVE, FIVE

Josee Bienvenu

529 West 20th Street, Chelsea

Through Sept. 15

A public service announcement: If you're an artist looking for a gallery, and
you make large, slick objects or hire others to fabricate your work, Josee
Bienvenu is not for you.

Where most galleries reveal their ''program,'' or general slant, with more or
less candor in summer group shows, ''microwave, five'' is like a manifesto. Make
that an updated and refined manifesto, since this is the fifth installment of a
show Ms. Bienvenu first organized when she was working at 123 Watts Gallery.

A few veteran artists who work with obsessive precision, like Yayoi Kusama and
Tom Friedman, offer some historical grounding; a deceptively slipshod ''Box''
relief by Richard Tuttle offers some nuance.

Among the younger generation of artists Ms. Bienvenu actually represents is Ken
Solomon, who appeared in earlier editions of ''microwave.'' Mr. Solomon's
hand-painted postage stamps sent through the mail to the gallery are here, as
well as a trompe l'oeil page of notebook paper, made by slicing apart dollar
bills and gluing together the blank areas.

Other specimens of the meticulous, handmade aesthetic include Jacob El Hanani's
ink on paper rendering of a basket pattern, Adam Fowler's drawing made by
layering carved-up sheets of paper, Xawery Wolski's needle perforating paper
reliefs and Gloria Ortiz-Hernandez's deep chiaroscuro charcoal and pencil
abstraction.

The one artist missing is Yuken Teruya, maker of virtuosic tree sculptures cut
out of paper bags and one of Ms. Bienvenu's most popular artists. You could
argue that ''microwave, five'' leans more toward two-dimensional than
three-dimensional work, but when I asked about Mr. Teruya at the front desk, it
appeared I wasn't the first to pose the question. MARTHA SCHWENDENER

PACKEDSOCKDRAWER

Feature Inc.

530 West 25th Street, Chelsea

Through Sept. 20

''packedsockdrawer'' is a strong candidate for best summer show title of 2007,
even if the recently closed ''NeoIntegrity'' at Derek Eller, with nearly 200
artists, felt more like a packed sock drawer.

The compactness of this show's title is echoed in both the works and the
installation. Steve McCall's handsomely color-coordinated, abstract biomorphic
paintings are hung, two on each of the four walls, next to David Moreno's
photographs with their tight, concentric compositions made by spinning a
35-millimeter camera on a tripod for the length of a shutter click.

Gary Batty's minute filigrees drawn on thick, cream-colored, handmade paper are
here, also two per wall, alongside Tamara Zahaykevich's petite, colorful
wall-mounted sculptures made with foam board, tape and glue.

The caveat with a great show title is that you're tempted to stretch it to the
work, which means in this case that footwear becomes the leitmotif. (I won't go
there.) Nonetheless, in all of the works there is an earnest, self-effacing
fidelity to craft and construction that feels fitting since, no matter how
advanced the materials or sophisticated the fabrication, a sock still remains
just a humble sock. MARTHA SCHWENDENER

GENERATION 1.5

Queens Museum of Art

Flushing Meadows Corona Park, Queens

Through Dec. 2

''Generation 1.5'' refers to people who emigrate during their adolescent years,
whose identity, unlike those of adult immigrants or children born in their
parents' adopted country, is shaped by both their old and new cultures.

Cross-cultural identity is addressed by some of the works in ''Generation 1.5.''
Elsewhere the show floats into general meditations on globalization and cultural
dislocation.

One of the best expressions of the ''Generation 1.5'' sensibility is Lee
Mingwei's ''Quartet Project,'' a sound and video installation. Monitors turned
toward the walls in a dark room play a performance of Antonin Dvorak's
''American'' Quartet. Each time you approach a monitor, the sound and image
cease -- although they continue on other monitors in the room. The inability to
simultaneously experience both aural and visual aspects of the performance is an
apt metaphor for an individual ricocheting between cultures.

Hybridization is approached in Seher Shah's drawings, which combine lotus
patterns, Mecca cubes and Western architectural motifs. The successful
contemporary artist as globalized citizen is made concrete in Rirkrit
Tiravanija's painstakingly recreated passport filled with stamps from nearly
every continent and Emily Jacir's Webcam stills taken during a residency in
Linz, Austria.

Becoming an American artist is explored in Ellen Harvey's miniaturized copies of
every work in the Whitney Museum of American Art's publication ''American
Visionaries.'' Pablo Helguera's installations of journals, drawings and
memorabilia, Shirin Neshat's video about censorship and Nari Ward's installation
with wheelchairs on stilts are some of the most dramatic and physically imposing
works, but they feel the least connected to meditations on ''Generation 1.5.''

The show is emblematic of the Queens Museum's program, which is increasingly
devoted to reflecting the borough's extensive diversity. But a risk in this
approach is that it may turn the immigrant experience into a platitude. At
times, despite the sexy, cyber-sociology title, ''Generation 1.5'' moves toward
this. MARTHA SCHWENDENER

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Part of a two-room installation piece by Marcel Broodthaers.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL WERNER GALLERY, NEW YORK AND COLOGNE)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               50 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 2, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Author Will Take Q.'s Now

BYLINE: By KARA JESELLA

SECTION: Section 9; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1184 words


FOR the publication in July of her first book, ''The Late Bloomer's
Revolution,'' Amy Cohen imagined a promotional tour of bookstores in Sydney,
Australia. And Paris. And a few places closer to home, New York City, would
work, too.

Then her publicist at Hyperion told her, as Ms. Cohen recalled somewhat tongue
in cheek, ''You aren't going to Scarsdale.'' Instead of some far-flung Barnes &
Noble, there was Prillboyle. Rather than Borders, there was Bluestalking Reader.
Ms. Cohen, a former television writer for ''Spin City'' and ''Caroline in the
City,'' was surprised to learn that most of her ''appearances'' would be on
blogs.

''When you're not in the book business you think, of course they're going to
send you around,'' she said.

Chances are, unless an author is especially high-profile or promising or willing
to pony up for expenses, they're not.

Fortunately for Ms. Cohen, her memoir has made it onto at least one best-seller
list even without a traditional reading and signing tour. She credits a write-up
in People magazine, along with a newer publishing tool: the blog book tour, in
which an author pops up on a series of blogs, usually over days or weeks,
variously writing guest posts, answering questions from the host or sitting for
a podcast, a video interview or a live chat. The blogs' readers may comment and
leave more questions. Ideally, they follow links to the author's Web site and to
an online retailer like Amazon.

Ms. Cohen made virtual stops at blogs related to the experiences she chronicles
in her book -- looking for love, learning to cook. At Books and Beliefs, she
answered questions about how Jewish groups can create more opportunities for
Jewish singles (throw parties); on Baking and Books, she was asked about her
favorite comfort food (fried chicken).

Bloggers have written about books since, well, the beginning of blogging. But a
blog book tour usually requires an author or publicist to take the initiative,
reaching out to bloggers as if they were booksellers and asking them to be the
host for a writer's online visit. Sometimes bloggers invite authors on their
own. In an age of budget-conscious publishers and readers who are as likely to
discover books from a Google search as from browsing at a bookstore, the blog
book tour makes sense. Although a few high-profile authors have had their books
sent to bloggers -- James Patterson recently promoted a young-adult book this
way -- most of the authors are lesser-known and less likely to be reviewed in
the mainstream press.

But the results can be impressive. When Frank Portman, the frontman for the band
the Mr. T Experience, published ''King Dork'' in 2006, he teamed up with Andrew
Krucoff, a popular blogger, who created a video ''trailer'' about the book's
main character, an alienated boy who dreams up imaginary bands, and asked Mr.
Portman questions for a Q. and A. These files were posted on Web sites like
Gawker, Largehearted Boy and BrooklynVegan, along with a recording of Mr.
Portman reading from the book and performing songs he had written for it. The
goal, Mr. Portman said, was to generate ''links and Google-ability.''

He achieved that and more. Tantalized by the Internet attention, USA Today wrote
about Mr. Portman and ''Late Show With David Letterman'' auditioned him as a
guest (he wasn't picked).

''If I had to choose, I'd rather have an author promote themselves online,''
said Felicia Sullivan, the senior online marketing manager of Collins, an
imprint of HarperCollins, who maintains that the Internet exposes authors to a
broader audience than most bookstore readings.

''You can reach at least a few hundred people on a blog, and save time, money
and the fear of being a loser when no one shows up to your reading.''

Initially slow to embrace the Internet, the publishing industry has made up for
lost time. It is the rare author who doesn't have a Web site or MySpace
presence. In June Simon & Schuster introduced BookVideoTV, which broadcasts
short videos of authors. Another venture introduced in July, Booktour.com, lets
authors post information about their books and tour dates (real and virtual).
The site was founded by Chris Anderson, the editor in chief of Wired and the
author of ''The Long Tail''; Adam Goldstein, a 19-year-old sophomore at M.I.T.;
and Kevin Smokler, a publishing expert credited with creating the first blog
book tour.

That was for ''Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers'' by the science
writer Mary Roach, in 2003. Since then, Mr. Smokler said, ''It's become de
rigueur for public relations to include blogs and online media as part of
regular touring.''

Many publishing houses have now hired Web-savvy publicists or outside blog tour
''producers.'' Some blog tour producers say they have, from time to time, paid
bloggers to review an author's book as part of a tour. Bloggers may or may not
reveal this detail. Producers also say they may try to dissuade bloggers who
want to post a negative review. But in general, negativity is hard to find on a
blog book tour. Gushiness -- on the part of authors, bloggers and readers -- is
not.

''Wow -- I can't begin to tell you how excited I was when Michelle Rowen invited
me along to do a guest spot on the Midnight Hour,'' wrote Amanda Ashby, a
romance author, who, like Ms. Rowen, is a member of the Girlfriends' Cyber
Circuit, a group of about 40 authors who have blogs and regularly promote one
another's books. In this post on Ms. Rowen's blog, Ms. Ashby was chronicling her
attempt to land a publishing deal for her novel ''You Had Me at Halo.''

''The book sounds fantastic and is one I'll definitely have to pick up soon,''
said a poster named Cory in the blog's comments section.

''Thanks so much, Cory!!'' Ms. Ashby responded.

Although blogging is another form of writing, not all authors seem equally
suited. Joshua Ferris, author of the critically acclaimed novel ''Then We Came
to the End,'' guest-blogged for a week at the Elegant Variation, a literary
blog, where he declared his fondness for the band the Hold Steady, rounded up
literary news and promoted graduate writing programs. Still, at the end of the
week, he apologized to readers: ''I only posted late at night, and only once a
day, whereas other bloggers keep you returning throughout the day. I didn't
respond to many of your comments, which seems an important part of the
blogger-commenter contract.''

Although authors say that the virtual tours generate traffic for their Web sites
and that they have seen their online sales increase, it is difficult to tell how
much blog book tours increase sales.

''I haven't been following that or charting it in a quantitative way,'' said
Dave Weich, director of marketing and development at Powell's Books, a
bookseller in Portland, Ore., with a strong Internet presence, adding that he
would notice only if a single blog sent a significant amount of traffic to
Powell's Web site over a defined period of time. But then, the dirty little
secret of real-life author tours, he said, is that ''most of the people who go
to events don't buy books.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 'GOOGLE-ABILITY': When Frank Portman was promoting his book
last year, he teamed up with a blogger and posted files online (pg. 2).
(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 NO AUTOGRAPHS, PLEASE: Amy Cohen is ''visiting'' blogs to promote her book.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               51 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 2, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hurtling Toward a Nomination, 2008

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 5405 words


It is hard to imagine a tougher year to be a presidential candidate -- or at
least, someone managing a presidential campaign. Never before has so much been
up in the air so close to the first vote. Even as the campaigns spent the past
few days planning for the unofficial kickoff that comes with Labor Day --
rallies, bus trips, house parties, speeches and the like -- they were struggling
with what veteran aides described as the most unsettled landscape they can
remember.

By yesterday, all the major Democratic candidates said they would not campaign
in states that move up their primaries in defiance of party rules -- Florida,
and in coming days, possibly Michigan,  a late-hour reminder that even the
schedule of when states vote remains up in the air for both parties.

By the traditional measures of fund-raising, endorsements and polls in early
primary states, there is no dominant front-runner in either party. Beyond
terrorism and the war, no one has figured out what issues are most going to
define the candidates, and with the debate over Iraq policy coming to a head in
Washington, even the war could prove to be a moving target politically.

The race has been proceeding for eight months at an intensity that candidates
normally do not face until the fall. It has come in a wave of debates,
high-volume candidate skirmishes, a need to raise huge sums of money and a
round-the-clock Internet-fueled news cycle always putting the campaigns on edge.
The result? The campaigns are not only anxious about an uncertain future but
weary even before the final rush to the primaries.

''We've played four quarters and now the game is just beginning,'' said David
Axelrod, a senior adviser to Senator Barack Obama and a veteran of Democratic
presidential campaigns.

''Now you have a situation where you campaign for a full year, and then the
process is compressed into a few frenetic weeks,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''We still
don't know what the calendar looks like, and we may not for another month or
more. How do you schedule where you put your time and resources? It is
challenging for everybody in the process.''

Sept. 6

Star Power

If there is one moment this fall that captures both the hopes and frustrations
of Republican primary voters, it is probably this one: This is the day that Fred
D. Thompson -- the actor and former senator from Tennessee -- announces he is
running for president.

After months of toying and teasing, the party will finally have an opportunity
to assess Mr. Thompson as a candidate -- why he is running, how he is different
from his opponents and how he comes across on the stump. So far, he has offered
only broad generalities of his campaign themes in his appearances. At the Iowa
State Fair last month, he drew some unfavorable headlines for his Gucci loafers
and decision to move around in a golf cart.

The Republicans' fixation on Mr. Thompson reflects continuing qualms,
particularly in the conservative wing, about the field of candidates. In their
ideal world, Mr. Thompson would turn out to be a strong, dominating candidate
and consistent champion for conservative values.

Mr. Thompson has presented himself as the inheritor of the political legacy of
President Ronald Reagan, another actor, and many in the party are hoping he will
be that. But others are just as concerned that Mr. Thompson could turn out to be
the Republican version of Wesley Clark. Mr. Clark charged onto the presidential
field in 2004 after setting off similar excitement among Democrats, who then
watched as the campaign quickly fumbled, the victim of Mr. Clark's lack of
experience in national politics and unclear vision of why he was running.

Even Mr. Thompson's associates acknowledge that the months leading up to his
announcement have hardly been auspicious as Mr. Thompson churned through staff
and, in his few public appearances, came across as somewhat underwhelming.

ADAM NAGOURNEY

Sept. 8

Just a Little House Party

Oprah Winfrey will hold a fund-raiser at her 23,000-square-foot mansion in Santa
Barbara, Calif., for Mr. Obama, a reflection of how candidates are scrambling
for support not just among voters, but among celebrities, too.

In past elections the celebrity set has gravitated toward the Clintons, but this
time around Mr. Obama is chipping into the Hollywood elite, and the Oprah
fund-raiser at her 42-acre property, complete with man-made lake, will show his
drawing power.

The Hollywood divide between Mr. Obama and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton became
apparent in February when producer David Geffen, a longtime supporter of the
Clintons, publicly broke with them and threw a fund-raiser for Mr. Obama that
brought in $1.3 million.

Celebrities can bring sought-after buzz to a campaign -- a bankable commodity in
its own right -- and their star power can haul in money from donors eager to
party with the stars, sometimes at their homes. Mr. Obama has shown surprising
strength on that front, receiving the maximum $2,300 in primary contributions
from actors Tom Hanks, Morgan Freeman, Samuel L. Jackson, Halle Berry, Eddie
Murphy, Gene Wilder, Leonard Nimoy, Rosanna Arquette, Chris Rock, Will Smith,
George Clooney and Jennifer Aniston.

Some actors are playing the Democratic field, making donations to multiple
candidates. Ben Stiller has given to Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Obama and former Senator
John Edwards. Paul Newman and Michael Douglas have donated to Mrs. Clinton, Mr.
Obama, Senator Christopher J. Dodd and Gov. Bill Richardson. Barbra Streisand
supports Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Dodd, Mr. Edwards and Mr. Obama. Tobey Maguire likes
Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama.

The Republicans are not without support in the entertainment industry, but it is
comparatively thin. Kelsey Grammer gave $4,600 to Rudolph W. Giuliani, the
former mayor of New York, for the primary and general election, while Adam
Sandler gave him $2,100. Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor,
received $500 from Pat Boone. Jerry Bruckheimer gave $2,300 to Senator John
McCain.

MIKE McINTIRE

Sept. 10

Iraq Yardstick

The presidential hopefuls, who have spent months clinging to familiar scripts in
the debate over the war, will carefully digest the Iraq progress report to be
delivered this day to Congress by Gen. David H. Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan C.
Crocker.

Campaign advisers are weighing whether the report provides an opening for
Republican candidates to break with President Bush or presents an opportunity to
give the current strategy more time. The moment could be critical as candidates
work to balance the strategy in Iraq with the domestic threat from Islamic
terrorists.

Day after day, the Democrats will use the war issue to promise a sharp break
with Bush administration policies. Except for Mr. McCain, the Republicans have
had far less to say about the war, making the case that they will keep the
nation safer than the Democrats, an approach that helped Mr. Bush win
re-election in 2004.

As Mr. Thompson put it recently, ''Iraq, one way or another, is in our rearview
mirror.'' But if the report shows progress, could Mr. McCain be granted an
unexpected political lifeline?

Sept. 18

Eyes on the Fed

The first President George Bush blamed Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the
Federal Reserve, for his loss to Bill Clinton in 1992.

''Alan Greenspan disappointed me,'' Mr. Bush said in a 1998 interview with David
Frost. ''I think if the interest rates had been lowered more dramatically, that
I would have been re-elected president.''

Mr. Bush's assertion may be debatable but his complaint is powerful evidence
that the decisions of the independent Fed, which strives to stand apart from
partisan politics, are open to political criticism.

With the Fed, now led by Ben Bernanke, facing a critical decision on Sept. 18
when its policymakers will consider whether to lower interest rates in response
to this summer's credit crunch, Mr. Bernanke and his fellow central bankers,
whether they like it or not, can expect to be in the spotlight.

If economic growth weakens in the months ahead, it would undercut one of the few
positives Republican candidates have been able to point to in making their case
to succeed the current President Bush. A sharp rise in foreclosures and a
visible decline in home prices would also hurt, reinforcing the Democratic
argument that Republican economic policies have helped the rich while harming
the middle class and the poor.

''The economy has not been a big issue in the campaign,'' said Mark Zandi, chief
economist at Moody's Economy.com, an independent research firm. ''But I now
expect that the economic climate is going to be weaker through a big chunk of
the electioneering season.''

A chillier economy, however, would not necessarily be an unalloyed gain for
Democrats. It would be easy to blame the outgoing President Bush for an economic
downturn. It would be harder to hold the new Republican nominee accountable for
whatever economic troubles lie ahead.

Moreover, the threat of a recession would make it more difficult for Democrats
to advocate allowing the president's tax cuts to expire, as they are scheduled
to do in 2010, and easier for Republicans to argue that Democratic proposals to
raise taxes on the rich risk making the economy worse.

So both sides in the campaign have reasons to hope that the Fed's actions will
help keep the economy afloat. If not, both Democrats and Republicans will be
looking for someone to blame, and Mr. Bernanke, like Mr. Greenspan, will be one
of the targets.

TOM REDBURN

Sept. 26

Bill Goes Global

Mr. Clinton kicks off his three-day Clinton Global Initiative conference in New
York City, a display of the clout of the prospective first gentleman and a de
facto commercial for Mrs. Clinton.

Mr. Clinton likes to say that foreign leaders are pulling for his wife's
election as a way to restore American credibility around the world. He has been
mum on which foreign leaders believe this, but word is that some global
luminaries may use the event to praise Mrs. Clinton or her candidacy
(unofficially because the event is officially nonpolitical).

The presidents of Colombia, Israel and Kazakhstan are scheduled to attend, as
are former leaders of Canada, Ireland and Mexico. Lance Armstrong, Toni Morrison
and Ted Turner will add luster to the proceedings. What are the odds that they
make an offhand endorsement of Mrs. Clinton to one of the scores of reporters
who will be covering the event?

And then there is Iraq. Mrs. Clinton's 2002 Senate vote authorizing the war was
a matter of hallway gossip among some attendees last year. The Clintons are
trying to focus the Iraq discussion on future solutions, and not Mrs. Clinton's
past vote (or mistake, as some conference-goers said last year). Will there be
an all-but-official ban on discussing the old Iraq vote on Clinton territory?

As for Mrs. Clinton, she has attended and headlined some of the conference
sessions in past years. The smart bet is that she will also do a star turn at
some point at this one. Although if there is a coffee-and-pie invitation from an
Iowa legislator who has yet to endorse, Mr. Clinton may be filling in for her at
the conference.

PATRICK HEALY

Oct. 15

McCain's Crossroads

Watch this day to see if Mr. McCain is going to stay in the race through the
Iowa caucuses. Mr. McCain must report his third-quarter fund-raising and has
said since the financial collapse of his campaign this summer that he would stay
in the race, pledging to plow ahead with a bare-bones budget in the belief that
voters will embrace him when they begin to inspect the field.

His assertion has drawn skepticism from some supporters, who say it is far from
certain he will be able to raise enough money to continue.

Another bad quarter of fund-raising could leave Mr. McCain with little choice
but to exit as he faces an expensive stretch of the race, when most candidates
will spend heavily on advertising. (Not to mention that another bad fund-raising
report would do little to attract new supporters, contributors and the free news
coverage he would need if he could not afford advertising.)

Should he drop out, the big question would be who, if anyone, he endorses. His
associates say the person to watch is Mr. Giuliani: Mr. McCain has never been
particularly fond of Mr. Romney. Aides to Mr. McCain said he had also been under
the impression that Mr. Thompson would not enter the race as long as Mr. McCain
was in it. One associate said that Mr. McCain was riled by Mr. Thompson's entry,
making it more likely that he would back Mr. Giuliani.

ADAM NAGOURNEY

Oct. 19

Finding Their Religion

Start of a two-day ''Values Voters Summit,'' sponsored by several leading
Christian conservative groups. The event's straw poll could offer a sense of
whether evangelical and other social conservatives have coalesced around a
candidate in the Republican presidential race.

For Mr. Giuliani, the big question is whether those voters will overlook his
defense of abortion rights and be swayed by his pitch that he is strongest on
the biggest family value of them all: guarding their families from terrorist
attack.

Mr. Romney has been working to overcome concerns about his Mormon faith and his
relatively recent conversion to ardent opponent of abortion. Watch for Mr.
Romney, who spoke at this forum last year, to deliver his version of the speech
John F. Kennedy made before Southern Baptist leaders in Houston in 1960 that
many credit with helping him overcome concerns about his Catholicism. Could this
be the venue?

For his part, Mr. McCain, who once called Pat Robertson and the Rev. Jerry
Falwell ''agents of intolerance,'' has worked to patch up his relationship with
evangelicals and can point to a consistent voting record opposing abortion.

With so much hand-wringing among Christian conservatives about their choices in
the field, however, Mr. Thompson had been viewed by many as their last best
hope. By this date, there should be a sense of whether he has been able to
consolidate their support or whether his moment passed before he officially
entered the race.

Standing in the background is the candidate who drew attention for his
second-place finish in the Iowa straw poll: Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas
governor and a former Baptist pastor. But Mr. Huckabee faces a steep climb. He,
like everyone else in the field, could use a divine assist. MICHAEL LUO

Oct. 24

The Other National Pastime

The World Series begins. Beer companies pay top dollar for advertisements
between innings. But a candidate whose team is in the series may snatch lots of
free face time from reaction shots, not to mention a chance to throw out a first
pitch or get a brief interview in the broadcast booth.

So, would a Diamondbacks-Yankees series see a reprise of the friendly
McCain-Giuliani rivalry of 2001, when the two men took in games together? Will
Mr. Romney's Red Sox have knocked Mr. Giuliani's Yankees out of contention? And
where would Mrs. Clinton's loyalties lie in a Yankees-Cubs World Series? MICHAEL
COOPER

Oct. 26

Going to Disney World

Florida Democrats will gather at Disney World for the state convention, and the
presidential candidates are invited. Whether they attend -- and what else they
do in Florida if they come -- will provide an early test of how closely they
plan to adhere to a pledge the major candidates  signed not to campaign in any
state that moved up its primary in violation of party rules.

Florida's decision to move up its primary to Jan. 29 defied a party guideline
that required the state to hold its contest no earlier than Feb. 5. The pledge
also applies to Michigan, which is set to move its primary ahead to Jan. 15
despite the threat of similar sanctions.

The Democratic candidates are well aware of the importance of Florida in a
general election. And they are well aware that one Republican in particular, Mr.
Giuliani, seems to be spending as much time in Florida as in Iowa. They do not
want any Floridian to feel disrespected by Democrats who seem to be skipping out
on their primary.

It will be interesting to see which Democrats turn up in Orlando, Fla.; a
Florida party official made clear Saturday that pledge or no pledge, members
expect candidates to come to their convention. And look for candidates (think
Mrs. Clinton, who had looked to an early Florida primary as a step to advance
her nomination and her general election prospects) who might sneak in a
''nonpolitical'' event that would win a moment of Florida television without
riling Democrats in places like Iowa and New Hampshire.

ADAM NAGOURNEY

Nov. 4

The Wallflowers

This begins the one-year countdown to Election Day 2008, raising the question:
Will the field of candidates be settled by then? You may think there are already
too many people running for president, but several are still standing on the
sidelines, talking about running or encouraging speculation about their
ambitions.

Call them the coquettes: First among them is the mayor of New York, Michael R.
Bloomberg, who says he is not a candidate, relishes the talk that he might be
one and all the while pursues a just-in-case strategy of laying the groundwork
for a third-party run.

Mr. Bloomberg may have told Dan Rather recently that he would not mount a
campaign (''Nobody's going to elect me president of the United States,'' he said
in an interview on the high-definition cable network HDNet), but his actions
continue to send the opposite message.

Mr. Bloomberg dropped his Republican affiliation and transformed himself into a
symbol of pragmatic, nonpartisan governing. He has traveled the country giving
federal policy speeches on issues like gun control, poverty, education, stem
cell research, energy and illegal immigration. He has also built a network of
political alliances with like-minded leaders from important electoral states,
including California (Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger), Missouri (Senator Claire
McCaskill) and Florida (former Gov. Jeb Bush).

Also in this group are the former House speaker, Newt Gingrich, who is giving a
speech Sept. 27 that may reveal his intentions. Sam Nunn, the former Democratic
senator from Georgia and a military expert, has said he may make a third-party
bid with the Unity '08 group, which is seeking a bipartisan ticket.

There is also Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, who is a Vietnam
veteran and an outspoken critic of the Iraq war. Both he and Mr. Bloomberg have
expressed their frustration with the current state of two-party politics, and
Mr. Hagel has been floating the notion of a Bloomberg-Hagel (or is that
Hagel-Bloomberg?) independent ticket next year.

Last, but not least, the specter of an Al Gore candidacy looms over the
Democratic race, which could be a particular concern to the Clinton camp. People
watch Mr. Gore's fluctuating weight for an indication of his political plans,
but his recent book tour was a sign that he remains very much in the political
arena.

Mr. Gore continues to bat away speculation about his intentions, but even
standing on the sidelines he adds drama to an already volatile race.

DIANE CARDWELL

Nov. 28

The Cyber-race

With all the predictions that 2008 would be ''the YouTube election,'' it came as
a surprise this summer when some of the Republican presidential candidates
balked at a YouTube debate scheduled for Sept. 17. Faced with criticism from
several leading Republican bloggers, the candidates relented, agreeing to this
date for their debate, in which the public will ask questions via video.

Historians looking back on the episode might wonder what all the fuss was about.
Videos on the Web are now so common that, in retrospect, their introduction into
presidential debates seems inevitable. They enliven the format, allow voters
without inside connections to take part, and inject an element of real life --
and animated life, too, like the snowman who asked about global warming at the
Democrats' debate on YouTube in July. MySpace and MTV are following with their
own candidate forums.

Among the candidates, there is now a race for the most YouTube channel views and
MySpace friends and who can best mobilize the net roots. The Democrats have
established a clear advantage on the Internet, particularly in raising money.

Some Republicans, notably Mr. Romney and Mr. Thompson, have shown some dexterity
online, but the Republican field lags in using the Web and in becoming
comfortable with it.

There are several theories: Republicans are hierarchical by nature and prefer
top-down control, as opposed to the anarchy of the Web, where no one is in
charge; just as the Republicans developed a countervailing voice on talk radio
while the Democrats were in power, the Democrats have developed their voice on
the Internet. The Republicans have no equivalent of the DailyKos blog, which
serves as an organizing tool for the left and where views are often picked up by
the mainstream news media.

If there was a lament about the Democrats' debate on YouTube, it was that the
videos did not exploit the nature of the medium; most questioners simply turned
the camera on themselves. Perhaps in the Republican version, questioners will
use video to greater effect. They might, for example, ask Mr. Giuliani a
question while showing the World Trade Center on fire, or ask Mr. McCain a
question to the tune of the Beach Boys' song ''Barbara Ann,'' a nod to his own
''Bomb, Bomb, Bomb, Bomb Bomb Iran.''

Voters, especially younger ones, will be watching to see if the candidates can
show them that this is not their fathers' Republican Party.

KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

Dec. 10

Something About California

The Democrats will debate in Los Angeles, battling for votes in delegate-rich
California, the ultimate prize of the Feb. 5 mega-primary day.

California lawmakers of both parties thought they had a brilliant strategy when
they moved their primary to Feb. 5. The unifying theory was that the candidates,
so accustomed to making the money rounds among California donors before fleeing
east forever, would now be forced to campaign in the state. But by the time Mr.
Schwarzenegger swiped his pen and made the change official in March, roughly 20
other states had also entered the February game.

The result is that candidates are confronted with hard logistical choices about
how to deal with a crucial state. California provides big dollars through its
donor pool, but it also takes them away, as one of the most expensive media
markets.

What is more, it removes candidates who spend a lot of time there far from the
rest of the action, particularly Iowa and New Hampshire, whose voters have not
cottoned to candidates who fail to spend a lot of time in their states.

The entry of California into the early rounds also means that candidates are
going to be appealing for Hispanic votes (not a big constituency in New
Hampshire) and boning up on issues that have not played big in previous primary
fights, issues like the environment, water rights and immigration.

If it causes logistical problems for some candidates, it has provided an opening
for others: Mr. Giuliani has been carving out time recently to keep up
appearances in the state, practically becoming a part-time resident of Orange
County, where he is focusing a fair amount of his efforts. That is because he is
hoping to survive a second- or third-place showing in Iowa and New Hampshire, do
better in the handful of contests after that, then notch commanding victories in
California and other Feb. 5 states. JENNIFER STEINHAUER

Dec. 16

Judi, Jeri and the Rest

Today the nation -- or at least Mr. Giuliani -- bids Judith Giuliani a happy
53rd birthday. Next year's could be more festive, though: Mrs. Giuliani could be
the incoming first lady.

That would be sweet revenge for a woman who has had a rough journey on the
campaign trail, with her husband saying, then not saying, she would attend
cabinet meetings, admissions that the two had dated while Mr. Giuliani was still
married, and articles in which writers and sources tore Mrs. Giuliani to bits.

But Mrs. Giuliani is just one in a group of spouses so rich in personality and
subplot that they seem more like characters in a novel than in the news.

The Republican side is a case of the old hands -- veterans Cindy McCain and Ann
Romney -- against the arrivistes, Mrs. Giuliani and Jeri Kehn Thompson. While
Mrs. Giuliani has been covered extensively, less is known about Mrs. Thompson,
other than that she is more than 20 years younger than her husband, active in
the campaign, and wears a cocktail gown distractingly well.

In the next few months, said Gil Troy, an expert on first families, look for
both women to throw themselves into worthy causes. ''That's what Nancy Reagan
did, and it helped redirect the coverage,'' he said.

Perhaps as a counter to Mrs. Giuliani and Mrs. Thompson, the Romney campaign
will soon start www.annromney.com, about the woman who seems, at first blush,
like a perfect political wife: her husband's high school sweetheart and a
volunteer for children's charities. But Mrs. Romney would be a first lady with a
terrible sword hanging over her head: she has multiple sclerosis, a disease that
once left her barely able to walk and could flare up at any time.

On the Democratic side, the two women working most furiously to defeat Mrs.
Clinton are also following in her footsteps. Elizabeth Edwards and Michelle
Obama are brainy, outspoken lawyers who started off as their husbands'
professional equals, turned away from their own careers and devoted themselves
to those of their husbands.

No one knows how much time Elizabeth Edwards has left because of her incurable
cancer, which means the nation could lose a first lady if her husband is
elected.

Meanwhile, Mr. Clinton is ''strongly committed'' to continuing his foundation
work if his wife is elected, which would violate a tradition of spouses not
working outside the White House.

So to break a women's barrier it might take a man. JODI KANTOR Jan. ?

Making 'Iowa Nice'

The date is hard to pin down, but The Des Moines Register likes to schedule its
Republican presidential debate about a week before the Iowa Caucuses, and this
one could be the one to watch.

The Republicans, who have trained most of their fire on the Democrats, will be
torn by conflicting impulses. Some may feel constrained to keep it pleasant, in
the spirit of the civil brand of politics that Iowans are known to favor.
Others, trailing in the polls as time runs out, will be under enormous pressure
to bloody the front-runner.

''Iowa nice'' has its limits. Howard Dean was an Iowa front-runner who was
pummeled by his opponents at the Democratic debate in 2004, and when the
caucuses were held later that month he finished in third place.

What intramural skirmishing there has been at Republican debates has been
largely confined to Mr. Romney's efforts to portray Mr. McCain as soft on
illegal immigration, and Mr. McCain's counterattack painting Mr. Romney as a
flip-flopper.

While Mr. Giuliani has been leading in national polls, his rivals have been
loath to engage him directly, partly because he is popular and partly because
they did not expect his lead to hold. But Mr. Romney has recently shown a
willingness to criticize Mr. Giuliani, which could foretell a new debate
strategy.

Mr. Thompson is a wild card. A Republican close to the Thompson camp said one
reason he delayed his entry into the race was a concern that he was not ready to
compete in debates. Once Mr. Thompson gets to the lectern, the question is
whether he will come across as the folksy communicator his supporters admire or
as ill-prepared compared with rivals who have been at it longer.

David Yepsen, The Register's political columnist, said that if he were asking
questions in this debate, he would focus on the growing national debt.

This is the kind of debate that could help voters make up their minds --
particularly because the caucuses are by design more deliberative than regular
primary elections, making unforeseen last-minute surges a possibility. (See:
Kerry, John.) MICHAEL COOPER

Jan. 14

Edwards's Gamble

The scheduled date of the Iowa caucuses -- for now -- and none of the candidates
has more at stake than Mr. Edwards, who has thrown much of his resources into
Iowa, hoping that a victory will propel him to a triumph in New Hampshire and
catapult him toward the Democratic nomination.

The flip side is equally significant -- should Mr. Edwards not do well in Iowa,
even his top aides have conceded it would be hard for him to remain a viable
candidate.

In recent weeks, as Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama have been chipping away at Mr.
Edwards's edge in Iowa polls, the Edwards campaign has been diverting staff
members from other early states to beef up operations, magnifying the stakes for
Mr. Edwards there.

To some extent, Mr. Edwards has advantages in Iowa that his opponents lack. He
gets warm greetings from Iowa's largely white, largely older caucusgoers who may
not be ready to break ground and support a woman or a black candidate for the
presidency.

Mr. Edwards has spent a lot of time courting rural Iowans, who have
disproportionate power in the caucuses, by saying he is more ''electable'' than
Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama -- both of whom appear to appeal more to women and
younger voters and urban voters.

In 2004, Mr. Edwards flew under the Iowa radar to a surprise second-place finish
that raised him to national prominence. The last thing he wants this time is for
one aspect of Iowa political history to repeat itself: Representative Richard A.
Gephardt of Missouri faced the Iowa causes in 2004 as the favorite, the position
Mr. Edwards is in today, only to be upset by the fresh faces of Senator John
Kerry and Mr. Edwards himself.

LESLIE WAYNE

Jan. 15

Commercial Appeal

By now advertising campaigns will be at or near record levels, with candidates
on both sides running commercials in states with the next big contests, like
Nevada and New Hampshire. The campaigns will also be watching for rivals who
start laying down advertising money in states with more distant contests or in
states in which they were not previously expected to do well.

As one Republican strategist said, bold advertising moves at this stage would
either be a sign of confidence or a bluff to draw rivals' precious advertising
dollars into a state they had considered safe. JIM RUTENBERG

Feb. 5

The Mega-Primary

Will this day -- when 20 states hold their nominating contests -- signify the
end of the primary season? That is one of the central discussions ricocheting
through most of the campaigns as they try to predict the outcome of a
mega-primary day that will pose major logistical challenges for candidates
coming off battles in Florida, Iowa, New Hampshire and other battlegrounds like
Maryland and Virginia.

With more than half the delegates in play on Feb. 5, it is possible -- maybe
even probable -- that Republicans and Democrats will end the day with a
presumptive nominee.

But it is also possible -- particularly on the Democratic side, where Mrs.
Clinton, Mr. Obama and Mr. Edwards all have sizable bases of support -- that the
candidates will split the take and continue to the next state. That would turn
this into a delegate accumulation battle that could easily go through the spring
and into the convention.

As a result of all that uncertainty, the campaigns are having to think beyond
Feb. 5 and keep some money in reserve to carry them through what could be a war
of attrition.

One thing is certain: Both Mrs. Clinton, a Democrat, and Mr. Giuliani, a
Republican, are looking to this day -- where states voting include California,
New Jersey and New York, all hospitable to the two New Yorkers -- as a fire wall
in the event they stumble in Iowa and New Hampshire.

ADAM NAGOURNEY

June 3

Last but Maybe Not Least

Should the parties not have candidates by Feb. 5 or soon after, some states that
shied away from the early primary sweepstakes could emerge as power brokers.
South Dakota, for example, is holding firm to this last-in-the-nation primary
date. With so many candidates, an unsettled nomination could make South Dakota
the new Iowa. The issues there? On Friday, the top story on the Web site of The
Pierre Capital Journal was: ''Fire chars shed on east side of Pierre.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS: Spouses (and ex-wives) thicken the plot
Romney following in dad's footsteps
Florida's game of chicken
Another crack at running the free world?
Fred D. Thompson tries a new career, again
Will Oprah's magic rub off on Obama? (ILLUSTRATIONS BY EDEL RODRIGUEZ)
What to expect when you're electing: Sure, the presidential campaign is under
way. But just wait: the months ahead are pockmarked with increasingly crucial
moments that will determine which candidates emerge as their party's nominee.
CHARTS: WHO VOTERS SUPPORT: Nationwide Gallup telephone surveys were conducted
Aug. 13 to 16. Chart showing Republican and Democrat support for the candidates
WHAT THEY RAISED: Through the second quarter in millions. (Source: Federal
Election Committee) Chart showing in millions the amount of money each candidate
has raised (pg. 20)
INTERNET MARKET SHARE: Among presidential Web sites, visitors went to: (Source:
Hitwise) Chart showing the presidential web sites most frequently visited
 EARLY CONTESTS (Source: National Association of Secretaries of State)(pg. 21).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               52 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 5, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Prostitutes Turn to Craigslist, Law Enforcement Takes Notice

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Sept. 4


The eight women visited Long Island this summer along with vacationing families
and other business travelers, staying in hotels and motels in commercial strips
in middle-class suburbs like East Garden City, Hicksville and Woodbury. Their
ages ranged from 20 to 32.

Three had come all the way from the San Francisco Bay area, one from Miami. Two
lived less than 60 miles away, in Newark and Elizabeth, N.J. and two even
closer, in Brooklyn.

All eight were arrested on prostitution charges here, snared in a new sting
operation by the Nassau County police that focuses on Craigslist.org, the
ubiquitous Web site best known for its employment and for-sale advertisements
but which law enforcement officials say is increasingly also used to trade sex
for money.

Nassau County has made more than 70 arrests since it began focusing on
Craigslist last year, one of numerous crackdowns by vice squads from Hawaii to
New Hampshire that have lately been monitoring the Web site closely, sometimes
placing decoy ads to catch would-be customers.

''Craigslist has become the high-tech 42nd Street, where much of the
solicitation takes place now,'' said Richard McGuire, Nassau's assistant chief
of detectives. ''Technology has worked its way into every profession, including
the oldest.''

Augmenting traditional surveillance of street walkers, massage parlors, brothels
and escort services, investigators are now hunching over computer screens to
scroll through provocative cyber-ads in search of solicitors.

In July raids, the sheriff of Cook County, Ill., rounded up 43 women working on
the streets -- and 60 who advertised on Craigslist. In Seattle, a covert police
ad on Craigslist in November resulted in the arrests of 71 men, including a bank
officer, a construction worker and a surgeon.

And in Jacksonville, Fla., a single ad the police posted for three days in
August netted 33 men, among them a teacher and a firefighter. ''We got hundreds
and hundreds and hundreds of hits'' in phone calls and e-mail messages, said
John P. Hartley, the assistant chief sheriff there.

Sex and the Internet have been intertwined almost since the first Web site, but
the authorities say that prostitution is flourishing online as never before. And
while prostitutes also advertise on other sites, the police here and across the
country say Craigslist is by far the favorite. On one recent day, for example,
some 9,000 listings were added to the site's ''Erotic Services'' category in the
New York region alone: Most offered massage and escorts, often hinting at more.

Law enforcement officials have accused Craigslist of enabling prostitution. But
the company's president, Jim Buckmaster, said its 24-member staff cannot patrol
the multitude of constantly changing listings -- some 20 million per month --
and counts on viewers to flag objectionable ads, which are promptly removed.

''We do not want illegal activity on the site,'' he said. Asked whether the
company supported the police's placing decoy ads on Craigslist, Mr. Buckmaster
said: ''We don't comment on the specifics'' of law enforcement.

Craig Newmark, the site's founder and chairman, deferred all questions to Mr.
Buckmaster.

The police have also occasionally turned to Craigslist to trace stolen goods
offered for sale or make drug arrests. In June, in Nassau, spotting code words
like ''snow'' or ''skiing'' to refer to cocaine, they set up a sting with an
undercover officer to arrest a man who advertised  cocaine for sex.

Experts say that under the federal Communications Decency Act of 1996, the ads
are legal and Web site owners are exempt from responsibility for content posted
by users. Craigslist, for example, last fall won dismissal of a suit that
alleged housing discrimination in ads posted on its Web site. ''You hold the
speaker liable, not the soapbox,'' explained Kurt B. Opsahl, senior staff
attorney for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital civil liberties group
based in San Francisco.

While Mr. Buckmaster said Craigslist was no different from old-media
publications that have long carried sex-oriented ads, law enforcement officials
say its scope and format are especially useful to the sex industry. With
listings for some 450 cities around the world, Craigslist claims to have 25
million users and 8 billion page views a month. Posting advertisements, except
those in the employment and some housing categories, is free, as is responding
to them by e-mail.

''The Internet has allowed people to make contact in a way not possible
before,'' said Ronald Weitzer, a sociology professor at George Washington
University and a researcher on prostitution. ''Ten years ago this was not
happening at all.''

As Nassau's district attorney, Kathleen Rice, said of Craigslist: ''It's as easy
as it gets.''

Tracy Quan, a member of the advocacy group Prostitutes of New York and author of
the autobiographical novel ''Diary of a Married Call Girl'' (Harper Perennial,
2006), acknowledged that ''the Internet became a virtual street for people in
the sex industry,'' but said that ''the police are as inventive and as wily as
sex workers are.'' She said that the stings amounted to entrapment of consenting
adults, and that ''it seems like an enormous waste of time resources by
authoritarian busybodies.''

The police say that Craigslist has changed prostitution's patterns, with people
roaming the country, setting up shop for a week or two in hotels -- often near
airports -- where they use laptop computers and cellphones to arrange encounters
for hundreds of dollars, then moving on to their next location.

''They like to move around, that's for sure,'' said Assistant Chief McGuire.
''They're flying in from out of state because there is money here'' on Long
Island.

In Westchester County this spring, the police in Greenburgh, Rye, Rye Brook and
Elmsford formed a joint task force to investigate ads on  Craigslist, resulting
in 30 arrests. Some of those arrested were out-of-town prostitutes who booked
numerous dates in advance, then whisked in for a busy couple of days, the police
said.

In Sandpoint, Idaho, population 8,105, R. Mark Lockwood, the police chief, said
that an arrest this summer involving Craigslist ''was probably our first
prostitution case since World War II.''

Amid the police crackdown, in a game of electronic cat-and-mouse, the
authorities say that Web site users who get wind of enforcement sometimes post
warnings to thwart investigators.

The Craigslist modus operandi provides mobility, helping prostitutes keep a few
steps ahead of the law, law enforcement officials say. It also affords a degree
of anonymity -- if they are caught, being away from home makes an arrest less
embarrassing.

Pimps have also adapted to the computer age, the police say. Among those
arrested here in August, on charges of promoting prostitution, was Victor
Teixeira, 31, of Mineola. ''He was managing the technology of it,'' said
Assistant Chief McGuire. ''He recruited the women on the Internet. He put
different ads up sometimes three times day. He would screen the calls and make
the appointments.''

Mr. Teixeira pleaded not guilty; he could not be reached for comment.

Most of the arrests are on misdemeanor charges, with convictions resulting in
fines of a few hundred dollars; only repeat offenders risk jail time. The real
penalties are the disruption of business, the cost of lawyers and the seizures
of computers and cash -- as much as several thousand dollars at a time. The
police say thefocus on such misconduct is worthwhile because prostitution is
often linked to other crimes involving drugs, weapons, physical abuse and
exploitation of minors and immigrants.

Law enforcement officials ask why Craigslist even includes Erotic Services among
its 191 categories. Mr. Buckmaster, the company president, said the site created
that category ''at the request of our users'' for legitimate massage, escorts
and exotic dancers. In an e-mail interview, he said that the police had praised
the company's cooperation, though he did not give examples.

Despite police complaints that Craigslist facilitates prostitution, some experts
say the Web site also aids enforcement.

''Craigslist is a very open site, and it leaves digital footprints,'' said
Leslie A. Harris, president of the nonprofit Center for Democracy and
Technology. ''It makes it easier for the police.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A detective in Nassau County monitors Craigslist's ''Erotic
Services'' category. Doing so has led to more than 70 arrests. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
KIRK CONDYLES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               53 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 6, 2007 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

A Facebook for the Few

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA; Kibum Kim contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1242 words


If more proof were needed that the rich are different, it could be found on
aSmallWorld.net, an invitation-only social networking site.

''I need to rent 20 very luxury sports cars for an event in Switzerland on the
6th September,'' a member wrote recently on the Forum, aSmallWorld's popular
nucleus. ''The cars should be: Maserati  --  Ferrari  --  Lamborghini  --  Aston
Martin ONLY!''

Another announced: ''If anyone is looking for a private island, I now have one
available for purchase in Fiji.''

Founded four years ago, the site, promoted as a Facebook for the social elite,
has grown from about 500 members to about 150,000 registered users. At a time
when Christina Aguilera has 466,550 MySpace friends, aSmallWorld has attempted
to create an Internet niche by cultivating an air of exclusivity.

The site functions much like an inscrutable co-op board: its members, who pay no
fee, induct newcomers on the basis of education, profession and most important,
their network of personal contacts. Sleeker than MySpace or Facebook,
aSmallWorld.net is not the type of site where one is likely to come across
videos of amateur motorcycle stunts or girls in bikinis.

Users are mostly young -- 32 on average. Many have graduate degrees and a taste
for living extravagantly on more than one continent. Sixty-five percent are from
Europe, 20 percent from the United States and the rest  scattered around the
globe.

''We have put together a platform where a definitive group of people are
separated by only three degrees,'' Erik Wachtmeister, aSmallWorld's founder,
says often and loudly.

Advertisers were scarce at first. But in the last six months, luxury brands have
come on board after a push from investors, including the movie mogul Harvey
Weinstein.

The site drew a flurry of media attention last year, when Mr. Weinstein
purchased a minority stake through the Weinstein Company, projecting that
aSmallWorld's membership could grow to a million within a year or two.
SmallWorld is his sole investment in an Internet property.

Mr. Weinstein, who is diversifying beyond the film industry and recently
acquired the fashion house Halston, would not say how much he paid, but he is
the largest single investor in aSmallWorld. (Other minority investors include
the film director Renny Harlin, the media executive Robert W. Pittman, and
Alexander Von Furstenberg, an entrepreneur and the son of the designer Diane Von
Furstenberg, an early advertiser on the site.)

The draw, Mr. Weinstein said without a shred of irony, is ''direct access to
some of the world's most influential tastemakers,'' a community he sees as early
adopters and a natural market for his films, books and fashions.

''We're dealing with a group of people that moves in social migration around the
planet,'' said Joe Robinson, the new chief executive. ''From the point of view
of a Mercedes-Benz or a Piaget, that makes this an enormous marketing
opportunity.''

The Weinstein Company introduced Mr. Robinson, a former advertising executive
with Fox Interactive Media, the owner of MySpace, to court advertisers like
Lufthansa, Land Rover,  Credit Suisse, Moet & Chandon and Burberry. Olivier
Stip, the vice president of marketing for Cartier North America, said that an
advertisement placed in June generated lively traffic for the jeweler's Love
collection.

Advertising rates are competitive with those of Forbes.com and Style.com, Mr.
Robinson said. On average, clients spend $20,000 to $50,000 a month, he said.
The company also arranges dinners and tastings where members can sample
advertisers' products. For one recent gathering, Remy Martin supplied 4,000
bottles of its premium Cognac, valued at $200 each.

But the presence of advertisers raises questions about just whom they are
reaching and whether this business model works.

Mr. Robinson said 35 percent of aSmallWorld members log in every day. But Andrew
Lipsman, a senior analyst at comScore Network, a company that rates online
usage, said that it is hard to track the number of unique visitors because the
site is relatively small. ''If there are a couple of hundred thousand registered
users,'' he said, ''probably only a fraction are visiting the site regularly.''
Compare that with Facebook, which in July had 30.6 million unique visitors, a
number that has doubled since last year, Mr. Lipsman said.

Charlene Li, an analyst at Forrester Research in Foster City, Calif., said that
for advertisers trying to concentrate on  a group of influential people, a
special-interest publication makes sense. ''I liken advertising on aSmallWorld
to advertising in the Harvard Business School alumni report,'' she said. ''For
luxury advertisers, the online options are fairly limited.''

Skeptics are not sure just who is getting the message. ''For truly wealthy
consumers, time is the ultimate luxury,'' said Pam Danziger of Unity Marketing,
which researches luxury brands. ''These people are not going to waste it hanging
about on a social networking site.''

Those who do hang about often use the site to billboard themselves, advertising
unabashedly pretentious tastes. A journalist in Vienna shared the news that her
favorite Champagne was Henri Giraud -- ''I particularly like the 95 Grand Cru,''
she wrote on the Forum. Another member recommended Eclipse, a bar on Walton
Street in London, for its watermelon martini, ''a tour de force.''

In reply to a query from a comely young woman searching for a hairdresser in
Singapore, a Procter & Gamble executive there responded with a thinly veiled
proposition: ''I have two bottles of Nice n' Easy in the cupboard. I'll do it
for free.''

The company does not publish members' income or net worth, so their actual
spending power is difficult to gauge. Hollywood strivers, fashion models,
financiers and minor European royalty have been admitted inside its virtual
velvet rope. But users also include publicists and party promoters who use the
site as a personal database. In theory, they are just a few clicks away from Mr.
Weinstein, a member, or boldface names like Naomi Campbell, Quentin Tarantino
and Frederic Fekkai. (Sycophants beware: members who engage in cyber-social
climbing may find themselves exiled to the chilly Siberia of a Big World,
aSmallWorld's less-exclusive sister site.)

The site has drawn enough notice to breed its share of copycats. Milton Pedraza
of the Luxury Institute, a New York research group, plans to introduce Luxury
Ratings.com early next year as an advertising-free, gated online community;
members will pay an annual subscribers' fee of $250. He says  members will each
have a net worth in the millions or tens of millions. ''They are not only
resilient,'' he said, ''they are nearly immune to a housing or stock market
downturn.''

Small World loyalists seem content. Laura Rubin, a brand consultant and fashion
publicist in New York, uses her personal network of about 170 members to build
her business. ''It's like a Rolodex,'' she said. Last month she combed that base
for guests to attend a fashion  party in the glass-enclosed penthouse of Hotel
on  Rivington on the Lower East Side.

Etienne Deyans, a party promoter from Zaire, mines his network of contacts to
toss together weekly galas with international themes in the cavelike basement of
Amalia, a restaurant in Midtown. ''It's a civilized way to have people meet,''
Mr. Deyans said. ''Here, I tell myself, there will be no rudeness at the door.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 13, 2007



CORRECTION: A picture caption last week with an article about an invitation-only
social networking Web site misstated its address. It is aSmallWorld.net, not
aSmallWorld.com.

  Also, the article misspelled the given name and surname of one of the site's
investors. He is Alexandre von Furstenberg, not Alexander Von Furstenberg.

The article also misstated the number of registered users for the site. There
are 270,000, not 150,000. And it referred incorrectly to a recent members'
gathering to sample advertisers' products. There were 200 people tasting Remy
Martin Cognac that cost $4,000 a bottle; there were not 4,000 bottles costing
$200 each.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BY INVITATION: The guest list for a party at Hotel on Rivington
in New York was mined from aSmallWorld.com. Below, Erik Wachtmeister, the Web
site's founder, in Stockholm. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY: ABOVE, CHRISTOPHER
LONDON/MANHATTANSOCIETY
 BELOW, DEAN C. K. COX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               54 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 9, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Even in a Virtual World, 'Stuff' Matters

BYLINE: By SHIRA BOSS

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 2352 words


IT'S payday for Janine Hawkins. Not in the real world, where she is a student at
Nipissing University in Ontario, but in the online world of Second Life, where
she is managing editor of the fashion magazine Second Style.

Ms. Hawkins, who in Second Life takes on the persona of Iris Ophelia, a beauty
with flowing hair and flawless skin, keeps a list of things she wants to buy:
the latest outfits from the virtual fashion mecca Last Call, a new hairstyle
from a Japanese designer, slouchy boots. When she receives her monthly salary in
Linden dollars, the currency of Second Life,  she spends up to four hours
shopping, clicking and buying. After a year and a half, she owns 31,540 items.

Living it up in Second Life is a break from Ms. Hawkins's part-time job as a
French translator, but she works just as hard in the virtual world.

Last month, she earned 40,000 Linden dollars ($150), for interviewing designers,
arranging fashion shoots and writing about trends in Second Life, called SL by
frequent users. ''I usually spend what I earn,'' Ms. Hawkins said. ''It's
entertaining.''

It also says a lot about the real world, especially when it comes to earning and
spending money.

When people are given the opportunity to create a fantasy world, they can and do
defy the laws of gravity (you can fly in Second Life), but not of economics or
human nature. Players in this digital, global game don't have to work, but many
do. They don't need to change clothes, fix their hair, or buy and furnish a
home, but many do. They don't need to have drinks in their hands at the virtual
bar, but they buy cocktails anyway, just to look right, to feel comfortable.

Second Life residents find ways to make money so they can spend it to do things,
look impressive, and get more stuff, even if it's made only of pixels. In a
place where people should never have to clean out their closets, some end up
devoting hours to organizing their things, purging, even holding yard sales.

''Why can't we break away from a consumerist, appearance-oriented culture?''
said Nick Yee, who has studied the sociology of virtual worlds and recently
received a doctorate in communication from Stanford. ''What does Second Life say
about us, that we trade our consumerist-oriented culture for one that's even
worse?''

Second Life, a three-dimensional world built by hundreds of thousands  of users
over the Internet, is also being used for education, meetings, marketing and
more obvious game playing. It's a wide world with a lot going on, in multiple
languages, and it can be real-life enhancing for populations who are isolated
for physical, mental, or geographic reasons. But as a petri dish for examining
what makes many of us tick, Second Life reveals just how deep-seated  the drive
is to fit in, look good and get ahead in a material world.

Many residents have lived the American dream in Second Life, and built
Linden-dollar fortunes through entrepreneurship. In what could have been an
ideal world, however, or one where anyone could be a Harry Potter, Second Life
has an up-and-down economy, mortgage payments, risky investments, land barons,
evictions, designer rip-offs, scams and squatters. Not to mention peer pressure.

''Second Life is about getting the better clothes and the bigger build and the
reputation as a better builder,'' said Julian Dibbell, author of ''Play Money,''
which chronicles his year of trying to make a living by trading virtual goods in
online games. ''The basic activity is still the keeping up with the Joneses, or
getting ahead of the Joneses, rat race game.''

TO have a Second Life, one needs a computer, the Second Life software, and a
high-speed Internet connection. You use a credit card to buy Lindens, and
Lindens earned during the game can be converted back into dollars via online
currency exchanges. Players start by choosing one of the standard characters,
called an avatar, and can roam the world by flying or ''teleporting'' (click and
go). Nobody can go hungry, there is no actual need for warmer clothes or
shelter, and there is much to do without buying Lindens.

But walking around in a standard avatar, when there are so many ways to buy a
better appearance, is like showing up for the first day of school dressed
differently than all the other kids. You stick out as different, as an SL
''newbie.''

''It's hard not to fall into that,'' Mr. Yee said. ''There are shops everywhere,
so it's easy to say, 'Oh, O.K., I guess I'll get a better pair of jeans.' ''

Second Life was started in 2003 by a Silicon Valley techie inspired by a sci-fi
novel, ''Snow Crash.'' It is owned by a private company called Linden Lab. The
original idea of the game was to unleash creativity.  Residents don't have to
wear the latest fashions; they don't have to look -- or act -- human at all.
They can take any animal, robotic, or inanimate form they want.

And while there is a minority population of animal characters, and wearing
butterfly wings is currently in vogue for humans, for the most part the
population  is  young women bursting from their blouses and young men bulging
with muscle. (Underneath the clothes are cyber genitalia, sold separately. Mark
Wallace, a blogger who writes about Second Life, explained that the parts are
not fashion accessories but rather ''a functional appliance'' for, ahem,
entertainment purposes.)

While a frequent criticism of Second Life is that spaces are often empty and
that there's ''nothing to do,'' a crowd can be found at the mall, just as it can
in suburbia. For example, the Xcite! store, which sells body parts, is ''always
crawling with avatars,'' said Mr. Wallace, co-author of a forthcoming book,
''The Second Life Herald.'' Fashion is big business in Second Life, along with
entertainment and land development.

Big corporations like Toyota have set up islands in Second Life for marketing.
Calvin Klein came up with a virtual perfume. Kraft set up a grocery store
featuring its new products. But those destinations are not popular.

''These brands that have this real-world cachet are meaningless in Second Life,
so most are ignored,'' said Wagner James Au, who blogs and writes books about
Second Life. ''Just showing up and announcing 'We're Calvin Klein' isn't going
to get you anywhere.'' American Apparel closed its virtual clothing shop, and
Wells Fargo abandoned the island it had set up to teach about personal finance.

Second Life exclusives do exist: A magic wand was a hot item at one point, and
the sex bed is currently in demand. (''If you lie on it with more than one
avatar, it's like you're in a porn movie,'' Mr. Au explained.)

But the more mundane items are what really drive the economy: clothes, gadgetry,
night life, real estate. ''People buy these huge McMansions in Second Life that
are just as ugly as any McMansions in real life, because to them that is what's
status-y,'' Mr. Wallace said. ''It's not as easy as we think to let our
imaginations run wild, in Second Life or in real life.''

Mitch Ratcliffe, an entrepreneur and blogger, was an early resident of Second
Life and built a house with a lake. But he was soon disillusioned with the
upkeep involved with owning the property. ''I don't see why I would want my
second life to be about the same striving and profit that my first is,'' Mr.
Ratcliffe wrote in a blog entry about his Second Life adventures. He eventually
reincarnated himself as Homeless Hermes.

''People come by, see the user name and tell me how sorry they are that I don't
have a home. Why?'' he wrote. ''It's very middle class, very staid in the way
economic stigma is attached to a failure to get to work.'' In the meantime,
Homeless Hermes took up buying and selling virtual land and has pocketed the
equivalent of $800.

Land is the biggest-ticket item in Second Life, with Linden Lab selling islands
for $1,675, plus a $295-a-month maintenance charge.) Catherine A. Fitzpatrick, a
Russian translator in New York who in Second Life is a landlord known as Prokofy
Neva, got into the game three years ago and now owns hundreds of apartment
buildings, houses and stores that she rents out to about 1,500 tenants who pay
from $1.50 a month to $150 a month. She takes several hundred dollars a month
out of the game to pay real-world bills. Prokofy Neva herself does not have a
house. ''If I did, I would rent it out,'' she said. ''Why not make money from
it?''

She has, however, turned over virtual acreage for a land preserve and public
use. She and an architect friend were initially entranced by the idea of
creating artistic homes that could defy gravity, but they discovered that there
wasn't demand for that in Second Life.

''The average person wants a ranch house or a beach house,'' she said. ''They
don't want even Frank Lloyd Wright.'' (She added, ''These people are my
customers, so I respect that.'')

Some residents do wear grunge clothing -- itself a status symbol in Second Life
because of the difficulty of replicating ripped and stained clothing digitally.
But the largest slice of the population follows the crowd, and the crowd is not
dressing up as dragons.

''The money is in the real-looking stuff: making skins with red lips and smoky
eyes, and stiletto boots,'' said Ms. Hawkins, the Second Life fashion writer.
First comes something popular, then the knockoffs. Soon everyone has one.
''People go for similar looks and similar things,'' she said.

In Ms. Hawkins's online closet are avatars that let her move around as a rubber
ducky or as a fruit salad encased in gelatin. But those identities are novelty
items that usually stay on the shelf. When she goes out in virtual public, Ms.
Hawkins usually takes the form of Ms. Ophelia, who has more than 250 pairs of
shoes.

Items are real-world cheap --  an outfit usually costs $2 to $5 --  but they can
add up quickly. ''It's so easy to buy something, you don't realize how much
you're spending,'' said Carrie Mandel, a homemaker and mother in Chicago who
spends two work days a week  as well as  evenings and weekends on her Second
Life business, selling pets.

One coveted status symbol in Second Life is a souped-up muscle car called the
Dominus Shadow. It currently costs 2,368 Linden dollars, about $9 at the current
rate of 268 Linden per dollar. Many players pay that much every month for
premium membership that lets them own land, and all are sitting at computers
with high-speed Internet access. So why don't more people treat themselves to
the prized possession of a Dominus?

''It's expensive in-world,'' said Daniel Terdiman, author of the forthcoming
book ''Entrepreneur's Guide to Second Life.'' ''You don't think of how much
things cost in real dollars; you think in Linden dollars. When something is
expensive, even though it comes out to a few dollars, a lot of people don't want
to spend that much money.''

Although Linden dollars can be bought with a credit card, there is evidence that
the in-world economy is self-sustaining, with many players compelled to earn a
living in-world and  live on a budget.

Surprisingly, many take on low-paying jobs. They work as nightclub bouncers,
hostesses, sales clerks and exotic dancers for typical wages of 50 to 150 Linden
dollars an hour, the equivalent of 19 to 56 cents. A recent classified ad
stated: ''I am looking for a good job in SL. I am sick of working off just
tips.'' This  job seeker listed potential occupations as landscaper, personal
assistant, actor, waitress and talent scout.

Second Life players are evidently discovering what inheritors have struggled
with for generations: It's not as much fun to spend money you haven't earned.
Apparently, despite the common lottery-winning fantasies, all play and no work
is a dull game, after all.

''People don't take jobs just for the money,'' said Dan Siciliano, who teaches
finance at Stanford Law School and has studied the economies of virtual worlds.
''They do it to feel important and be rewarded.''

And to buy more things. ''A lot of exotic dancers want to become models, so they
can earn more money to buy more clothes,'' Ms. Hawkins said.

It's not just vanity that drives people to dress up in Second Life. It's also
seen as good for business. Ms. Fitzpatrick, the landlady, says she doesn't
really care about how her avatar looks. But she cares about what prospective
tenants think. ''I felt I had to go, finally, and buy the hair and the suit,''
she said, ''or my customers might think I'm too weird.''

Appearances count in Second Life's financial world, too. Banks and stock
exchanges are housed in huge, formal structures draped in marble and glass.
''People in the banking industry wear shiny silver suits and are absurdly tall
and have hired a couple people to walk behind them in black suits with ear bugs
and shoulder holsters,'' said Benjamin Duranske, a lawyer who blogs about legal
issues related to the virtual world.

THE stock exchanges and banks in SL are imposing, but they are unregulated and
unmonitored. Investors fed Linden dollars into savings accounts at Ginko
Financial bank, hoping to earn the promised double-digit interest. Some did, but
in July there was a run on the bank and panic spread as Ginko A.T.M.'s
eventually stopped giving depositors their money back. The bank has since
vanished. With no official law and order in Second Life,  investors have little
recourse.

Robert J. Bloomfield, a behavioral economist at Cornell University, studies
investor behavior in the real world and recently became interested in how
investors behave similarly in Second Life. ''We know the little guy makes lots
of dumb mistakes,'' Professor Bloomfield said. ''They tend to be overly
impressed by the trappings of success. We see that magnified in Second Life.''

Some Second Life residents are calling for in-world regulatory agencies  -- the
user-run Second Life Exchange Commission has just begun operating  -- and some
expect real-world institutions to become involved as the Second Life  population
and economy expands. ''It's a horse race as to whether the I.R.S. or S.E.C. will
start noticing first,'' Mr. Duranske said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Janine Hawkins with her Second Life avatar Iris Ophelia. In the
virtual world, Ms. Hawkins earns Linden dollars and spends them freely.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ED REGAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 1)
 The fashion-conscious female avatars in Second Life often shop for a
provocative look. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LINDEN LAB)(pg. 9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               55 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 12, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Who Needs Hackers?

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

SECTION: Section H; Column 0; ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1643 words


NOTHING was moving. International travelers flying into Los Angeles
International Airport -- more than 17,000 of them -- were stuck on planes for
hours one day in mid-August after computers for the United States Customs and
Border Protection agency went down and stayed down for nine hours.

Hackers? Nope. Though it was the kind of chaos that malevolent computer
intruders always seem to be creating in the movies, the problem was traced to a
malfunctioning network card on a desktop computer. The flawed card slowed the
network and set off a domino effect as failures rippled through the customs
network at the airport, officials said.

Everybody knows hackers are the biggest threat to computer networks, except that
it ain't necessarily so.

Yes, hackers are still out there, and not just teenagers: malicious insiders,
political activists, mobsters and even government agents all routinely test
public and private computer networks and occasionally disrupt services. But
experts say that some of the most serious, even potentially devastating,
problems with networks arise from sources with no malevolent component.

Whether it's the Los Angeles customs fiasco or the unpredictable network cascade
that brought the global Skype telephone service down for two days in August,
problems arising from flawed systems, increasingly complex networks and even
technology headaches from corporate mergers can make computer systems less
reliable. Meanwhile, society as a whole is growing ever more dependent on
computers and computer networks, as automated controls become the norm for air
traffic, pipelines, dams, the electrical grid and more.

''We don't need hackers to break the systems because they're falling apart by
themselves,'' said Peter G. Neumann, an expert in computing risks and principal
scientist at SRI International, a research institute in Menlo Park, Calif.

Steven M. Bellovin, a professor of computer science at Columbia University,
said: ''Most of the problems we have day to day have nothing to do with malice.
Things break. Complex systems break in complex ways.''

When the electrical grid went out in the summer of 2003 throughout the Eastern
United States and Canada, ''it wasn't any one thing, it was a cascading set of
things,'' Mr. Bellovin noted.

That is why Andreas M. Antonopoulos, a founding partner at Nemertes Research, a
technology research company in Mokena, Ill., says, ''The threat is complexity
itself.''

Change is the fuel of business, but it also introduces complexity, Mr.
Antonopoulos said, whether by bringing together incompatible computer networks
or simply by growing beyond the network's ability to keep up.

''We have gone from fairly simple computing architectures to massively
distributed, massively interconnected and interdependent networks,'' he said,
adding that as a result, flaws have become increasingly hard to predict or spot.
Simpler systems could be understood and their behavior characterized, he said,
but greater complexity brings unintended consequences.

''On the scale we do it, it's more like forecasting weather,'' he said.

Kenneth M. Ritchhart, the chief information officer for the customs and border
agency, agreed that complexity was at the heart of the problem at the Los
Angeles airport. ''As we move from stovepipes to interdependent systems,'' he
said, ''it becomes increasingly difficult to identify and correct problems.''

At first,  the agency thought the source of the trouble was routers, not the
network cards. ''Many times the problems you see that you try to correct are not
the root causes of the problem,'' he said.

And even though his department takes the threat of hacking and malicious
cyberintruders seriously, he said, ''I've got a list of 16 things that I try to
address in terms of outages -- only one of them is cyber-  or malicious
attacks.'' Others include national power failures, data corruption and physical
attacks on facilities.

In the case of Skype, the company -- which says it has more than 220 million
users, with millions online at any time -- was deluged on Aug. 16 with login
attempts by computers that had restarted after downloading a security update for
Microsoft's Windows operating system. A company employee, Villu Arak, posted a
note online that blamed  a ''massive restart of our users' computers across the
globe within a very short time frame'' for the 48-hour failure, saying it had
overtaxed the network. Though the company has software to ''self-heal'' in such
situations, ''this event revealed a previously unseen software bug'' in the
program that allocates computing resources.

As computer networks are cobbled together, said Matt Moynahan, the chief
executive of Veracode, a security company, ''the Law of the Weakest Link always
seems to prevail.'' Whatever flaw or weakness allows a problem to occur
compromises the entire system, just as one weak section of a levee can inundate
an entire community, he said.

This is not a new problem, of course. The first flight of the space shuttle in
1981 was delayed minutes before launching because of a previously undetected
software problem.

The ''bug heard round the world,'' as a former NASA software engineer, John B.
Garman, put it in a technical paper, came down to a failure that would emerge
only if a certain sequence of events occurred -- and even then only once in 64
times. He wrote: ''It is complexity of design and process that got us (and
Murphy's Law!). Complexity in the sense that we, the 'software industry,' are
still naive and forge into large systems such as this with too little computer,
budget, schedule and definition of the software code.''

In another example, the precursor to the Internet known as the Arpanet collapsed
for four hours in 1980 after years of smooth functioning. According to Dr.
Neumann of SRI, the collapse ''resulted from an unforeseen interaction among
three different causes'' that included what he called ''an overly lazy garbage
collection algorithm'' that allowed the errors to accumulate and overwhelm the
fledgling network.

Where are the weaknesses most likely to have grave consequences? Every expert
has a suggestion.

Aviel D. Rubin, a professor of computer science at Johns Hopkins University,
said that glitches could be an enormous problem in high-tech voting machines.
''Maybe we have focused too much on hackers and not on the possibility of
something going wrong,'' he said. ''Sometimes the worst problems happen by
accident.''

Dr. Rubin, who is director of the Center for Correct, Usable, Reliable,
Auditable and Transparent Elections, a group financed by the National Science
Foundation to study voting issues, noted that glitches had already shown up in
many elections using the new generation of voting machines sold to states in the
wake of the Florida election crisis in 2000, when the fate of the national
election came down to issues like hanging chads on punch-card ballots.

Dr. Bellovin at Columbia said he also worried about what might happen with the
massively complex antimissile systems that the government is developing. ''It's
a system you can't really test until the real thing happens,'' he said.

There are better ways.

Making systems strong enough to recover quickly from the inevitable glitches and
problems can keep disruption to a minimum. The customs service came under some
of the most heated criticism for not having a backup plan that could quickly
compensate for the network flameout; eventually, airport officials had to
provide fuel to the planes so that the airlines could run the air-conditioning,
and provided food, beverages and diapers to the trapped passengers.

Mr. Ritchhart said it was unfair to characterize his department as having no
backup plan. In fact, there were two -- but neither addressed the problem. The
main backup plan envisions a shutdown of the national customs network, and
allows local networks to function independently. Since it was the local network
that was in trouble at Los Angeles, he said, that backup plan did not work.

The other fallback involves setting up customs agents with laptops that are
equipped to scan the millions of names on the watchlists and to perform other
functions. That system was put in place, he said, but the laptops operate at
one-third the speed of the computer network, and the delays persisted.  The
agency is reviewing its policies to improve its response, he said, and if a
similar slowdown occurs, is considering having agents call colleagues in other
cities to perform searches on functioning parts of the network.

The best answer, Dr. Neumann says, is to build computers that are secure and
stable from the start. A system with fewer flaws also deters hackers, he said.
''If you design the thing right in the first place, you can make it reliable,
secure, fault tolerant and human safe,'' he said. ''The technology is there to
do this right if anybody wanted to take the effort.''

He was part of an effort that began in the 1960s to develop a rock-solid
network-operating system known as Multics, but those efforts gave way to more
commercially successful systems. Multics' creators were so farsighted, Dr.
Neumann recalled, that its designers even anticipated and prevented the ''Year
2000'' problem that had to be corrected in other computers. That flaw, known as
Y2K, caused some machines to malfunction if they detected dates after Jan. 1,
2000. Billions of dollars were spent to prevent problems.

Dr. Neumann, who has been preaching network stability since the 1960s, said,
''The message never got through.'' Pressures to ship software and hardware
quickly and to keep costs at a minimum, he said, have worked against more secure
and robust systems.

''We throw this together, shrink wrap it and throw it out there,'' he said.
''There's no incentive to do it right, and that's pitiful.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LONG WAIT: Some of the thousands of passengers delayed in Los
Angeles by a customs computer failure lined up for screening.
 GLITCH: Relatives and friends waited for  travelers at the Los Angeles airport
in August after U.S. Customs  computers failed and passengers were kept on
planes. (pg. H6)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAN STEINBERG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) DRAWING (DRAWING
BY LOU BEACH)(pg. H1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               56 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 16, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

THE REMIX Now Playing Hip Vids

BYLINE: By JONATHAN S. PAUL

SECTION: Section P2; Column 0; T: Men's Fashion Magazine; Pg. 80

LENGTH: 161 words


Video-game fanatics have countless social handicaps -- chief among them the
hours they spend blasting aliens. But this fall the slick virtual community Home
(a free download via PlayStation 3) will give gamers game. Like the online
digital world Second Life, only more stylish and more realistic, Home offers
inhabitants a free 3-D playground where grooving with models on the deck of a
bachelor pad is perfectly normal. Gamers can design their avatar to look
lifelike or Pitt-like and will eventually be able to dress it in branded
outfits, maybe even a cyber Jil Sander suit. Players can decorate apartments,
arranging furniture, hanging artwork and choosing wallpaper -- and if the crib
feels too small, they can upgrade to a penthouse. To make use of all of these
status symbols, they can proposition strangers with preprogrammed pickup lines.
If designer clothes and witticisms fail to lure companions, Sony says, Home
gamers will have the option of getting a dog.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLOCKWISE FROM TOP: BEN WELLER
FROM AITOR THROUP
 SONY COMPUTER ENTERTAINMENT. LEFT: ALL IMAGES PROVIDED BY DESIGNERS (7))

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               57 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Watching a Cyber Audience Watch a Real Orchestra Perform in a Virtual World

BYLINE: By ANNE MIDGETTE

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 973 words


People really dress for concerts around here. One man sports a bright purple
suit, with a hat and roller skates to match. A woman wears a gown that appears
to be made of peacock feathers, and a large blue butterfly flaps gently in
circles around her.

We're not in Kansas anymore, or even in Liverpool, England, where the Royal
Liverpool Philharmonic opened its season on Friday night. For the occasion the
orchestra went to the unusual extreme of building a new hall: a virtual
environment in the online world Second Life. In a virtual replica of the  Art
Deco hall, an audience of animated figures, known as avatars, watched the
orchestra perform live in a choppy video streamed over the Internet on a screen
at the front of the room.

Call it the future, call it a stunt, Second Life is attracting more and more
attention, and classical music is starting to get in on the act. Universal
Classics  has built an online island where visitors can inspect a replica of the
exhibition of artifacts associated with the legendary mezzo-soprano Maria
Malibran that is now touring  Europe to promote Cecilia Bartoli's next
Malibran-themed album.

In May the pianist Lang Lang, in the form of an avatar, gave a live concert. And
the Liverpool was the third orchestra to give a live concert on Second Life this
year, after Sinfonia Leeds, an amateur group in England, and Red $(an$)
orchestra 4/5, a chamber ensemble in Cleveland.

There are technical and conceptual hurdles in watching animations play live
music in a virtual world. A YouTube video of a Dutch pianist playing Beethoven's
''Pathetique'' Sonata on Second Life illustrates some of the issues: the
performance is fine, but the figure's fingers keep disappearing into the keys.

''It's an odd medium,'' said John Shibley, the director of organizational
learning at the consulting company EmcArts, which helped manage Red's
performance. ''It's sort of like listening to the radio and watching a puppet
show, and the puppet show is not synched to the radio.''

Each of the three orchestras to perform so far has taken a different approach.
Leeds offered live streaming audio, with a small orchestra of miming avatars.
Red created the equivalent of a television broadcast. Liverpool opted for a
cheaper solution: a single static camera.

This approach, though inelegant, may have been the most workable. Red's chief
executive, John Farina, estimated that had the orchestra not received many
services pro bono, its event would have cost around $200,000. The orchestra was
left with a professional-quality broadcast tape, which, because of restrictions
in its contract with its musicians, it cannot broadcast  again.

Liverpool, by contrast, paid only $16,000 or so, $6,000 of which went to buying
the ''sims''  on which the concert hall was built. (A sim is the unit of land on
Second Life.) The orchestra also has the advantage of a new contract with its
musicians that involved buying their potential share in broadcast rights.

''We can use any material in any way we like,'' said Millicent Jones, the
orchestra's executive director of marketing and communications, who is already
looking into future Second Life performances.

There are certainly limitations to the Second Life concert experience. A sim can
hold only 50 to 70 avatars without crashing, so even though Liverpool built its
hall over two sims and broadcast the concert to other Second Life locations, it
had a relatively small audience.

And as with any streamed Internet broadcast, transmission quality depends on
your Internet connection. On my computer the sound was so distorted that a
preconcert lecture was utterly unintelligible; the soprano, Kate Royal, sounded
as if she were singing a duet with herself in Ravel's ''Sheherazade.'' It was
impossible to assess the music, which included world premieres by Kenneth
Hesketh and John McCabe.

Other listeners said their connections were fine. And afterward the audience,
congregating in the bar for virtual drinks and a question-and-answer session
with the conductor, Vasily Petrenko, seemed to have loved the whole thing --
perhaps as much for the experience as for the music.

''Classical music is not very accessible where I am, so I really appreciated
it,'' said a user whose Second Life name was Nobody Fugazi.

Despite predictions that virtual worlds will become increasingly prevalent, the
technology of Second Life is in its infancy. Both within classical music and
outside it, there is debate about whether the place represents a brave new world
or simply a curiosity.

''It's still kind of in the stunt phase,'' said the conductor Michael Tilson
Thomas, though he personally knows the people at Linden Labs who invented the
site and is a fan of the novel ''Snow Crash,'' by Neal Stephenson, which
inspired it. He and Linden Labs, he said, are ''talking in friendly stages about
something we might do.''

Jonathan Gruber, the vice president for new media of Universal Music Group,
said: ''We're not 100 percent sold on it. It's experimental. We are interested
in making sure that if there are opportunities for us to reach people through a
medium like Second Life, we're there for it.''

The medium may be cutting-edge, but tastes remain rather conservative. Some
listeners reacted in horror to the exuberant loudness of Mr. Hesketh's piece,
and one called  it  ''just noise.''

Dave Schwartz, the founder of Music Academy Online, where he conducts small
listening sessions, dreams of bringing classical music to a wider audience by
creating a ''Disney World of classical music'' on Second Life.

But Mr. Schwartz is also trying to bring newer music to this environment. .

''You haven't heard 'Poeme Electronique,' '' he  said, referring to a piece by
Edgard Varese, ''till you've heard it streamed over the Internet in a virtual
world.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: While the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic played, above, a
technician uploaded footage of the concert onto the online world Second Life. At
left, avatars watch the orchestra.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROGAN MACDONALD FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               58 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 23, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

East Races Are as Different As N.L. and A.L.

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY.

E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 806 words


At 6:08 p.m. on my laptop digital clock yesterday, both New York teams had the
bases loaded. Alex Rodriguez was at bat in the Bronx while Carlos Delgado was up
in Florida, two of the great hitters of this generation.

This is the way we follow baseball races these days, not like in the old days
when I was a kid, when one game arrived via a squawky radio with the other vital
game clattering away in the background on a Western Union ticker.

Virtually in unison, like some weird cyber version of synchronized swimming,
Rodriguez doubled for two runs in humid Yankee Stadium and Delgado walked for
one run in humid Dolphin Stadium.

Welcome to the pennant races of 2007, involving ancient Northeast baseball
towns. The Yanks went on to beat Toronto, 12-11, in the 10th inning on a single
by Melky Cabrera, who drove in five runs over all, to keep the Yankees hopeful,
with the benevolence of the wild card.

After the 14-inning horror show late Friday, Joe Torre needed to run in the
junior varsity yesterday, conducting a game of musical chairs to see if any of
the reserve pitchers could be trusted in the postseason. As far as I can tell,
nobody made the cut, except for that young feller, No. 42.

To the naked eye, the Yanks and the Red Sox seem to be performing one of those
old DiMaggio-Williams or Munson-Fisk duels to the death, but the wild card winks
at both historic franchises, now joined at the hip in the same Eastern division.

After yesterday's rain-delayed five-hour marathon, the Yanks trail the Red Sox,
who won last night, by two and a half games, but also hold a
five-and-a-half-game lead over the Tigers, who lost, in the much-less-taut race
for the wild-card spot. Despite assorted horrors of Friday night and yesterday,
the Yanks are quite likely to be playing in October.

Meanwhile, the Mets and the Phillies are involved in the real thing, a high-wire
act with much less of a safety net, replete with slippery palms and swaying
trapezes and risky leaps. Once so frisky, the Mets should be very grateful that
the National League schedule has them playing the dispirited Marlins four times
this weekend and three times next weekend. The Mets  beat the Marlins, 7-2,
yesterday, to remain a game and a half  ahead of the Phillies, who won last
night. The Phillies were a game behind the Padres, who played late. There may
not be room for both the Mets and the Phillies in the postseason.

These late-season machinations have existed since 1995, when the wild card
arrived and was immediately legitimized by the magnificent struggle of  the
wild-card Yanks and Mariners, who had to win a special playoff to get into the
postseason.

But there seems to be a code about not taking the wild-card spot for granted.
From time to time, Torre recalls how he was criticized -- or beat up, or whacked
-- for seeming to settle for the wild card while the Yankees were slipping into
the fourth and last playoff spot in 1997.

Who whacked Torre? George Steinbrenner, back when he was still terrorizing his
employees, informed Torre in public that true Yankees never accept second best.
So now Torre talks gamely of winning it all. He'll have a better shot once he
hides all the suspects he trotted out of the bullpen yesterday.

The other New York team, despite a bad case of the staggers recently, is still
leading the division in one of the best races between these two neighboring
cities since the Brooklyn Dodgers and the Phillies went into the last Sunday of
the 1950 season. Richie Ashburn threw out Cal Abrams, who was carrying the
winning run in the bottom of the ninth, and the Phillies won the pennant an
inning later. Now that was a pennant race. They don't exist like that anymore.

Unfortunately, for dramatic purposes, the Mets and the Phillies do not meet in
the final week. It would be great theater, a la 1950, but since the Mets have
lost eight straight to the Phillies, they are not going to lament the vagaries
of the schedule.

The Mets' desperation was on display Friday night as wily but diminished Pedro
Martinez willed himself into five innings against a lousy team. There just may
be a hex on the Marlins' ownership for being so quick to dump the demanding Joe
Girardi after he made them respectable last season. The Mets seem to be showing
the stress, with two players as different as can be, the immature Lastings
Milledge and the dependable Marlon Anderson, both earning suspensions for
separately losing their cool. And the Mets' base running has generally been
numb.

The mantra for the Mets is ''not enough'' -- to be uttered whenever the Mets
take leads big or small, particularly with Billy Wagner suffering from back
spasms. The Yankees' soft underbelly of a bullpen is no better, with more tense
moments guaranteed to arrive, in person, on the airwaves and flickering on the
laptop.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               59 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 30, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Tweens to Teenagers, a Magazine

BYLINE: By DIANA MARSZALEK

SECTION: Section 14WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; NOTICED; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 429 words


White Plains

AT 12 years old, Benjamin Rodriguez, a seventh grader at Riverside High
School/Museum Middle School in Yonkers, is already an experienced magazine
writer.

He is one of a cadre of school-age writers and illustrators who have been
published in Kids X-Press, a nonprofit magazine written exclusively by and for
children. This summer, for example, he covered the Empire Games when they came
to the county for the first time.

''It feels good that I got published, and it is out there for everyone to see,''
he said. ''Once I did it the first time, I wanted to do it again.''

Though generally far-reaching, covering everything from fashion to families,
Kids X-Press is putting out an entire issue next month on a single subject, one
that strikes too close to home for many of its young authors: violence.

Nivia Viera, the magazine's publisher, said topics would address everything from
cyber-bullying and pranks to gang activity and domestic abuse. The issue, called
''Stop the Violence,'' is being sponsored by the county government.

About 100 children have contributed,  said Ms. Viera, who compiles the
submissions.

''It's risky, and the most challenging subject Kids X-Press has had to deal
with, because we are approaching kids to write about the day-to-day realities of
violence in their communities and how it affects them,'' Ms. Viera said.

''And the kids have been courageous and honest in their writing.''

Ms. Viera, a former health care administrator and mother of one who lives in
White Plains, started the magazine on a small scale with two other parents five
years ago. The magazine now comes out four times a year and distributes about
130,000 copies annually throughout the area, including New York City.

Submissions range from first-person stories, opinion pieces, poetry and
question-and-answer pages, to interviews with notables like Senator Hillary
Rodham Clinton and the Cheetah Girls. The $250,000 a year it costs to publish
comes from donations and sponsors.

No one's work is turned down, Ms. Viera said. ''Self-expression is really the
key here,'' she said. ''This is their voice.''

The majority of contributors, ages 7 to 14, come from area after-school programs
in schools, nonprofit groups and shelters. Benjamin, for example, discovered the
magazine because he spends his afternoons at the Elm Street Neighborhood Center,
a hub for Yonkers youths.

''It's really a big deal,'' Raymond Reid, the center's site manager, said of the
magazine. ''It's something here that our kids otherwise wouldn't have a chance
to be part of.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               60 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 2, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rapper's Old Label Cries Foul Over a New Version of His Hit

BYLINE: By JEFF LEEDS

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1124 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 1


It's an annoying quirk of fame that has riled everyone from Taylor Hicks to
Kanye West: when new recording talents break through, they are often faced with
the threat that an owner of their old, unpolished recordings will try to ride
their coattails and package the music for a quick buck. It's a particular
headache for big record companies, which have long complained that such
blast-from-the-past sales piggyback on their painstaking promotional work.

But the case of Gucci Mane and Atlantic Records v. Marlon Rowe, in Federal
District Court in Manhattan, offers a new twist on the game. In this instance --
a story that involves an accused killer, allegations of recording-studio
espionage and a lyrical tribute to Rick James -- it's an artist's early
associates who argue that Atlantic, an industry powerhouse, is doing the
piggybacking.  Gucci Mane, an Atlanta rap artist, has a budding hit on the
radio, a song called ''Freaky Gurl,'' that he first included on a CD released
last year by Mr. Rowe's tiny independent label, Big Cat Records. Atlantic bought
out Gucci Mane's contract shortly after the album came out but had been unable
to score a new hit for him. So instead, the label and Gucci Mane created a
re-recording of ''Freaky Gurl,'' which they plan to sell on his coming Atlantic
debut.

''They're trying to hijack my record,'' said Mr. Rowe, whose nickname is Big
Cat. ''They have the resources and the money to create their own hits. They can
work with any producer they want in the world. We're just a small independent
out of Atlanta. It's not fair.''

In response, Mr. Rowe's label last week released a new Gucci Mane album of
previously unreleased songs, including yet another version of ''Freaky Gurl.''
Gucci Mane, whose real name is Radric Davis, issued a statement asking fans not
to buy that album, which he said includes music that is ''unfinished and does
not represent who I am today as an artist.'' Atlantic and its corporate cousin
Asylum Records, which is leading the Gucci Mane campaign, also argue that the
new release violates the terms of their buyout agreement with Big Cat, according
to court records.

Squabbles over song copyrights are nothing new, but perhaps it may not be wise
to take a dispute with Gucci Mane lightly.

In 2005, the rapper was charged with murder in connection with the fatal
shooting of an aspiring rapper who had ties to Gucci Mane's rival, the star
Young Jeezy. Gucci Mane admitted to shooting at an assailant, who with four
others allegedly stormed into a private home in Decatur, Ga., while Gucci Mane
was visiting. But he claimed the shooting was in self-defense, and prosecutors
dropped the charges after deciding they did not have enough evidence to try him.

Young Jeezy denied involvement in the incident, which came as he and Gucci Mane
had been trading menacing songs on underground recordings, including one in
which Young Jeezy offered a bounty for Gucci Mane's diamond neck chain.

Mr. Rowe had his own legal troubles owing to his label's relationship with the
rapper. After a run-in with authorities in Miami, he served more than a year in
prison for illegally carrying a gun, which he said he was for protection while
traveling with Gucci Mane not long after the earlier shooting.

While Mr. Rowe was in prison, Gucci Mane kept drawing attention from fans and
bigger record companies. Mr. Rowe and his partner, Melvin Breeden, agreed to
sell the rights to Gucci Mane's services to Atlantic late last year for $300,000
and a small royalty on the sales of the rapper's first major-label album. Big
Cat's tiny staff, though, continued to market his brand-new independent album,
''Hard to Kill.''

The new chapter of Gucci Mane's career, however, got off to a slow start. His
first new song promoted under the new record deal, ''Bird Flu,'' failed to catch
on. But ''Freaky Gurl,'' a bouncy song from his previous CD in which he offers
explicit dating advice and echoes the classic Rick James song ''Super Freak,''
had been gaining popularity.

Big Cat said Asylum Records approached the label with an offer to buy ''Freaky
Gurl'' for $15,000. A person close to Asylum, who requested anonymity because of
the legal issues surrounding the case, disputed that account, saying it was Big
Cat that first made overtures about selling the song, and that the price
demanded ran into the hundreds of thousands of dollars. Either way, the talks
led nowhere.

But Asylum soon had a new recording of ''Freaky Gurl,'' which is a remix
featuring the rap star Ludacris. (It appears on Gucci Mane's Asylum album,
scheduled for November.) It isn't unheard of for acts who land big record deals
to make new versions of their previous songs; in fact, those songs are often
what catch the attention of talent scouts in the first place. But when it does
happen, the artist or the new label usually buys the old master recordings from
their owner.

Given that Asylum did not buy the original recording, exactly how the song was
made has become a central question of the case. Big Cat executives say they
suspect foul play: Mr. Breeden, Big Cat's president, contends that several weeks
after ''Freaky Gurl'' showed signs of becoming a hit, the song's original
producer, Cyber Sapp, asked for a copy of the software files of the song to work
on a rock-oriented mix but never delivered it.

A person close to Asylum dismissed any suggestion that the producer, whose real
name is Keldrick Sapp, had recycled the original master recording in creating
the new version of the song. And Mr. Sapp said he never received a copy of the
files.

There is another complication, too. Mr. Sapp, who now has a separate deal with
Asylum, has been credited as the producer of the new ''Freaky Gurl'' in
promotional materials for D.J.'s. But Big Cat asserts that, though Gucci Mane
may apparently remake the song, Mr. Sapp's 2006 contract bars him for
re-recording it for three years.

Mr. Sapp, reached last week, said that he, as a co-writer of ''Freaky Gurl,''
consented to the remake, but denied producing it. Asked who did, Mr. Sapp
responded cryptically, ''Keyser Soze,'' a reference to the mysterious criminal
mastermind in the film ''The Usual Suspects.''

Mr. Rowe, watching to see where his new Gucci Mane release enters the chart this
week, sees the affair as a sign of the scrambles set off as rap sales continue a
drastic decline.

''It's hard to get a real hit record,'' he said. ''We spent a lot of money
getting this guy hot.'' Atlantic, he added, is unfairly sponging off of his own
promotional efforts. ''They want you to do all the groundwork and then come and
take all the credit, like they're the one who made this artist who he is. I
really think it's a desperate move.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gucci Mane has a hit with ''Freaky Gurl.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY WALIK
GOSHORN/RETNA)(pg. E1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               61 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 9, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

American Gamers Win World Title

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY COMPILED BY
LAWRENCE VAN GELDER AMERICAN GAMERS WIN WORLD TITLE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 162 words


Upsetting a heavily favored South Korean squad, a group of video gamers from the
United States won the overall team title over the weekend at the World Cyber
Games Grand Final in Seattle. The World Cyber Games is one of the world's
biggest video game tournaments, and the finals drew more than 700 players from
74 countries. Competing in 12 PC and Xbox 360 games, the United States team won
three gold medals, in Dead or Alive 4, Gears of War and Tony Hawk Project 8.
South Korea and Brazil each took two gold medals, and Germany won one. In his
first professional tournament Dustin Valcalda of Reno, Nev., went undefeated in
Tony Hawk. Over all, the tournament awarded more than $500,000 in cash and
prizes. ''With so many quality video game players representing 74 countries this
weekend, e-sports continues to gain popularity and worldwide acceptance,''
Hyoung-Seok Kim, chief executive of International Cyber Marketing, the
tournament's organizer, said in a statement.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               62 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           October 10, 2007 Wednesday

Free the Avatars

BYLINE: STEVE LOHR

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 343 words



HIGHLIGHT: Virtual worlds may be freewheeling environments where cyber-behavior
is unconstrained by many terrestrial mores. But they are also gated communities,
and the gates keep the digital denizens locked inside.


 Virtual worlds may be freewheeling environments where cyber-behavior is
unconstrained by many terrestrial mores. But they are also gated communities,
and the gates keep the digital denizens locked inside.

I.B.M. and Linden Lab, the creator of Second Life, think it's time to free the
avatars.

At the Virtual Worlds Conference and Expo at San Jose, Calif., the two companies
are announcing plans to develop open standards that will allow avatars to roam
from one virtual community to the next. The goal is let a person create a
digital alter-ego that can travel to many virtual worlds, keeping the same name,
look and even digital currency.

The companies speak of "a truly interoperable 3D Internet." Think of it as
passports for avatars. So that pink-headed cutie you made for Second Life can
also take up residence in There.com, The Lounge, Virtual Laguna Beach and
Entropia, for example.

"Now, for every world I touch I have to build an avatar," said Colin Parris, the
I.B.M. vice president in charge of virtual world technology. "It's an obstacle
to the development and spread of virtual worlds, both in the consumer and
corporate space."

The logic of the move is impeccable. The growth of the Internet and the Web,
after all, has been fueled by open standards. The more people who can
communicate, inform and entertain each other freely on a network, the more
valuable it is. Economists call this the "network effect." And the Internet is
the network effect on steroids.

I.B.M. also hosted a meeting on Tuesday in San Jose with a group of companies
and some university researchers to discuss open standards for virtual worlds and
plans for establishing an organization to promote the technologies needed for an
interoperable 3D Internet. The companies included Cisco, Google, Linden Lab,
Sony, Intel, Multiverse, Microsoft, Motorola, Philips and others.

A working group at Linden Lab has set up a forum for allowing Second Life users
help define the direction for what it calls the Second Life Grid, an
interoperable virtual world.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               63 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 11, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Radiohead, Big Enough To Act Like a Baby Band

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1280 words


''It is the 21st century,'' Thom Yorke sings in ''Bodysnatchers'' on ''In
Rainbows,'' Radiohead's new album, and he goes on to add: ''I'm alive.''
Wrenched way out of context -- actually, the song is about a soul trapped within
a zombie -- that could be Radiohead's message to the recording companies that it
has sidestepped.

Without a label or a fixed price,  and not quantifying its sales for pop charts,
''In Rainbows'' is selling copies, being avidly played and making the world pay
attention. That would happen under any circumstances: ''In Rainbows'' is
Radiohead's first album since 2003, and on first hearings it's as bitterly
magnificent as the band's best works, with barbed, intricate vamps wrapped
around thoughts of death, love, futility, stubbornness and rage.

Many Radiohead fans have been listening to songs from ''In Rainbows'' for more
than a year, since the band road-tested them on a 2006 tour and tolerates live
bootlegs. On the album, far from taming the songs in the studio, Radiohead has
burrowed into them, adding more moving parts to make them  bleaker and jumpier.

But a big part of the initial attention comes from the fact that Radiohead
didn't set a price for downloading ''In Rainbows.'' Now that it has completed
the major-label contract under which it sold millions of albums through EMI,
Radiohead has become a cyber-cottage industry -- through its merchandising
company, W.A.S.T.E., named after Thomas Pynchon's underground postal system in
''The Crying of Lot 49'' -- and it has customers pounding on its virtual door.

Some preordered the deluxe $80 package of two CDs (including a second album of
additional tracks), two vinyl LPs and printed matter due in December. Some
ordered the download version -- just 10 medium-quality MP3 files without an
album-cover image -- for as little as a 90-cent credit-card charge, while others
paid whatever they considered a fair price for the album. Radiohead isn't the
first former major-label act to let fans decide what to pay; the Canadian
songwriter Jane Siberry, who now calls herself Issa, did it years earler. But
Radiohead is operating at a different order of magnitude. So many people
responded to its quiet Web site announcement and rapidly multiplying
word-of-Internet that Radiohead's server crashed on Oct. 1.

Radiohead's do-it-yourself, price-it-yourself model recognizes the new digital
facts of life. Bluntly, listeners don't have to pay for recorded music: There
are free versions online, as there are already of ''In Rainbows,'' which was
distributed without any attempt to thwart copying. The fact that fans have paid
to get ''In Rainbows'' is a measure of their eagerness to keep Radiohead writing
songs. And the deeper underlying reality is that fans have always set the value
of music. They are the ones to decide, yes or no, to buy an album, a single or a
concert ticket at the available price. Radiohead's digital-era flexibility
allows more supporters to make themselves known.

Radiohead couldn't be in a better position to market itself online, without
middlemen. It has a huge and loyal, if contentious, fan base that has sold out
arena concerts for more than a decade. Unlike Prince, who chose to go
independent at a much earlier, slower stage of the Internet, Radiohead can count
on broadband access from much of the world. And by all anecdotal evidence,
Radiohead has an overwhelming proportion of its fans online.

Sometimes it seems that most of the Internet bandwidth not occupied by spam and
pornography is filled with bloggers obsessing over Radiohead's every cryptic
lyric and musical aberration -- or today complaining that the ''In Rainbows''
album online is not a full audiophile-quality file, which would be much larger
and slower to download. (One frequent suggestion within the music business is to
offer low-fi music free or inexpensively and higher-quality versions at full or
premium prices, as Radiohead will do with its CD releases of ''In Rainbows.''
But even at 160 kilobits per second (Kbps), ''In Rainbows'' is a sonic notch
above the standard 128 Kbps iTunes download, and on a portable MP3 player
through good earphones, it has plenty of detail.)

In some ways Radiohead now resembles what the music business calls a baby band.
The Internet has equated, though not equalized, the least-known bands with the
best-known independent ones. Like a zillion hopefuls with MySpace pages,
Radiohead records and tours on its own budget and timetable, plays new songs
before they're recorded, lets listeners hear its music with a click or two and
sustains itself primarily through performing and direct sales. Of course, for a
baby band, that generally means selling enough T-shirts to fill the gas tank in
the van to get to the next club gig. Musical skills aside, Radiohead also has
considerably more attention, fame and capital.

Clearly, Radiohead has benefited from a decade of EMI's promotion, publicity and
retailing operations. The band's management has said that when ''In Rainbows''
is sold in stores, it will be distributed by a record company, which would
already have relationships with pressing plants, warehouses and delivery trucks.
Radiohead doesn't seek to reinvent that infrastructure.

Historically, middlemen are expensive. Under typical major-label contracts
(which are likely to be different from whatever deal Radiohead makes for ''In
Rainbows''), musicians have paid handsomely for market access. The luckiest ones
receive perhaps 15 percent of what their albums earn after a label's expenses
are recouped -- as opposed to the 100 percent of revenues that Radiohead is
getting from ''In Rainbows'' online.

For a successful band a major-label contract also amounts to a kind of forced
altruism. Profits from hits support not only fancy offices and executive
salaries but also, and crucially, the flops, whether those are lame attempts to
copy current radio fodder or a seminal baby band ahead of its time. Before music
migrated online, an established band would generally decide that the major
labels were the only game in town and use its clout to get a better major-label
deal when it had the chance. Now, as contracts expire for well-known bands, they
have more options as independents -- and for major labels, there will be fewer
sure things to subsidize newer acts. To compensate, maybe the newly independent
superstars can link to baby-band Web pages or take them on tour as opening acts.

Free from its major-label contract, Radiohead could work on ''In Rainbows''
without deadlines or other pressures -- which, fortunately, didn't make for
happy-go-lucky music. Rhythmic layers crackle and coil, percussion spatters
prettiness, and noise sometimes looms from murky corners. Yet ''In Rainbows''
uses fewer synthetic sounds than Radiohead albums like ''Kid A'' and ''Hail to
the Thief.'' Much of it comes across as fingers on strings and sticks on drums.

Radiohead has also reclaimed its tunefulness. Its new songs take care to string
long-lined melodies across the rigorous counterpoint, whether the band is
rocking through ''Bodysnatchers'' or meshing guitar-picking patterns with
hip-hop drums and odd meters in ''15 Step'' and ''Weird Fishes/Arpeggi.'' Good
old Radiohead malaise fills the songs, as Mr. Yorke moans about writer's block
in ''Nude'' -- ''Don't get any big ideas/They're not gonna happen'' -- or takes
a grim view of relationships in ''House of Cards,'' ''Jigsaw Falling Into
Place'' and ''All I Need,'' in which he intones, ''I only stick with you because
there are no others.''

He can't be singing about the old-school music business because with ''In
Rainbows,'' Radiohead has decided to move on.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''In Rainbows'' can be downloaded from a Radiohead Web site,
inrainbows.com. (PHOTOGRAPH BY INRAINBOWS.COM) (pg. E7)
 Radiohead offers more than one way to buy its new album. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
NASTYLITTLEMAN.COM)(pg. E1)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               64 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 11, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Still Camera With Features Made to Suit High Definition

BYLINE: By STEPHEN C. MILLER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CIRCUITS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 167 words


Sony's popular line of Cyber-shot point-and-shoot digital still cameras has
added a new model, the DSC-T200. This camera has raised the image resolution to
8.1 megapixels; previous models went only to 7.2 megapixels.

The T200 can send video to an HDTV set in true high definition at 1080p. It has
a Carl Zeiss 5X zoom lens and 31 megabytes of internal flash memory. A slot for
Memory Stick Pro Duo cards lets you add up to 8 gigabytes of storage.

The T200 has a larger L.C.D. screen than earlier models, at 3.5 inches, and it
is touch-sensitive so most functions are easily accessible. A special ''Smile
Shutter'' mode takes a shot automatically when you have fixed the focus and your
subject laughs or smiles. More traditional features include face recognition,
red-eye reduction and image stabilization.

The Cyber-shot DSC-T200 is priced at $400 and can be bought online at
www.sonystyle.com and at major camera and electronic outlets. If you buy it from
the Sony site, free engraving is included.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               65 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 14, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

On the Trail Of Digital Secrets

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER.

Fresh Starts is a monthly column about emerging jobs and job trends.

SECTION: Section BU3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FRESH STARTS;
Pg. 19

LENGTH: 860 words


AFTER 31 years of eluding the police, the B.T.K. serial killer of Wichita, Kan.,
was  tracked down and convicted in 2005 with the help of information left behind
on a computer floppy disk. Scott Peterson's conviction for murdering his
pregnant wife, Laci,  relied in part on his Internet research about the tides
and water currents in the area where her body later turned up.

From prominent murder cases to lowly divorce proceedings, the e-mail messages
that people send and the Web sites they view can and will be used in court.  The
people who unearth this data and make it usable in the courtroom are known as
computer forensic specialists. They are the cyberdetectives who mine the data
that seems to disappear from --  but never really leaves --  computers and other
electronic storage devices.

''People who love computers, who love crime scene investigation, see this as a
natural confluence of their skills without having to reach under a dead body,''
said Craig D. Ball of Austin, Tex., a former trial lawyer who advises judges and
lawyers on the use of electronic evidence.

Computer forensic specialists examine hard drives and other storage areas,
ferreting out information from things like spreadsheets, Word documents, instant
messages and e-mail. They look for signs of tampering and for information that
users may have tried to delete or hide.

For many years, the field was dominated by law enforcement agencies and their
employees. But it has expanded recently as consultants have entered the field
and as various government agencies, corporations, financial institutions and
other businesses have begun hiring their own experts.

The work can be both rewarding and tedious. It can take weeks or months to sort
through a multitude of files and other digital data, some of which can be
encrypted. Computer forensic specialists must also be able to retrieve and store
it in a way that does not destroy or change other data on the computer.

Mr. Ball noted that 30 years ago, when offices did not have personal computers,
there was an actual paper trail to follow, with the help of file clerks and file
rooms.  ''As we migrated to electronic communication and information creation,
we empowered individuals to create their own information,'' he said. ''We also
empowered them to hide it or seek to destroy or alter it, and you no longer had
the pristine copy in the file room or the missing page in the management
system.''

As demand for computer forensic  employees has grown, formal education programs
have emerged, along with a plethora of certifications and a handful of
professional associations.

Professionals in the field estimate that the average salary for computer
forensic specialists is about $85,000, depending on experience and  location.
Entry-level  positions can start at around $50,000 a year.

Kris E. Turnbull, director of the Cyber Crime Institute, a continuing education
program at Kennesaw State University in Georgia, said his students tended to be
30 to 50 years old, with   a background in Internet technology. Some had jobs
that were eliminated at  corporations, he said.

The institute, started in 2002, offers online programs that can take about three
to four months to complete. Students who graduate from the institute receive a
certification backed by the International Society for Forensic Computer
Examiners.

Michael Kirk, 28, who graduated in 2006 from Champlain College in Burlington,
Vt., with a degree in computer forensics, said he sought a bachelor's degree in
the field because an associate  degree was not getting him a job.

In addition, ''Experience is paramount,'' he said, noting that he did an
internship with a computer forensics software company while getting his
bachelor's.  Many educators say internships are vital in helping students land
jobs after graduation.

''There are plenty of  computer forensic jobs,'' he said. ''But a lot require
previous experience as well as certification in various tools.''

The number of possible certifications is extensive, and they can be
time-consuming and cost hundreds of dollars to obtain.

Some certifications are related to knowledge of software like EnCase and
AccessData, which are used to mine computers for information. Others come from
professional organizations like the International Society of Forensic Computer
Examiners, which is affiliated with a private Virginia company, Key Computer
Services,  and the High Tech Crime Network, a group of law enforcement agencies
and corporate security professionals. While some companies require certain
certifications, others don't.

Mr. Kirk,  now an evidence consultant at FTI, a consulting firm that specializes
in  investigations and litigation, said the work was interesting and rewarding.
But he said that people contemplating a career in the field should be open to
relocating.

''It hasn't quite caught on everywhere,'' he said, noting that he moved from
central New York State to Washington for his position and travels often. ''There
are a lot of things to consider with the jobs that are out there. You've just
got to be willing to make some sacrifices to obtain the job you want.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Craig Ball, a criminologist and a former trial lawyer who
extracts evidence from computers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENJAMIN SKLAR FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               66 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 28, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Idol of MTV Fans Decides to Go Solo, and 'Be the Boring Guy'

BYLINE: By TAMMY LA GORCE

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 646 words

DATELINE: UNION


LESS than a week had passed since the news rocked teenage music circles, but
already the  grief-stricken were gathering at cyber haunts to vent their
collective heartache.

''I'm glad Fred is doing what he thinks is best for him, but reading that he's
leaving just ruined the rest of the year for me,'' was a typical comment from a
self-described 17-year-old diehard  on MTV.com.

Fred, as those who have been following  the arena-filling Long Island-based rock
band Taking Back Sunday know, is Fred Mascherino, the five-piece outfit's
guitarist and co-vocalist, who lives in Union.

Earlier this month, after four years, two gold-selling albums and the collecting
of  hordes of mostly high-school-age fans, Mr. Mascherino quit the band to go
solo under the name the Color Fred.  As a result, he is being  called brave by
journalists and music-industry types, he said recently from across a booth at
the Huck Finn Diner here, blocks away from his home. But courage never crossed
his mind when he quit;  he just wanted to be true to a musical vision he's had
since he was 9.

''It was definitely hard, like a divorce,'' said the mild, self-effacing
33-year-old, who will play the Hackensack School of Rock on Tuesday  and whose
debut album ''Bend to Break'' (Equal Vision Records) comes out the same day.
''Making the decision wasn't. It just made the most sense for me. But going
through with it was another story. You don't want anything bad to happen to the
other people.''

Taking Back Sunday has had its share of tumult. Since forming in 1999, the band
has lost four members, including Jesse Lacey, who now leads another acclaimed
Long Island band, Brand New.

But where the other departures have made music-magazine headlines because of the
interband conflicts and bruised egos leading up to them,  Mr. Mascherino's split
is more about self-realization.

''If I was worried about success or financial risk, I'd stay in the band,'' he
said. ''I just want to do what I want to do.''  Before joining Taking Back
Sunday, Mr. Mascherino led the postpunk band Breaking Pangaea. ''With this
project, I want to have my hand in everything. I haven't been fronting a band in
a while now. It'll be good to get back in front, jumping around and singing
loud.''

His relocation to Union three years ago after living most of his life in the
Philadelphia suburbs reflects his commitment to doing his own thing: though he
knew little about New Jersey, he bought the childhood home of one of Taking Back
Sunday's technicians who said  the town had been a friendly place to grow up.
Mr. Mascherino and his wife, Elena,  have three children, ages 5, 3 and 5
months.

If he was already recognizable in the neighborhood -- occasionally Mr.
Mascherino finds demo tapes in his mailbox, he said -- he has become even more
so since forming the Color Fred, an admittedly silly-sounding name fans picked
for him from  an Internet poll. Earlier this month, he filmed a video at his
century-old, Mediterranean-style house. The neighbors couldn't help noticing.

''It's basically like the movie 'Groundhog Day,' where I live the same day over
and over,'' said Mr. Mascherino, who expected the video, for the song ''If I
Surrender,'' to  make its way eventually to MTV. ''It's a day in the life of
Fred. We attached a camera to my car, and I was driving around the neighborhood
over and over. It attracted some attention. People were pretty curious.'' That
he drives an orange 1982 Volkswagen Rabbit may have had something to do with the
attention, too.

Nevertheless,  ''I just want to be the boring guy on the block,'' he said,
sounding slightly wearied by all the recent turbulence in his life. But that
doesn't seem very likely. Heading out of the diner, he explained why he chose to
meet at midday: ''I can walk home now without anybody noticing me,'' he said.
''The fans are all at school.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MOVING ON: Fred Mascherino performing at the Knitting Factory on
Oct. 20. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAHAV SEGEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               67 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 28, 2007 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

She's Famous (and So Can You)

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1427 words


TILA TEQUILA turned 26 on Wednesday, and the reader is advised to do whatever is
necessary to forget that useless fact. Wipe it, as the metaphor goes, from the
hard drive. Try also to obliterate the knowledge that  Tequila is not, oddly
enough, her real name (Nguyen is); that she is what Wikipedia -- in an entry
only slightly less extensive than that on Sigrid Undset, the Norwegian novelist
and 1928 Nobel laureate for literature -- refers to as an ''American glamour
model''; that she is a former performer on the Fuse cable TV show called
''Pants-Off Dance-Off''; that she is the centerpiece of a hit MTV television
series ''A Shot at Love With Tila Tequila,'' which made its debut early on Oct.
9 and was immediately, as the Hollywood Reporter noted, No. 1 in its time period
in the network's target demographic of people 18 to 34; and that the signal
reason for this breakout success may also be the basis for Ms. Tequila's
unconventional fame, her boast that she has 1,771,920 MySpace friends.

Dispose of the information. You won't need it for long.

How, one may ask, is it possible for a personality who great hunks of the
citizenry  never imagined existed to build up a social network more populous
than Dallas? How can Tila Tequila have become enormously famous having done
little of note beyond appearing as Playboy's Cyber Girl of the Week? When
exactly in the Warholian arc of fame did we arrive at a point where we create
celebrities of people so little accomplished that they make Paris Hilton look
like Marie Curie?

It's routine to dismiss these people, to sniff from the sideline about the
depths to which the culture has sunk. Misses Hilton and Tequila may represent,
respectively, leisure-class and working-class variants of the same feminine
caricature, a real-time Betty Boop. And yet each, in her own way, has divined
truths about the marketplace that academics and industry are still laboring
fully to comprehend. Each has understood the wacko populism of the cybersphere
and pitched her ambitions to capitalize on what Joshua Gamson, the author of
''Claims to Fame: Celebrity in Contemporary America'' calls ''a shift from
top-down manufactured celebrity to a kind of lateral, hyper-democratic
celebrity.''

''Because of new technologies, we get to see now what happens when people have
the option of making up their own celebrity,'' Mr. Gamson said. ''We've gone
from 'Oh, my God, they're so much better than I am,' to 'Oh, my God, they're so
good at making themselves up.'''

We've gone from dazed idolatry to another and more familiar form of
identification. Fame, when not concocted by Hollywood and available to only the
genetically gifted few, takes on softer contours. It becomes less an exalted
state than a permeable one, available to those from classes and cohorts that, in
the days of the studio monoliths, the gatekeepers of the star-making machine
kept at bay.

By the standards of the new ''Jackass'' landscape, traditional stardom, with its
career building stations-of-the-cross, its rigid talent requirements, its
''Entourage'' shtick, seems clunky and out of step with a culture so much more
fluid now that a hit record -- like the recent Internet sensation ''I'll Kill
Him,'' by Soko -- could emerge from a young French woman's bedroom and MySpace
page.

Who says any longer that one must be able to sing or dance or emote in order to
attract an audience or, anyway, a batch of new friends in the ether? Who says
that only winners win? As reality TV, with its durable affection for flame-outs,
car wrecks and actual losers, has made abundantly clear, even after the tribal
council has voted you off their tropical island, you're still welcome in our
homes.

When Jake Halpern set out to write ''Fame Junkies,'' his book about what is now
a universal obsession with celebrity, he was surprised to uncover studies
demonstrating that 31 percent of American teenagers had the honest expectation
that they would one day be famous and that 80 percent thought of themselves as
truly important. (The figure from the same study conducted in the 1950s was 12
percent.)

''Obviously people have been having delusions of grandeur since the beginning of
time, but the chances of becoming well known were much slimmer'' even five years
ago than they are today, Mr. Halpern said. ''There are an incredibly large
number of venues for becoming known. Talent is not a prerequisite.''

The easiest thing to say about Ms. Tequila is that she lacks talent. In a review
of ''A Shot at Love with Tila Tequila''-- whose flimsy premise offers 16
straight men  and 16 lesbians  the usual chance to swill alcohol, hang around in
board shorts and bikinis (and, let's not forget, heels) and compete for her
affections -- a New York Times critic said  she would rather watch a dating show
starring Danny DeVito than endure another second of psychodrama with Ms.
Tequila's sad-sack entourage.

Yet if Ms. Tequila is no Julie Harris, if she is not stereotypically stellar,
she is still a hypnotic presence on the screen. Perhaps it is how her large head
sits atop a pert pneumatic torso. Perhaps it is the way her wide-set eyes give
her the look of a figure from an anime cartoon. Perhaps it is the steeliness of
her will to succeed on whatever terms and the insistent sincerity she brings to
the task.

With Ms. Tequila's hardscrabble upbringing, her story certainly contains
elements of the classic show-business redemption narrative. Her family emigrated
from postwar Vietnam to Singapore and later moved to Houston, where they lived
in public housing and where, as she once said in an interview with Import Tuner,
a car magazine, she became deeply disoriented about her identity: ''I was really
confused then, because at first I thought I was black, then I thought I was
Hispanic and joined a cholo gang.''

To judge from myriad Internet snapshots with captions like ''Tila in Red
Bikini,'' though, it is not the Emma Lazarus dimension of her tale that made
Tila Tequila a social-network-magnet  on MySpace or, for that matter, impossible
to look away from on even the tiniest of hand-held screens.

It has been said many times of the Internet that it radically subverts the
traditional relationship between high and low, in terms both of culture and
class. Yet Meg Whitman, the chief executive of eBay, did not get her career
start posing for the video game ''Street Racing Syndicate'' and, absent a
miracle, Tila Tequila's chances of taking the helm of eBay are nil. Some
structures remain rigid, and so it's worth pointing out that the primary purpose
of trash entertainment may not be to provide  critics with opportunities to take
potshots, but to hold a mirror up to a constituency for whom Tila Tequila is
more home-girl than pole-dancing oddity.

People watch her show and mob her on MySpace because, in some sense, they
already know someone like her and are looking to participate in a trajectory
that has vaulted her out of the projects, away from gangs and into an echelon of
the ''entertainment industry'' that, while it will never include invitations to
the Vanity Fair Oscar party or drinks at the Ivy with Demi Moore, still manages
to give her recognition, limousine service and a shot at ''love'' with 32 brand
new friends.

''Whether you think Tila Tequila is corny or not, she already has a certain
legitimacy to her name,'' said Roger Gastman, the editor of Swindle magazine, an
indie journal and Web site. Its most recent issue has Death and Fame as its
theme. Tila Tequila may have ''started out very niche, but she has crossed over
to the mainstream,'' saidMr. Gastman, citing what he termed  ''a body of work''
including a Maxim cover, a hit show, a MySpace page that now links to a site
offering guidance on how to become like her. ''Tila could probably do signings
at comic book conventions forever if she wanted to,'' Mr. Gastman said.

And this would undoubtedly suit Ms. Tequila, for whom fame, she said, was never
actually so much the goal as was fulfilling her love for acting and dancing and
stripping and modeling and singing and, not incidentally, escaping the limited
career growth available to someone who not long ago was posing half-naked on car
hoods.

''The press and the media have glorified the celebrity thing and brainwashed
people to live in that world,'' Ms. Tequila said. ''People try to stand out for
nothing and they end up getting quote-unquote famous. I'm not into that at all.
If you're just into fame for fame, I'm like, 'O.K., but what are you good at?
What can you actually do?'''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 4, 2007



CORRECTION: An article last Sunday about the model and entertainer Tila Tequila
and her rise to fame on the Internet misstated the title of a recent song by
Soko, which was also made famous on the Web, through MySpace. It is ''I'll Kill
Her,'' not ''I'll Kill Him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CLAIM TO FAME Tila Tequila's talents may be hard to discern,
but that hasn't stopped her from having a hit show on MTV. (pg.ST1)
 STAR POWER: Tila Tequila, striking a Betty Boop pose, says being famous wasn't
her goal. Left, a scene from ''A Shot at Love With Tila Tequila.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS
BY PAUL BUCK/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY AND MTV)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               68 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 9, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On Tonight

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 427 words


10 P.M. (Discovery) BEAR'S MISSION EVEREST Bear Grylls, above, the adventurer
and sort-of survivalist who was criticized recently for having a little
assistance from his crew during his wilderness stints, travels to the Himalayas
to fulfill a dream of flying a powered paraglider higher than Mount Everest in
this hourlong special. (In 1998, at 23, Mr. Grylls became the youngest British
climber to complete a summit and descent of that mountain.) At 9 he begins a new
season of ''Man vs. Wild,'' focusing on three geographic areas for two weeks
each, offering tips culled from experts on enduring extreme climates. First: the
heat of the barren Sahara.

8 P.M. (ABC) MEN IN TREES  Wolves descend on Elmo, leaving Marin (Anne Heche)
and Jack (James Tupper) foaming at the mouth in this two-part episode.
Meanwhile, a series of unfortunate events threatens to ruin the wedding of
Patrick (Derek Richardson) and Annie (Emily Bergl), especially when a beauty
blooper leaves bride looking less than picture perfect.

9 P.M. (NBC) FRIDAY NIGHT LIGHTS  Landry (Jesse Plemons) comes clean and forces
his father to choose between being a parent or a cop. Tami's sister, Shelley
(Jessalyn Gilsig), arrives in Dillon to help with the new baby, and brings with
her some progressive thinking about living green. And Tim (Taylor Kitsch) is
kicked off the team.

9 P.M. (TLC) FASHIONING A HOME WITH CLINTON KELLY  Mr. Kelly, best known as an
amiable savior on ''What Not to Wear,'' takes on retaining walls and textured
wallpapers as he designs and renovates his new country retreat.

9 P.M. (Food Network) PAULA'S PARTY In this Thanksgiving episode Paula Deen puts
a Southern twist on holiday classics by frying everything from the stuffing and
the cranberries to the turkey (glazed in pecans). At 10 ''Rachael Ray's Tasty
Travels'' ventures to Aspen, Colo., for dinner and dog sledding, and at 10:30
Giada De Laurentiis journeys from Denver into the Rocky Mountains in ''Giada's
Weekend Getaways.''

10 P.M. (CMT) KEITH URBAN: INVITATION ONLY Mr. Urban, left, performs acoustic
versions of hits including ''Making Memories of Us, ''Who Wouldn't Wanna Be
Me,'' ''Somebody Like You'' and ''You're My Better Half,'' and new songs like
''Got It Right This Time,'' at a small concert in Nashville. He also holds a
question-and-answer session with the audience.

11 P.M. (Spike) WORLD CYBER GAMES  This special follows a South Korean game
champion from his training to the grand finals last month in Seattle, where more
than 700 players from 74 countries converged.KATHRYN SHATTUCK

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               69 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 11, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Web Finds Its Man, And Takes Him for a Ride

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and LESLIE WAYNE

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1524 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Nov. 10


From posting video on YouTube to enlisting friends through Facebook, all of the
presidential candidates are looking for ways to harness the Internet. In the
case of Ron Paul, the Internet has harnessed him.

Mr. Paul, a 10-term Texas congressman who is seeking the Republican presidential
nomination, came into the campaign with a conservative platform: a return to the
gold standard, abolition of the I.R.S., a literal view of the Constitution. His
campaign was bare bones. Then he started appearing in debates. His emphatic
presence and fierce opposition to the war in Iraq set him apart from his fellow
Republicans. Setting him even farther apart were ideas like blaming American
foreign policy for the attacks of 9/11 and abolishing the Federal Reserve.

If his campaign had taken place in the pre-Internet era, it might have gone the
way of his 1988 Libertarian campaign for president, as a footnote to history.
But because of the Internet's low-cost ability to connect grass-roots supporters
with one another -- in this case, largely iconoclastic white men -- Mr. Paul's
once-solo quest has taken on a life of its own. It is evolving from a figment of
cyberspace into a traditional campaign, with yard signs, direct mail and
old-fashioned rallies, like one here on Saturday attended by a few thousand
people under cold, gray skies. Mr. Paul said it was his biggest rally so far. He
said it proved his campaign was more than ''a few spammers'' and called it a
''gigantic opportunity'' to establish credibility.

How much the Paul campaign had snowballed on the Internet  became evident last
week when supporters independent of the campaign raised $4 million online and an
additional $200,000 over the phone in a single day, a record among this year's
Republican candidates. There is even talk that Mr. Paul could influence  the
primary in New Hampshire, where he could draw votes from Senator John McCain of
Arizona, who is trying to revive the independent persona that helped him win the
state's primary in 2000.

In an interview on Friday, Mr. Paul, 72, a retired physician and a grandfather,
acknowledged that the influence of the Internet had surprised even him.

''We always knew it was supposed to be important,'' he said of the Internet.
''My idea was you had to have someone who was a super expert, who knew how to
find people. But they found us.''

As for the record one-day fund-raising, he said, ''I had nothing to do with
it,'' adding that he had so far neglected to thank the people responsible.
(James Sugra, 28, of Huntington Beach, Calif., acting on his own, posted an
online video proposing one big day of fund-raising; Trevor Lyman, 37, of Miami
Beach, then independently created a site, www.thisnovember5th.com, that featured
the video.)

Mr. Paul estimated that the one-day haul had brought ''$10 million worth of free
publicity.''

He added, ''It's kind of sad, but the money is what has given us credibility,
not the authenticity of the ideas.''

Those ideas were on display Saturday as Mr. Paul said young people should be
able to opt out of Social Security, called for an audit into how much gold
really is in Fort Knox, and, in urging an end to the war, declared, ''The
Versailles Treaty is one of our biggest problems we're dealing with today,
because it was under the Versailles Treaty that we created  -- the West created
-- this artificial country called Iraq.''

He also called the Internet ''a strong political equalizer,'' adding that the
attention after the one-day fund-raiser had been ''a very, very valuable lesson
for us.''

Stirring the interest in contributions to the Paul campaign is an innovation on
his Web site, www.ronpaul2008.com, a real-time display of the dollars and the
names of donors as they roll in. By contrast, most campaigns conceal their
fund-raising and time the release of financial information for political effect.

''What is new is how Paul's openness about his daily fund-raising data helped
foster this surge,'' said Andrew Rasiej, a co-founder of techPresident.com, a
nonpartisan Web site that tracks the candidates' use of technology. ''It fed a
powerful user-driven feedback loop.''

That success is propelling Mr. Paul increasingly toward the nuts and bolts of
concrete campaigning. His staff  members -- in headquarters above a dry-cleaning
shop in Arlington, Va., where some have built bunk beds in their cubicles --
began a $1.1 million television campaign in New Hampshire this  week. He even
held an old-school fund-raiser here on Saturday, behind closed doors.

The Paul campaign says it expects to expand its staff of 70 paid workers and 8
unpaid state coordinators. (By contrast, Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor
of New York City, who is also seeking the Republican nomination, has 244 paid
staff members.)

''To have any chance of success, you have to blend the old with the new,'' said
Lew Moore, Mr. Paul's campaign manager. ''If you just have a cyber-campaign and
that does not translate into votes or money, it would be a fantasy and we would
just be a video game.''

The new success means new  challenges: Can Mr. Paul translate the passion that
has been bubbling up on the Internet into votes? Can he hold together his
disparate collection of supporters who have united online? And as the campaign
moves forward, who will chart its course?

To his online supporters, the responsibility lies with them.

''I feel like I am the campaign,'' said Chester Gould, 26, who owns a technology
company and was among 28 supporters last week at an Albany ''meetup,'' an online
term for like-minded people who share an interest, whether it be needlepoint or
politics, and then agree to meet in person.

Howard Dean, who pioneered the use of the Internet in presidential politics in
2004, also used meetups, which are now commonplace in campaigns. But Paul
supporters have demonstrated how a handful of people can build them into a
movement. There are now more than 1,140 Paul meetup groups in 900 cities with
more than 67,000 members.

The meetups have operated largely independently from the campaign, but like the
campaign are moving their efforts from the Internet to the ground.

''The crux of the problem we have is that most of the public has not heard of
Ron Paul yet,'' said Jeff Gaul, 50, an Albany insurance broker and public
adjustor, who bought a batch of Paul yard signs at his own expense and urged
others at the Albany meetup to do so.

At the meetup -- in an unadorned, dimly lighted coffeehouse -- supporters spent
two hours discussing ways to establish a greater physical presence, including
creating and paying for their own radio advertisements for Mr. Paul and
gathering signatures for a petition drive to get him on the New York State
ballot.

Their self-directed activity reflects just how much the Internet has changed
politics since Mr. Dean's campaign.

''The Dean campaign was decentralized, but I think Paul's movement is actually
run by nonstaffers,'' said Zephyr Teachout, a visiting assistant law professor
at Duke University who was Mr. Dean's director of online organizing. ''The buggy
is pulling the horse.''

Ms. Teachout said that most campaigns this year knew that they needed ''to build
really amazing tools and spend a lot of time on the Web site'' to create voter
loyalty. But that led many to micromanage their Web sites. By contrast, she
said, ''the Paul campaign took the opposite lesson -- that it was about openness
and power -- and focused far less on the tools and far more on decentralization
as a driving force.''

Without centralization, the meetups can seem like sessions devoted to
reinventing the wheel. But many at the Albany meeting said their freedom was
empowering and only fed their enthusiasm, though they were drawn to Mr. Paul for
different reasons.

Andrew Fox, 28, who described his day job as ''sitting on a bench with a
soldering iron'' repairing cable TV boxes, agreed the other night to become the
treasurer for the Albany group. ''We have effectively lost our form of
representative government,'' Mr. Fox said. ''The war is the worst thing, but we
also have a police state at home.''

David Weck, 54, a chiropractor from Schenectady, said that he was a Democrat but
that Mr. Paul was the only candidate who seemed committed to smaller government.

''Never in a million years did I think I would be interested in a Republican
candidate,'' Mr. Weck said, ''especially after this administration.''

Mr. Gould said he was alarmed about the nation's currency, a favorite Paul
topic.  Federal Reserve notes, Mr. Gould  said, are ''like a loan off of a loan
that's physically impossible to ever repay,'' meaning the country ''will
continuously be in massive debt.''

Mr. Paul's supporters seem prepared to push at least as far as he will, but how
far he will go is not yet clear; he has waved off suggestions of a third-party
candidacy.

''As long as there's momentum, and if they're starting another fund-raiser for
me, how can I walk away?'' Mr. Paul said in the interview. But if the votes
don't materialize, he added, ''after every primary, you'd have to have a bit of
a reassessment.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At an Albany ''meetup,'' online backers of Mr. Paul met
face-to-face to plan a Philadelphia rally.
 Ron Paul supporters last week in Clifton Park, N.Y. Mr. Paul's ideas include
abolishing the I.R.S. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               70 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 17, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bargains Before the First Bite

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1711 words


Yes, the economic outlook is grim.

But they call it the holiday shopping season for a reason. For all the dour
predictions, Americans will still mob the malls in  search of the right gift at
the right price.

Here is a guide to the five trends that are likely to dominate the gift-buying
season that (officially, at least) begins next week.

PRE-TURKEY SHOPPING Disregarding the last known boundaries between tradition and
capitalism, retailers are trying to persuade Americans to start their Black
Friday shopping before the first bite of Thanksgiving dinner.

The biggest offender is CompUSA, the technology store. The chain -- the first
retailer to open at 12:01 a.m. on the Friday after Thanksgiving two years ago,
then at 9 p.m. on Thanksgiving last year -- is holding an online-only sale this
year at 12:01 a.m. on Thanksgiving.

''Before you pop the turkey into the oven, you can buy online,'' said the
chain's spokeswoman, Jessica Nunez, who added that the sale  was not an
intrusion into a national holiday, but  ''just another option'' for
time-starved, deal-hungry consumers.

Remember when Black Friday, so-called because historically retailers become
profitable that day, was actually on Friday? Well, we don't either, and neither,
it seems, do retailers.

The rule breaking began with Wal-Mart, which has held miniature Black Friday
sales every weekend of November, in a brazen attempt to rearrange the holiday
shopping calendar -- and, of course, to steal business from its competitors.
Every Friday morning since Nov. 2, it has offered door-buster discounts starting
at 6 a.m.

Now, seemingly everyone is following suit. Toys ''R'' Us has held door-buster
sales every Friday and Saturday this month (including one this morning, starting
at 7 a.m.)

Kmart will open at 7 a.m. on Thanksgiving this year and, on Black Friday, J. C.
Penney is opening an hour earlier than last year, at 4 a.m.

Stores will reward the early birds with food. CompUSA is offering pumpkin pie on
Thanksgiving night and several malls are serving Maxwell House coffee at 6 a.m.
on Black Friday. One retailer, Best Buy, is having none of it. The chain is
closed on Thanksgiving and opening at the comparatively reasonable hour of 5
a.m. on Friday morning.

Brian Lucas, a company spokesman, said the chain ''believes this is the right
thing to do for our customers, who have come to think of Black Friday morning as
somewhat of a tradition to start the shopping season, and to our employees, who
value having time with their families on Thanksgiving day.''

BE YOUR OWN ROCK STAR The toy industry wants to turn every child under 10 into a
self-made rock star, with a genuine guitar in one hand and a video game version
in the other.

As if in lock step, every major toy maker -- like Hasbro and Mattel -- has put a
guitar-based game in its product lineup and every big retailer has put those
products on its  top 10 toy list.

The companies say they are piggybacking on the runaway success of Guitar Hero,
the video game guitar system; the popularity of Hannah Montana, the rock star
television character; and the enduring strength of the reality show ''American
Idol.''

''Whenever a trend is as hot as this, a lot of people come up with the same
idea,'' said Neil B. Friedman, the president of Mattel Brands.

He should know. This holiday season, the Fisher-Price unit of Mattel is rolling
out the I Can Play Guitar System ($100), for children  6 and older, a mock
guitar that hooks up to a television. Users learn to play by matching
color-coded hand positions on the screen to those on the toy guitar.

Hasbro is introducing the Power Tour Electric Guitar ($70), which teaches users
to play 12 preloaded songs or plug in an MP3 player and strum along to a
favorite song. There are touch sensors in place of the strings, though.

For the less dexterous, Tech2Go is marketing American Idol Talent Challenge
($50), a guitarless DVD-based game that resembles karaoke. Players can sing up
to 12 preloaded songs on the game's microphone, then wait for an unvarnished
review from ''American Idol's'' hosts: Simon Cowell, Randy Jackson and Paula
Abdul.

And, of course, there is the latest iteration of Guitar Hero, called Legends of
Rock, for PlayStation, Xbox or Wii video game systems. The technology, from Red
Octane, remains unchanged: users try to match notes on a guitar with those on
the screen.

The only downside to the new toys? Kids might actually want to grow up to be
rock stars, with all the baggage that entails. The chief executive of Toys ''R''
Us, Gerald L. Storch, is unperturbed. ''What could be more wholesome than
music?'' he said.

THE ELECTRONIC COMPASS For five years, two electronics, the MP3 player and a
flat-screen television, have owned the holiday shopping season, dominating the
covers of brochures from big chains like Best Buy, Wal-Mart and Circuit City.

This year, those technologies have met their match: portable G.P.S. systems,
which  can be used in cars, on bicycles and for hiking.

''G.P.S. will be the technology of the holiday season,'' Ronald Sargent, the
chief executive of Staples, predicted in an interview.

The reason is that prices for the units, which use three-dimensional screen
images and verbal commands to direct users from one location to another, have
fallen to $200 for the cheapest models, down from $1,000 several years ago.

The once-bulky devices have also shrunk, to three to five inches in width. And
now that cab drivers and rental car agencies have started using the systems,
thousands of consumers are seeing the devices in action -- and want one of their
own.

Major retailers are stocking a variety of models, but the brands may sound
unfamiliar: Garmin, Mio, Tom-Tom and Magellan. (Sorry, Sony and Apple are not
big players in the G.P.S. business.)

The popular Garmin Nuvi 680 Personal Travel Assistant ($800) has  a color screen
that adjusts its brightness to sunlight and offers  real-time information on
weather conditions, traffic reports, gas prices, even local movie times.

A more affordable version is made by Moi. The C230 Portable G.P.S. Navigator
($200) offers turn-by-turn directions, announced by the system, and warnings
when the driver is speeding.

Andre Sam, who manages a Best Buy store on the Upper East Side  of Manhattan,
said G.P.S. ''has really picked up in popularity,'' adding:  ''The flat-panel
TVs have been done. This is the gift for the person who already has
everything.''

A MARTHA CHRISTMAS This year's most highly anticipated retail face-off is Martha
Stewart vs. Martha Stewart.

The domestic diva turned  law breaker turned rehabilitated talk- show host is
the subject of dueling marketing campaigns at Kmart and Macy's, where she has
designed two strikingly similar home decor lines.

And we mean similar. The names? The Martha Stewart Collection (at Macy's) and
Martha Stewart Everyday collection (at Kmart). The prices? A towel at Macy's for
$7.99 and a towel at Kmart for -- you guessed it -- $7.99.

Kmart came first, of course, in 1997, with  Martha Stewart Everyday, a
best-selling line of sheets, towels and dishes. But troubles have befallen Kmart
since it merged with Sears, and Ms. Stewart's company, vexed with the chain's
poor performance, struck a deal for a higher-end line with Macy's, much to
Kmart's regret.

Macy's print and television marketing blitz for the Martha Stewart Collection
began this fall and, not to be outdone, Kmart reintroduced the Martha Stewart
Everyday collection about the same time.

Bill Stewart (no relation), the chief marketing officer at Kmart, said the chain
needed to revamp the Martha line to ''reclaim our rightful place as the leader
for price and value in the home department.''

A result is that Ms. Stewart's face is plastered across newspaper circulars, TV
screens and telephone booths across the country.

Which line does Martha favor? Officially, she loves all her children equally.
But in September, Ms. Stewart brought the audience from her TV show up to Macy's
Herald Square store in Manhattan for a tour of her new product line. She did
not, however, make a similar pilgrimage  across the avenue to the  Kmart store
on 34th Street.

No matter, said Mr. Stewart. ''What we see, from our  consumer research, is that
there is much more knowledge that Martha Stewart is at Kmart'' than at Macy's.

MERRY MARKDOWNS What is bad for retailers -- a tough economy -- is good for
bargain hunters, in stores and online.

After the weakest fall shopping season in a decade, retail analysts predict the
return of deep  desperation discounts this holiday. The worse a store's
performance, the steeper the markdowns.

Here are the chains with weak sales so far:  Macy's, Nordstrom, Abercrombie &
Fitch, Chico's, Ann Taylor, and Limited, the owner of Express and Victoria's
Secret.

In a reversal from years past, reliable price slashers like Gap and Aeropostale
have cut their orders, anticipating a slowdown, so discounts will be sparse.

''But don't kid yourself,'' said John D. Morris, an analyst at Wachovia
Securities, ''it is still going to be a more promotional Christmas season.'' Mr.
Morris, who keeps a running tally on discounts, says markdowns are already up
more than 7 percent this holiday season over  last year, ''and rising fast.''

The big online discount this season is free shipping, with no conditions, for
many Web sites the Monday after Thanksgiving, known as Cyber Monday, because
consumers return to work from a weekend of mall browsing and buy online.

This year, an estimated 25 percent of Web retailers will offer  free shipping,
no matter how small the order, on Nov. 26. Among them are Joann.com, the Web
site of Jo-Ann Fabrics and Crafts; HSN.com, the home shopping network Web site;
and Giftcertificates.com, a site that sells gift cards from hundreds of stores.

Most retailers provide free shipping for orders $50 or higher. Doesn't it seem
that  stores lose money on $10 online orders, shipped from New York to
California?

''The number of sales it generates more than offsets the cost of free
shipping,'' said Laura Thorpe, the e-commerce manager for marketing at Bealls, a
department store offering no-condition free  shipping next Monday on its Web
site, www.Bealls.com

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The holiday season has already begun in Herald Square in
Manhattan, where window displays drew shoppers' gazes yesterday. (PHOTOGRAPH
NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
 Toy makers have put guitar-based games in their lineups. Customers play Rock
Band for Xbox at a Best Buy in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (pg.B6) ILLUSTRATIONS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               71 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 26, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Gimmick Becomes a Real Trend

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; E-COMMERCE REPORT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 832 words


TWO years ago, Cyber Monday was a marketing gimmick in search of shoppers. This
year, it seems to be a genuine trend that retailers have embraced.

In a survey of roughly 120 members of Shop.org, the trade group for online
retailers, nearly three-quarters said they would offer discounts today for Cyber
Monday, as the first Monday after Thanksgiving has become known. Shop.org said
32 percent of adults surveyed last week said they would shop online on Cyber
Monday, up from 27 percent in 2006.

Among the merchants participating is HSN.com, which is giving first-time
customers a discount of 15 percent.

Retailers are hoping the sales create early demand for goods, thus  easing the
late-season strain on the merchants' shipping operations. It could also help
them record early gains during what could be a cheerless holiday season.
Analysts said ripples from the credit crisis and rising fuel costs, among other
factors, could damp consumer spending.

Doug Hart, an analyst at BDO Seidman, an accounting and consulting firm, said
Cyber Monday sales would account for about 12 percent of the expected $39
billion in online revenue this holiday season. That is similar to the 15 percent
share of holiday sales recorded by offline retailers on the day after
Thanksgiving, known as Black Friday, he said.

Some online merchants see Cyber Monday promotions as an antidote to the crowds
and traffic jams of Black Friday, and are hoping this year's online promotions
attract shopping refugees.

It helps that some retailers are more aggressively promoting their discounts.
Ice.com, an online jeweler, last year offered a 20 percent discount on 15 items
on Cyber Monday. ''We didn't go all the way with promotions because we didn't
think it was such a great idea,'' said Pinny Gniwisch, executive vice president
for marketing at Ice.com. ''But last year, we saw huge increases in traffic and
sales.''

The percentage of discounts  on Ice.com will be similar to last year's. This
year, however, roughly 12,000 sites that promote Ice.com in exchange for a
commission -- like UPromise.com and FatWallet -- are featuring Ice.com's Cyber
Monday promotion.

The sale also appears alongside those of dozens of other online retailers on
CyberMonday.com, a site created by Shop.org two years ago. According to Scott
Silverman, Shop.org's executive director, 43 percent of the organization's
members joined the inaugural Cyber Monday promotion in 2005.

''Last year's response really legitimized it,'' he said.

Among this year's promotions, 29 percent are one-day sales. Other deals are
being offered in the days before and after Cyber Monday or, in some cases, the
entire holiday shopping season. About one-fourth of the retailers participating
are not charging customers for shipping.

Mr. Hart of BDO Seidman said this year's Cyber Monday deals would culminate a
series of November promotions intended to drive holiday sales sooner.  Sales
like Target.com's discount on more than 60 gift items, he said, helped set the
promotional tone of the month for retailers. Free shipping offers for toys sold
on Walmart.com and Target.com show how jittery merchants have become since the
recalls of toys made in China, he said.

Among the more aggressive entrants into the Cyber Monday fray is the recently
introduced Web site of the retail chain Meijer. The site is cutting 30 percent
from the price of many Global Positioning Systems, television and video items,
and audio products. ''Because it's our first year out of the gate, we want
people to get used to us,'' said Dawn Bronkema, Meijer's director for
e-commerce marketing.

Meijer will continue offering sales after Cyber Monday, but  the discount level
could be smaller and the breadth of selection might not be as wide.

For some online merchants, the idea of Cyber Monday still rings hollow. Bill
Bass, the chief executive of Fair Indigo, a seller of fair-trade apparel based
in Madison, Wis., said his site would still not offer special price promotions.

''There's something inherently dishonest about it,'' he said. ''If you're giving
a promotion now, you're kind of saying you stuck it to people who bought from
you when there wasn't a promotion.''

Mr. Bass acknowledged that the policy could mean his site would lose sales to
retailers that offer Cyber Monday discounts. ''If you go down that path, you're
training your customers to expect promotions,'' he said.

Like other retailers that rely heavily on catalogs for marketing, Fair Indigo
can help encourage earlier holiday shopping by simply mailing catalogs sooner.

Mr. Gniwisch, of Ice.com, said that if nothing else, this year's Cyber Monday
success in attracting retailers shows the necessity of persistence in
establishing an annual event.

''When something's pushed down your throat continuously and the Internet becomes
more part of your life, the customs of the Internet become more part of your
life,'' Mr. Gniwisch said. ''So they finally got a holiday for the Internet.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dawn Bronkema, director for e-commerce marketing at Meijer, a
retail chain. The company will offer Cyber Monday discounts today. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY ADAM BIRD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               72 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 26, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Today in Business

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 449 words


GAUGING HOLIDAY SALES According to two reports, retail sales surged on the day
after Thanksgiving but the amount spent by each shopper fell, with stores
dangling steep discounts and consumers worried about the economy.

ON THE PICKET LINE Many members of the Writers Guild of America say that
striking in Hollywood -- at least short term -- is not that bad. And a
nationwide poll suggests that the union is winning the public relations war.
[C1.]

The Web site Deadline Hollywood Daily, owned and operated by Nikki Finke, has
been a critical source for Hollywood news and gossip. But the three-week-old
writers' strike may have finally solidified Ms. Finke's position as a power
broker. [C4.]

CABLE REGULATION The head of the Federal Communications Commission is struggling
to find support from a majority of commissioners for a proposal to more tightly
regulate cable television companies. [C1.]

BATTLE OF THE BAND GAMES One of the most watched rivalries in the video game
business this holiday season is between two games that are not first-person
shooters or movie tie-ins, but instead put players in the role of rock
musicians. [C1.]

DNA TEST IN DRUGSTORES In what appears to be the first offer of a DNA test
through a major pharmacy chain, a company called Sorenson Genomics has started
selling a paternity test kit through Rite Aid stores. [C3.]

ANIMAL TESTING PROTESTS An international movement to close down Huntingdon Life
Sciences, a large animal testing laboratory, has been sustained by its presence
on the Internet. [C3.]

POLITICAL ALLIANCE ABC News and Facebook have established a partnership that
allows Facebook members to follow ABC political reporters electronically, view
reports and video, and participate in polls and debates.  [C7.]

MAGAZINE INSERT ATTACKED An insert in Rolling Stone magazine sponsored by Camel
cigarettes is under fire from antismoking activists who say it blurs the line
between advertising and editorial content. [C4.]

MEN AND MELODRAMA Research suggests that producers of emotional films can
increase their male audience by emphasizing a disconnection with reality. [C4.]

20 QUESTIONS What does MySpace have to do with cheese slices? Stuart Elliott
poses 20 questions about advertising, marketing, media and popular culture.
Advertising. [C5.]

CORPORATE EFFORT ON CARBON British companies are pledging to offer greener
products and invest in research and technology as part of a wider push to reduce
carbon emissions. [C5.]

THE MONDAY AFTER Two years ago, Cyber Monday  -- the first Monday after
Thanksgiving -- was a marketing gimmick in search of shoppers. This year,
retailers seem to have embraced it. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. [C6.]

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               73 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 26, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Retail Sales Rise, but Stores Relied on Discounts and Early Hours

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO; Katie Zezima contributed reporting from Boston.

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 777 words


Black Friday was bigbut with a big caveat.

With stores dangling steep discounts and consumers worried about the economy,
retail sales surged on the day after Thanksgiving, yet the amount of money each
shopper spent fell, according to two reports released yesterday.

The reports suggest that jittery consumers are flocking to rock-bottom prices
and to little else -- a boon for discount stores like Wal-Mart and Best Buy and
trouble for higher-end chains, like Nordstrom and Abercrombie &  Fitch, which
are averse to discounting.

Sales rose 8.3 percent on Friday compared with last year, the biggest increase
in three years, according to ShopperTrak, a research company. On Friday and
Saturday combined, sales rose 7.2 percent.

But shoppers did not splurge, spending an estimated $348 each over the holiday
weekend, down from $360 last year, a survey conducted for the National Retail
Federation found.

''American consumers are trying to outsmart the stores and wait for desperation
discounts,'' said Burt Flickinger, a retail consultant.

Retailers' performance over the Thanksgiving weekend is closely watched because
it accounts for up to 8 percent, or roughly $40 billion, of all holiday sales,
which are expected to reach $475 billion this year, according to the National
Retail Federation, the industry trade group.

Over all, retail sales growth this season is predicted to be the weakest since
2002, with spending pinched by rising energy costs, falling home prices and a
tight credit market.

As expected, cost-conscious consumers favored discount chains over costlier
stores this  weekend, according to the survey, conducted by BIGresearch.

Of those surveyed, 55 percent said they had shopped at bargain chains like
Wal-Mart and Target, up from 50 percent last year. The percentage who made a
purchase at traditional department stores, like Macy's, fell slightly.

That shift appeared to confirm suspicions that shoppers would ''trade down''
this season, largely bypassing full-price stores to save money. That is a
reversal from previous years when shoppers eagerly traded up to luxury outlets
like Ralph Lauren.

Deanna Babikian, 42, had no plans to trade up on Friday, arriving at  Target in
Framingham, Mass., by 6:30 a.m. to buy a 42-inch television for $798. ''You have
to go then. You can't get these kinds of deals any other time,'' she said.

Higher gas prices, and a reluctance to drive to stores, may be behind the big
rise in the percentage of people who shopped online, 32 percent, up from 23
percent in 2006, the survey found.

Bill Martin, the co-founder of ShopperTrak, said the stronger-than-expected
sales on Friday should leave stores ''breathing a sigh of relief.''

But why did individual spending fall, if sales rose? One explanation is that the
most heavily promoted -- and discounted -- products this holiday season cost
less than those of last year.

In electronics, for example, two best sellers on Friday were Kodak digital photo
frames (for about $100 to $250) and a KitchenAid mixer (for $130), rather than
flat-screen televisions, last year's must-have gift.

''It takes a lot of $130 stand mixers to add up to a $1,000 high definition
TV,'' said Ellen Davis, a spokeswoman for the National Retail Federation.

The retail federation's survey found that earlier store hours lured more
shoppers. About 2.6 percent of those surveyed shopped at stores with midnight
openings on Black Friday, up from 1.3 percent a year ago.

The discounting in brick-and-mortar stores will spill over onto the Web starting
today.

In a departure from tradition, dozens of Web retailers will offer free shipping,
no matter how small the order, for Cyber Monday, as the Monday after Black
Friday is now called (at least by nickname-adoring marketing executives.)

An estimated 25 percent of online retailers will offer the promotion, like
Joann.com, the Web site of Jo-Ann Fabrics and Crafts; HSN.com, the home shopping
network Web site; and Giftcertificates.com, a site that sells gift cards from
hundreds of stores.

Most retailers provide free shipping only for orders of $50 or higher. But
merchants have observed that, although consumers historically flocked to retail
Web sites today after spending the weekend browsing at stores, they were still
reluctant to buy.

''It's people coming into browse,'' said William Lynch, general manager of
HSN.com, who added that the purchases on Cyber Monday in 2006 ''were not as high
as we wanted.''

With free shipping, he said, ''we want to convert browsers into buyers.''

ComScore, a research company, predicted that online sales might surpass $700
million today, a record for a single day.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A J. C. Penney store in Ohio opened at 4 a.m. on Friday.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.C1)
 Ceilene Gonzalez, 6, at a Toys ''R'' Us in Manhattan on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               74 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            November 26, 2007 Monday

Yahoo's Cyber Monday Meltdown

BYLINE: BRAD STONE

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 431 words



HIGHLIGHT: Outages in Yahoo&#8217;s service for small online retailers lead to
frustration and a disappointing Cyber Monday for some Web sites.


It appears that Yahoo has thrown some cold water on the hot online shopping day
known as Cyber Monday.

Yahoo helps more than 40,000 small Web businesses run their sites and manage
e-commerce transactions. But Yahoo's Merchant Solutions has been unreliable all
day, according to owners of Web sites that use the service, who are bitterly
complaining that their customers are having difficulty buying merchandise on
what is supposed to be one of the busiest shopping days of the year.

Yahoo itself acknowledged the troubles earlier today and blamed heavy holiday
traffic. "Yahoo's relationship with our merchants is extremely important to us
and we value their loyalty," the company said in an e-mailed statement. "We
apologize for any inconvenience this may have caused and we are continuing to
put processes in place to prevent further disruptions."

That apology rang hollow with small business owners who depend on Yahoo for
their livelihood. "I couldn't have imagined a worse scenario," said Sara
Schwimmer of New York, who runs PopJudaica, a retailer of Jewish products. Ms.
Schwimmer has been using Yahoo to run her site since March of 2004. This year,
she thought that the convergence of Cyber Monday and an early start to Hanukkah
could translate into big revenues.

But orders on her site started to slow at around 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time, as
Yahoo Merchant Solutions system began experiencing problems. The network has yet
to recover nine hours later, Ms. Schwimmer said. "It's been horrifying and it's
a loss of thousands and thousands of dollars. I can only imagine how many people
have given up out of frustration. First impressions are lasting impressions.
There's no telling how much business we lost."

On the bulletin board forums of Webmasterworld, other Web entrepreneurs were
just as stricken.

"Absolute disaster for us...We were having a record weekend and now this... What
a disgrace for Yahoo to have issues on one of the most important days of the
year," wrote a user called "Jwurunner."

"It looks like a full-scale meltdown," wrote another user, "Robsnell."

Added another, "Sbelnick": "They should have been prepared for this - evidently
they were trying to skimp/save on costs and were under prepared for this. This
will cost them in the long run as many merchants will inevitably leave."

Ms. Schwimmer from PopJudaica said she will be among those looking to switch to
another provider after the holiday season. "They are very friendly but in terms
of finding solutions to problems they seem to be very slow or passive about it.
Today was for me the nail in the coffin."

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               75 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            November 26, 2007 Monday

Google Checkout and PayPal Spend Big to Lure Buyers

BYLINE: SAUL HANSELL

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 397 words



HIGHLIGHT: Google Checkout and eBay&#8217;s PayPal generous promotions today to
increase their share of holiday spending. But when they don&#8217;t buy friends,
merchants say neither has much appeal at major online stores.


Behind the pitched Cyber Monday battle of online retailers is the battle of the
payment systems. Both Google Checkout and eBay's PayPal unveiled generous
promotions today to increase their share of holiday spending.

Last year, Google spent heavily on a promotion that offered users as much as $20
off every $50 they spent. Industry executives say Google's system quickly
accounted for more than 10 percent of transactions at sites that offered the
deals, but its share fell  sharply as soon as the discounts were withdrawn.

This year, Google is offering two frequent-flier miles on any of seven airlines
(all the majors except American) for every $1 spent.  It also offers $5 to $50
discounts, with minimum purchase, at several dozen merchants. It has deals with
CompUSA and Drugstore.com, but not a lot of other major retail brands.

PayPal has fewer merchants but its offer is more lucrative for shoppers in some
ways, with 20 percent of purchases credited to the buyer's PayPal account. And
it has more top names including Barnes & Noble, Toys 'R' Us, Hewlett Packard and
eBags. To prevent people from grabbing too many of these incentives, eBay is
capping the rebate at $50 per PayPal account.

It's not clear that any of these promotions will get more than a handful of
people to use either system at sites that take credit cards directly.

"If they can save a few bucks using Google Checkout they'll use it, but they
will revert back to tried and true methods," said Peter Cobb, the senior vice
president at eBags. "PayPal has deeper roots, with the eBay connection, and
people are a little more comfortable with it."

Without promotions, only 2 percent to 5 percent of eBags buyers use Google
Checkout, and between 5 percent and 10 percent use PayPal, Mr. Cobb said.

Major sites like eBags have their own systems to store credit card numbers and
shipping addresses, so PayPal and Google Checkout do not add that much value for
consumers. Things are different for very small sites that use one or the other
as their only payment processing method.

These systems do appeal to people who are shy about spreading their credit card
numbers around, Mr. Cobb said.

"Retail is about overcoming objections," he said. "If people want to use a
payment method, we will take it."

But at the end of the day, how much business is either system going to have if
they don't pay people to be their customers?

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               76 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 28, 2007 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Cyber Monday Spending Rose 21%

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 267 words


American consumers jammed online shopping sites on Monday, the official start of
the holiday season for e-tailers, resulting in robust sales, according to an
Internet research company.

The first Monday after Thanksgiving, known as Cyber Monday, represents the first
big sales surge as consumers return to their offices and click on their
computers to shop.

ComScore, the research company, reported yesterday that consumers spent $733
million online on Monday, a 21 percent gain from the corresponding day a year
ago. ComScore had expected that sales would exceed $700 million.

While Cyber Monday kicks off the online holiday shopping season, it is not the
busiest day for retailers, according to comScore. Last year, the busiest online
shopping day was Wednesday, Dec. 13, generating $667 million in sales. The
Monday after Thanksgiving was actually the 12th busiest day in terms of sales
for the 2006 holiday period.

ComScore said that Monday's sales results represented an 84 percent jump from
the average daily online spending totals during the preceding four weeks.

ComScore reported that the number of online buyers rose 38 percent from a year
ago, but the average dollars spent per buyer were down 12 percent. In a
statement, comScore's chairman, Gian M. Fulgoni, said that he believed that
deeper and broader price discounts depressed sales. He also noted that new Cyber
Monday buyers tended to spend less online than returning buyers.

More than $10.7 billion was spent online from Nov. 1 through Nov. 26,
representing a 17 percent gain from the corresponding days last year, comScore
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               77 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 2, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Tradition: Eat the Turkey, Then Go Online

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE COUNT; Pg.
2

LENGTH: 164 words


Black Friday (the day after Thanksgiving) and Cyber Monday (the Monday after
Thanksgiving) get all the publicity as busy holiday shopping days. But when it
comes to online retail traffic, Thanksgiving itself outperforms both days -- and
has been the busiest day of the entire holiday season for the last four years,
according to Hitwise, an online research firm.

But it's more of a day for looking (and maybe getting away from the family?)
than buying. For actual online sales, a day in mid-December is likely to top the
list. Last year it was Dec. 13, when $667 million in sales was recorded,
according to comScore, another online data firm.

On Thanksgiving this year, three companies that also have brick-and-mortar
stores received the greatest share of online traffic: Wal-Mart, Best Buy and
Circuit City. On Cyber Monday (presumably after people did not find what they
wanted after visiting actual stores on Black Friday) a Web-only company,
Amazon.com, was the busiest retail site.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: On to the Next Holiday. Wal-Mart had the largest share of online
retail traffic this Thanksgiving Day. (Source: Hitwise)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               78 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 3, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Small Merchants Gain Large Presence on Web

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; E-COMMERCE REPORT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 960 words


MOM-AND-POP retailers have helplessly stood by over the last decade as big-box
merchants steamrolled over them. Online, though,  small merchants are not going
down without a fight.

The number of small- and medium-size retailers selling online has swelled in the
last two years, from 21 percent to 32 percent, according to a survey by IDC, a
consulting firm. Aided by less expensive and more sophisticated technology,
stores like RealmDekor.com, CleanAirGardening.com and SitStay.com are competing
with retailers as well as bigger sites like Amazon.

These businesses  lack the huge marketing budgets of their bigger peers, of
course, but they are unearthing cheap advertising methods that, in some cases,
help them compete with million-dollar promotions.

The retailer of quirky home goods,   RealmDekor.com, has experienced occasional
sales increases not because of catalog shipments or television commercials, but
because it formed relationships with bloggers and posted its products on new
''social shopping sites'' like ThisNext.com and StyleHive.com.

''People started posting about my goods and it snowballed from there,'' said
Lisa Mathisen,  RealmDekor's owner. ''I know people think these sites are new
and underground, but they're becoming more mainstream. Even my mother checks
them out to find gifts.''

Social shopping sites emerged last year as places for dedicated shoppers to
exchange tips on popular items or  designers. Tens of thousands of users list
their raves and vie for trendsetter supremacy, while the site owners collect
dollars for referring customers to retailers.

Gordon Gould, chief executive of ThisNext.com, said the site features hundreds
of thousands of products, with a majority of the items coming from smaller
retailers. ''Social shopping sites help the smaller retailers surface their
products and open people up to their specific point of view,'' he said.

CleanAirGardening.com, an online retailer  of environmentally friendly gardening
supplies based in Dallas, recently began posting product demonstration videos on
YouTube and other sites, along with links to the site. According to Lars
Hundley, the company's owner, visitors who arrive from video-sharing sites
purchase goods 20 percent more often than those who come from elsewhere.

Most online shoppers  are so experienced that they feel safer venturing away
from Amazon to buy from lesser-known sites, said Ray Boggs, an IDC analyst. Part
of the reason, perhaps, is that the Web sites now built by many small merchants
lack the amateurish feel of a few years ago.

Companies like Yahoo, Amazon and thousands of independent Web developers have
become considerably better at building slick sites for merchants, sometimes
within a few minutes, for less than $100. Yahoo Store merchants, for instance,
pay $40 to $300 a month, and a commission of 0.75 percent to 1 percent on each
sale. Merchants on the Amazon WebStore pay $60 monthly, along with a 7 percent
commission.

Jimmy Duvall, who oversees the Yahoo Stores service for Yahoo's small business
division, said the company recently introduced a series of enhancements,
intended to simplify the site-building process and improve merchandising.

For instance, Yahoo merchants can now automatically offer a shirt to match a
pair of slacks a customer  bought previously, or a tablecloth to complement
silverware a customer placed into the shopping cart. (In retail parlance, these
techniques are called cross-selling or up-selling.)

''They can do some pretty advanced merchandising now, without having to dedicate
staff to picking items,'' Mr. Duvall said.

In some respects, Yahoo's cross-selling improvements are a response to Amazon's
entry into the market last year. The Amazon WebStore service began with
technology that mimics Amazon.com's recommendation feature, which displays the
purchases of customers who searched for items similar to those on a given page.

In Amazon's latest quarterly results, 32 percent of the goods sold on Amazon's
sites were offered by other merchants.

Those numbers could climb after a technology failure by Yahoo last week  left
its  45,000 merchants without functioning Web sites for much of the big Cyber
Monday  holiday shopping day. Matt  Williams, who oversees the Amazon WebStore
division, said his company had calls from Yahoo clients who were looking to
transfer their stores quickly to his service.

Like Yahoo, Amazon helps its clients attract customers by listing its products
on the site, and by helping ensure the stores appear on search engines. Such
help is critical for beginners, but for more seasoned merchants  hoping to reach
the upper tiers of online retailing, it is not enough.

SitStay.com, an online retailer of goods for dog owners, grew steadily since its
began in 1996. It  now operates from a 20,000-square-foot facility in Lincoln,
Neb. The owners of the 13-employee company, Darcie and Kent Krueger, invested
slightly less than $100,000 in new Web site technology from I.B.M. that,
starting last month, allowed them to more quickly post sales and product
recommendations, among other things.

But because the new technology required SitStay to replace all of its old Web
pages with new ones, search engines no longer rank the site's products near the
top of the results. Because few consumers click to the second or third page of
search results, the effect was significant. Bigger merchants like Petco and
Petsmart, meanwhile, can easily outbid SitStay for prominent ads.

''And more and more sites are coming out all the time, some with a lot of money
they can invest in their search ads,'' Mr. Krueger said. ''So we've got
everything in place to handle a lot more customers. Now, we've just got to find
ways to bring them to us.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lisa Mathisen, owner of RealmDekor.com, a retailer of home
goods, has been able to compete with larger companies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL
HOUGHTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               79 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 6, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Looking Beyond Megapixels

BYLINE: By DAVID POGUE.

''additionalinfo''E-mail: pogue@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STATE OF THE ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1305 words


You may have your holiday traditions: caroling, stockings, candles, whatever.
But here at The New York Times Institute of Gadgetology, we have a tradition of
our own. Every December since 2001, we've asked: ''How much digital camera can
you get for $300?''

For years, that low price pretty much guaranteed low picture quality. Camera
makers spent all their effort groveling at the altar of megapixels, in hopes
that the public would come to associate megapixels with picture quality.

But the manufacturers are finally turning their attention to features that
really do help your photos, like image stabilization (reduces blur in low light)
and face recognition (ensures proper focus and exposure on human subjects). They
haven't eliminated shutter lag (the delay before the picture is snapped) --
you'll have to buy one of those big digital  single-lens reflex cameras for that
luxury -- but there's some improvement this year.

Here they are, then, presented roughly in order of photo quality: the cameras
that the nine major manufacturers consider their finest sub-$300 work. Except as
noted, they're credit-card-size, eight-megapixel models with 3X optical zoom, SD
memory cards and no eyepiece viewfinder. (Don't miss the complete table of
features, and the slide show of samples,  at nytimes.com/tech.)

Casio Exilim EX-V8 ($240). With high-end features like a 7X zoom lens, image
stabilizer and the ability to zoom while shooting movies, you'd think that this
camera would get the highest marks. But no such luck; its photos consistently
trailed the pack. In low light, some were truly awful: murky, sepia-toned,
blurry. You can do light-years better.

Pentax Optio Z10 ($219). This sleek camera offers some unusual features. For
example, it can help recover photos you've deleted accidentally. And its 7X zoom
lens is astonishing, considering that it's completely contained inside the
camera; nothing telescopes outward when you turn the camera on.

Unfortunately, that zooming apparatus eats up a lot of space, leaving only
enough room for a cylindrical battery the size of your pinky. You'll get 180
shots per charge if you're lucky (compared with 330 on, say, the Sony).

There are other problems, too: no image stabilizer, no autofocus-assist lamp for
low light and severe graininess indoors or at night.

Samsung i85 ($266). One thing is for sure: this is the only camera here that
comes with earbuds. That's because it doubles as a basic MP3 music player and
even acts as  an e-book reader; it can page through text files  copied onto it
from a Mac or PC.

The Samsung is a looker, too: shiny stainless steel wrapped around an enormous
three-inch screen. Its photos usually look good, and the flash is powerful. But
because there's no image stabilizer, flashless indoor or nighttime photos are
blurry and doomed.

Nikon Coolpix S700 ($280). For years, Nikon had a split personality: it made
phenomenal digital S.L.R. cameras, but mediocre pocket models. With this camera,
Nikon might be starting to turn things around. The S700's stabilizer virtually
banishes blur, and graininess is a problem only in nighttime shots. The camera
itself looks great, too.

Unfortunately, in sunlight, the 2.7-inch screen turns into a slab of onyx;
without an eyepiece viewfinder, you can't see well enough to take any pictures
at all. (The Pentax has the same problem. The screens on the other cameras here
are bright enough even in direct light.) And this camera's 150-shot battery life
is the worst of the batch.

Kodak Z812IS ($245). This camera won't fit in a pants pocket; it's shaped like a
miniature S.L.R., complete with a sculptured hand grip (and, alas, a detached
lens cap). The payoff, though, is the amazing 12X zoom, which is enormously
useful in shooting sports, school plays and anything surreptitiously.

Of course, zooming magnifies your hand jitters; fortunately, the IS in this
camera's name stands for image stabilizer.

The camera takes great movies, even in high definition (at a full 30 frames a
second). In fact, the Z812 can both zoom and refocus while you're filming, which
is a rarity in still cameras. Nice.

Most of the photos came out great; a nighttime shot of a Miami Beach restaurant
festooned by neon signs was practically magazine-worthy. The Kodak muffed only a
few shots, generally night scenes.

There is an eyepiece viewfinder on this camera, but it's not a true optical one;
it's electronic, meaning that you're peering into another screen, and a somewhat
coarse one at that.

Sony Cyber-shot DSC-H3 ($270). This camera, like the Kodak, is also shaped like
a mini-S.L.R. and has a stabilized superzoom lens (10X). It feels wonderful in
your hand.

Other goodies: With a $40 component cable, you can display your photos in
spectacular high definition on an HDTV. And the H3 has the clearest, easiest,
smartest button and menu design of the year. The only question: On a bigger
camera like this one, why not include an optical viewfinder?

Like many Sony cameras, this one sometimes produces a slight bluish cast. But
otherwise, it does a terrific job, even indoors, even without the flash. It
blurred only a single torture-test photo: palm trees at night, illuminated only
by reflected swimming-pool light.

Panasonic Lumix FX55 ($300). The menus on this camera's huge three-inch screen
are something out of the Stone Age: huge, pixellated words in all caps, as
though the camera is shouting at you.

On the other hand, the Lumix has an enormous wide-angle view; compared with the
narrow fields of view on the Nikon and Sony, these photos are practically
panoramas. The advertisements always promote the telephoto (zoom) powers of
cameras, but wide-angle ability is arguably even more important, at least on
vacations to scenic places.

And the Lumix's photos are nearly impeccable. They're grain-free, smoothly toned
and perfectly exposed. Only one shot tripped up the Lumix: the same
pool-and-palms shot that stymied the Sony.

Canon PowerShot SD850 IS ($256). This camera's awesome predecessor cost $360
last year. Now you can get the same vivid photos and movies for $256.

But that's not all! Yes, folks,  you also get image stabilization, face
recognition, 4X optical zoom and   a genuine optical eyepiece viewfinder. It's
the only optical viewfinder of these $300 cameras, in fact. Canon, mercifully,
is bucking the trend on this great little machine.

Fujifilm FinePix F50fd ($234). For the last several years, Fuji has been
spending big R.& D. dollars on nailing the low-light problem. ''If we can put a
man on the moon,'' they evidently muttered, ''surely we can design a pocket
camera that takes nighttime and indoor photos without grain, blur or flash.''

This camera is it. The 12-megapixel photos are delightful; indoors, outdoors,
with the flash or without. Even those poolside palm trees came out sharp and
clear.

One probable reason is that the F50fd's sensor is more than   50 percent bigger
than those on most of the other cameras: 0.625 inch diagonal, versus 0.4. Now
that's a statistic -- not megapixels -- that matters in a camera.

More good news: the F50fd accepts standard SD cards in addition to the
proprietary, expensive XD memory cards that Fuji has been pushing for years. How
can this be the second-least-expensive camera of the batch?

The bottom line: some of this year's cameras truly rock. If you want a pocket
model, consider the Lumix for its wide angle, the Canon for its 4X zoom and
optical viewfinder or the Fujifilm for its amazing natural-light performance. If
you're willing to pack something bigger, you can get a lot more zoom for your
buck with the Kodak or the Sony. Congratulations to these companies for getting
back to photo-quality basics this year -- and to you, dear customer, for doing
your homework.

E-mail: pogue@nytimes.com

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Counterclockwise from left: the Sony Cyber-shot DSCH3, the
Panasonic Lumix FX55 and the Kodak Z812IS.(pg. C9)  DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART
GOLDENBERG)(pg. C1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               80 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 7, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tennessee: Lab Reports Cyber Attack

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 145 words


The Oak Ridge National Laboratory said a ''sophisticated cyber attack'' over the
last few weeks might have allowed personal information about thousands of
laboratory visitors to be stolen. The attack appeared ''to be part of a
coordinated effort to gain access to computer networks at numerous laboratories
and other institutions across the country,'' the laboratory's director, Thom
Mason, said in a memorandum to the 4,200 employees of the facility, part of the
Department of Energy. Laboratory officials said hackers might have infiltrated a
database of names, Social Security numbers and birth dates of every laboratory
visitor from 1990 to 2004. Officials have sent letters to about 12,000 potential
victims. The assault was in the form of phony e-mail messages containing
attachments, which when opened allowed hackers to penetrate the laboratory's
computer security.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               81 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 7, 2007 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Park City Mountain Resort

BYLINE: By ALISON BERKLEY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Escapes; SKI GUIDE; Pg.

LENGTH: 935 words


Park City, Utah; (435) 649-8111; www.parkcitymountain.com

PARK CITY delivers plenty of ''the greatest snow on earth'' (the slogan on Utah
license plates) with an average of 355 inches of its dry, light powder every
year. With its debut on the Olympic marquee in 2002 and signature annual events
like the Sundance Film Festival, it appears Park City has landed on the map of
legendary ski resorts -- at least when those big parties come to town.
Otherwise, the base village and small downtown lack the glitz and glamour of
Aspen or Vail, even if the $79 lift ticket does sing a more upscale tune. And
while the ski area does have a variety of terrain, from the untracked bowls of
Jupiter Peak  to the wide-open groomed runs off the King Con  lift, the mountain
has more of an old-ski-area feel, with rickety outdated lifts outnumbering the
more modern high-speed variety.

Situated at 6,900 feet above sea level, the thin air is noticeable as you huff
it up the hill that is Park City's Main Street. Candy-colored Victorians and
other relics of the mining era lend the town a distinct Old West charm that's
noticeably absent from the urban sprawl that surrounds most of Salt Lake City.
The Town Lift  effectively connects the historic downtown and the ski area.

STATS

Summit  10,000 feet Vertical Drop 3,100 feet Terrain 3,300 acres Trails 106, up
to 3.5 miles long  Lifts 15: 4 high-speed six-packs, 2 high-speed quads, 5
triples, 4 doubles Price $79 for a full day Rentals  $20 to $40 for skis or a
snowboard Average Season Dates Nov. 18 through April 14

BEST MORNING RUN On a powder day, head straight to Jupiter Bowl for a taste of
the uncut, untracked terrain that Utah is best known for. If local residents
have already tracked it out, try a tree line on Jupiter Bowl known as Land of
Giants  -- it isn't on the map, but look for the gate on your left off the
Shadow Ridge run.

BEST AFTERNOON RUN  McConkey's Lift, which brings you to the double-black
diamond McConkey's Bowl, now also accesses a new intermediate run, Georgeanna ,
an alternate route for the end of the day when your legs have had enough of the
steep and deep.

INSIDER'S TIP  Upgrade your ticket to a Fast Tracks Pass ($25 extra for a
single-day lift ticket) that can be scanned through a lift gate to bypass long
lines. Or avoid crowds by skiing over on the Pioneer Lift , a slower lift that
is also one of the most scenic on the mountain.

FAMILY INFORMATION Kids Signature 3 lessons start at age 3 1/2, with only three
children per ski class. The Kids Signature 5 program guarantees five or fewer
kids per ski or snowboard class for ages 6 to 14. Check out the Family Planner
online and select Family Tours, an interactive guide that provides information
on everything from where to eat on the mountain to calculating how many vertical
feet skied each day (www.mymountainplanner.com).

DINING

Breakfast  Grab a high-octane latte and a muffin and join the locals on the
comfy couches at the Alpine Internet Cyber Cafe (738 Main Street; 435-649-0051;
www.alpineinternet.net). Just don't step on the dogs who typically lounge around
outside.

On-Mountain Dining It's worth a run down to the base to eat at Legends Bar and
Grill  in the Legacy Lodge at the Payday Lift (435-649-8111;
www.parkcitymountain.com) for fare like the Chop Chop salad (provolone, Cheddar,
artichoke hearts, tomatoes and fresh greens) with salmon, halibut, tuna or
chicken ($13.95) and a pint of a local beer, like Wasatch Belgium and Squatters
Provo Girl ($4.50).

Low-End, In-Town Dining Just off Main Street, less is more when it comes to the
decor, the location and the food at El Chabasco (1890 Bonanza Drive No. 115;
435-645-9114). Basic Mexican fare like fajitas ($8.65), chili relleno ($6.35)
and burritos ($5.75) are as tasty and filling as they are cheap. The only real
frill is the extensive salsa bar, which has enough hot sauce to raise the
temperature even on the coldest winter day.

High-End, In-Town DiningShabu (333 Main Street; 435-645-7253; www.shabupc.com)
is the place to eat and be seen, and has freestyle Asian cuisine prepared by the
brothers Bob and Kevin Valaika, who apprenticed at Nobu. Try the nitro roll,
which has tempura shrimp, avocado, pineapple and mango, rolled inside-out with
tobiko, and wrapped in tuna, served with a Japanese red pepper citrus sauce
($15). Wash it down with a hazelnut haze sake ($6).

NIGHT LIFE

Apres-Ski The party starts early at the No Name Saloon, a rustic, no-frills bar
that carries on the tradition of the Wild West in downtown Park City (447 Main
Street; 435-649-6667).

Apres Apres-Ski The Sidecar Bar (333 Main Street, 435-645-7468;
www.sidecarbar.com) is Park City's newest and most happening nightclub. Live
music (ranging from funk to rock to salsa) and late-night homemade 20-inch
pizzas (from $16) are served until 1 a.m. to keep everyone dancing, even after a
long day of skiing.

LODGING

Frugal For affordable, family-style lodging, stay in Kimball Junction, less than
two miles from the center of town, where chain hotels like the Holiday Inn
Express and Suites (1501 Ute Boulevard; 435-658-1600; www.hieparkcity.com) offer
significantly lower rates (from $179 a night).

Not So Frugal The Washington School Inn (543 Park Avenue; 435-649-3800;
www.washingtonschoolinn.com) was built in 1889, and the old schoolhouse is
listed on the National Register of Historic Places and was one of the few
structures to survive the Great Fire of 1898. The inn sits near Main Street and
the Town Lift. Rates range from $305 to $620 a night.

Share your review of Park City Mountain Resort.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               82 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 9, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

China Link Suspected In Hacking Of Arms Lab

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 617 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 8


A cyber attack reported last week by one of the federal government's nuclear
weapons laboratories may have originated in China, according to a confidential
memorandum distributed Wednesday to public and private security officials by the
Department of Homeland Security.

Security researchers said the memorandum, which was obtained by The New York
Times from an executive at a private company, included a list of Web and
Internet addresses that were linked to locations in China. However, they noted
that such links did not prove that the Chinese government or Chinese citizens
were involved in the attacks. In the past, intruders have compromised computers
in China and then used them to disguise their true location.

Officials at the lab, Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee, said the
attacks did not compromise classified information, though they acknowledged that
they were still working to understand the full extent of the intrusion.

The Department of Homeland Security distributed the confidential warning to
computer security officials on Wednesday after what it described as a set of
''sophisticated attempts'' to compromise computers used by the private sector
and the government.

Government computer security officials said the warning, which was issued by the
United States Computer Emergency Response Team, known as US-CERT, was related to
an October attack that was also disclosed last week by officials at the Oak
Ridge laboratory.

According to a letter to employees written by the laboratory's director, Thom
Mason, an unknown group of attackers sent targeted e-mail messages to roughly
1,100 employees as part of the ruse.

''At this point, we have determined that the thieves made approximately 1,100
attempts to steal data with a very sophisticated strategy that involved sending
staff a total of seven 'phishing' e-mails, all of which at first glance appeared
legitimate,'' he wrote in an e-mail message sent to employees on Monday. ''At
present we believe that about 11 staff opened the attachments, which enabled the
hackers to infiltrate the system and remove data.''

In a statement posted on the laboratory's Web site, the agency stated: ''The
original e-mail and first potential corruption occurred on October 29, 2007. We
have reason to believe that data was stolen from a database used for visitors to
the Laboratory.''

The laboratory said the attackers were able to gain access to a database
containing personal information about visitors to the laboratory going back to
1990.

The US-CERT advisory, which was not made public, stated: ''The level of
sophistication and the scope of these cyber security incidents indicate that
they are coordinated and targeted at private sector systems.''

The US-CERT memo referred to the use of e-mail messages that fool employees into
clicking on documents that then permit attackers to plant programs in their
computers. These programs are then able to copy and forward specific data --
like passwords -- to remote locations.

Despite improvements in computer security, phishing attacks are still a big
problem. In the case of the Oak Ridge intrusion, the e-mail messages were made
to seem authentic. One described a scientific conference and another referred to
a Federal Trade Commission complaint.

Computer security researchers cautioned that despite the US-CERT description of
the attacks as sophisticated, such threats are frequently undertaken by amateur
computer hackers.

Classified federal computer networks are not supposed to be connected physically
to the open Internet. Even so, sensitive data like employee e-mail databases can
easily be compromised once access is gained to computers inside federal
agencies.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               83 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 19, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Colorado Decertifies Machines For Voting

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: DENVER


Thousands of Colorado's electronic voting machines do not work properly and have
been decertified, according to a review by the Colorado secretary of state that
has left elections officials scrambling to find viable machines in time for
local and Congressional primary elections in August and the presidential
election in November.

At a hearing at the state Capitol on Tuesday, the secretary of state, Mike
Coffman, urged legislators to amend state law ''due to extraordinary
circumstances'' so counties could fix the machines for next year's primaries on
Aug. 12 and the general election on Nov. 4. He asked lawmakers to allow counties
to use a software patch that could potentially improve their electronic voting
systems and suggested that once those improvements were made, testing data from
other states be used to expedite the certification process in Colorado.

''We identified obvious problems, and there's no way we could ignore them,'' Mr.
Coffman said in an interview, a day after he announced the results of the
review,  ordered in September 2006 by a state judge who ruled that Colorado's
process for certifying voting machines was inadequate. ''It is going to take
some leadership and changes to state law to address this.''

The review, by electronic voting systems experts, outside auditors and cyber
-security specialists, found multiple problems with machines that were made by
Sequoia Voting Systems, Hart InterCivic and Election Systems & Software and that
are used in 52 of Colorado's 64 counties, including Denver.

Two types of Sequoia electronic machines could not accurately trace security
breaches, the review found. Hart's optical scan machines did not count votes
accurately, and the optical scan and electronic machines made by Election
Systems & Software suffered programming errors and could  be disabled by voters.

All three companies defended their machines, saying they had been used
successfully throughout the country. And they pledged to work with state and
local elections officials in Colorado to correct any problems.

Last week, the Ohio secretary of state, Jennifer Brunner, released a review of
electronic voting systems there that found critical security flaws in systems by
Hart and Election Systems & Software, as well as another company, Premier
Election Solutions, formerly known as Diebold.

The Colorado report did not find fault with Premier machines, which Claudia
Kuhns, executive director of the Public Integrity Project, which supports the
use of paper ballots in Colorado, said, ''troubles me a great deal.''

Following the Ohio review, a Premier spokesman, Chris Riggall, said in a
statement that ''many of the listed potential vulnerabilities are issues which
have been identified in previous studies.''

''In response to those previous recommendations,'' he  said, ''Premier has
performed a host of modifications and enhancements to its software to further
strengthen system security.''

It is unclear what action the state General Assembly will take when it convenes
in January, but some legislators said they shared Mr. Coffman's sense of
urgency.

''The bell has been rung on the problems of electronic voting machines,'' said
the State Senate majority leader, Ken Gordon, Democrat of Denver, an advocate of
mail ballot elections.

Some county clerks in Colorado said they were weighing whether to appeal Mr.
Coffman's decertification of their machines, a decision they must make within 30
days.

The Arapahoe County clerk and recorder, Nancy Doty, said Mr. Coffman had just
decertified 225 Sequoia touch screen machines she bought last year for $1.3
million. ''I was very disappointed, but we will be working with the state to
address any concerns,'' Ms. Doty said. ''One way or another, I will have an
election next year.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               84 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 26, 2007 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Disappointing Sales During Holiday Season

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 934 words


American consumers, uneasy about the economy and unimpressed by the merchandise
in stores, delivered the bleak holiday shopping season retailers had expected,
if not feared, according to one early but influential projection.

Spending between Thanksgiving and Christmas rose just 3.6 percent over last
year, the weakest performance in at least four years, according to MasterCard
Advisors, a division of the credit card company. By comparison, sales grew 6.6
percent in 2006, and 8 percent in 2005.

''There was not a recipe for a pick up in sales growth,'' said Michael McNamara,
vice president of research and analysis at MasterCard Advisors, citing higher
gas prices, a slowing housing market and a tight credit market.

Strong demand at the start of the season for a handful of must-have electronics,
like digital frames and portable GPS navigation systems trailed off in December.
And robust sales of luxury products could not make up for sluggish sales of
jewelry and women's clothing.

What did eventually sell was generally marked down -- once, if not twice --
which could hurt retailers' profits in the final three months of year. ''Stores
are buying those sales at a cost,'' said Sherif Mityas, a partner at the
consulting firm A.T. Kearney, who specializes in retailing.

MasterCard's SpendingPulse data, scheduled to be released Wednesday, cover the
32-day period between Nov. 23 and Dec. 24. It is based on purchases made by more
than 300 million MasterCard debit and credit card users and broader estimates of
spending with cash and checks. It encompasses sales at stores, on the Internet,
of gift cards, gasoline and meals at restaurants.

The final numbers are in line with MasterCard's already modest expectations,
which were reduced in the middle of the season. But retail analysts and
economists, who scrutinize holiday spending for clues about the health of the
American economy, are unlikely to be impressed by the results.

Eboni Jones, 32, of Windsor, Conn., epitomized the problem for stores.

A phone company manager, she waited until this past weekend to make a single
purchase at a major chain store this season, favoring Web retailers and designer
outlet stores with deeper bargains.

''I am on a tighter budget that I've ever been,'' said Ms. Jones, who walked
into the Macy's at Westfarms Mall in Farmington, Conn., on Sunday morning to
take advantage of a sale.

In the past, she easily spent $100 each on her six nieces and nephews. This
year, it was more like $50. ''If it's not on sale, I won't buy it,'' Ms. Jones
said.

MasterCard found that online spending rose 22.4 percent, a healthy, if not
robust, showing, given fears that Web purchases would slow after a decade of
impressive growth.

Clothing sales rose a meager 1.4 percent, but there was a stark split between
genders. Sales for women's apparel dropped 2.4 percent. Sales for men's apparel
rose 2.3 percent. Analysts said women complained of dreary fashions.

''Even when the dust settles, women's clothing is likely to be one of the
weakest categories in retail this season,'' said John D. Morris, senior retail
analyst at Wachovia Securities.

Luxury purchases rose 7.1 percent, as the nation's well-heeled splurged on $600
Marc Jacobs trench coats and $800 Christian Louboutin shoes. Footwear, at all
prices, proved a bright spot for the clothing industry, with sales surging 6
percent.

Weak sales of clothing left retailers jostling for the deepest if not most
desperate discounts over the last weekend to drum up interest from consumers.
Martin & Osa knocked 50 percent off women's wool sweaters. Gymboree issued $25
coupons to shoppers who spent $50 on its children's clothing. Even the
markdown-averse Abercrombie & Fitch dusted off its clearance signs, selling $99
faux-fur trimmed-down coats for $79.

The American consumer has perplexed analysts this season. Retail experts
confidently predicted that shoppers, uneasy about the economy, would trade down
from mid-price chains, like Macy's and Nordstrom, to discounters with steeper
discounts.

To a certain degree, they did, mobbing low-priced chains like T.J Maxx, and
Marshall's.  But the discount retailer Target has struggled this season. On
Tuesday, it  said its sales could fall by 1 percent in December compared with
last year, an anomaly for a retailer accustomed to at least 4 percent monthly
sales growth over the last three years.

In the end, analysts said, the biggest winners are likely to be Wal-Mart, which
emerged as the undisputed low-price leader this season, and Best Buy, which
became the destination for competitively priced electronics.

Much of this season's action appeared to unfold on the Web, which spared
consumers a $3-a-gallon drive to the mall. Like MasterCard, ComScore, a research
firm, found that online spending rose steadily to $26.3 billion.

ComScore measured spending during the 51 days between Nov. 1 and Dec. 21. The
biggest day for online shopping was Monday, Dec. 10 ($881 million), not the
Monday after Thanksgiving ($733 million), known as Cyber Monday in the retail
world, because consumers typically flock to the Web at work after a holiday
weekend of browsing.

Unsatisfied with sales so far, dozens of retailers, from the high-end to the
low, will start slashing prices Wednesday morning. Kohl's is scheduled to hold a
60- to 70-percent off sale; Macy's is knocking down prices by 50 to 70 percent,
and dangling a $10 coupon for purchases of $25 or more; clothing will be 50
percent off at Saks Fifth Avenue between 8 a.m. and noon; and Toys ''R'' Us is
offering a buy-one-get-one-half-off promotion.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               85 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 26, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Holiday Spending Is Weak, Just as Retailers Expected

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 990 words


American consumers, uneasy about the economy and unimpressed by the merchandise
in stores, delivered the bleak holiday shopping season retailers had expected,
if not feared, according to one early but influential projection.

Spending from Thanksgiving to Christmas rose just 3.6 percent over last year,
the weakest performance in at least four years, according to MasterCard
Advisors, a division of the credit card company. By comparison, sales grew 6.6
percent in 2006 and 8.7 percent in 2005.

''There was not a recipe for a pickup in sales growth,'' said Michael McNamara,
vice president for research and analysis at MasterCard Advisors, citing higher
gas prices, a slowing housing market and a tight credit market.

Strong demand at the start of the season for a handful of must-have electronics,
like digital frames and portable G.P.S. navigation systems, trailed off in
December. And robust sales of luxury products could not make up for sluggish
sales of jewelry and women's clothing.

What did eventually sell was generally marked down -- once, if not twice --
which could hurt retailers' profits in the final three months of year. ''Stores
are buying those sales at a cost,'' said Sherif Mityas, a partner at the
consulting firm A. T. Kearney, who specializes in retailing.

MasterCard's SpendingPulse data, scheduled to be released Wednesday, cover the
32-day period from Nov. 23 to Dec. 24. It is based on purchases made by more
than 300 million MasterCard debit and credit card users and broader estimates of
spending with cash and checks. It encompasses sales at stores and on the
Internet, and of gift cards, gasoline and meals at restaurants, but is not
adjusted for inflation.

Excluding gas purchases, overall holiday sales rose a lackluster 2.4 percent,
the credit card company said.

The final numbers are at the low end of MasterCard's already modest
expectations, which were reduced in the middle of the season. So retail analysts
and economists, who scrutinize holiday spending for clues about the health of
the American economy, are unlikely to be impressed by the results.

Eboni Jones, 32, of Windsor, Conn., epitomized the problem for stores.

A phone company manager, she waited until Christmas Eve to make a single
purchase at a major chain store this season, favoring Web retailers and designer
outlet stores offering deep  bargains.

''I am on a tighter budget than I've ever been,'' said Ms. Jones, who walked
into the Macy's at Westfarms Mall in Farmington, Conn., on Monday morning to
take advantage of a sale.

In the past, she easily spent $100 each on her six nieces and nephews. This
year, it was more like $50. ''If it's not on sale, I won't buy it,'' Ms. Jones
said.

MasterCard found that online spending rose 22.4 percent, a strong showing, given
fears that Web purchases would slow after a decade of impressive growth.

Clothing sales rose a meager 1.4 percent, but there was a stark split between
genders. Sales for women's apparel dropped 2.4 percent. Sales for men's apparel
rose 2.3 percent. Analysts said women complained of dreary fashions.

''Even when the dust settles, women's clothing is likely to be one of the
weakest categories in retail this season,'' said John D. Morris, senior retail
analyst at Wachovia Securities.

Luxury purchases rose 7.1 percent, as the  well-heeled splurged on $600 Marc
Jacobs trench coats and $800 Christian Louboutin shoes. Footwear, at all prices,
proved a bright spot for the clothing industry, with sales surging 6 percent.

Weak sales of clothing left retailers jostling for the deepest discounts during
the last weekend to drum up interest from consumers. Martin & Osa knocked 50
percent off women's wool sweaters. Gymboree issued $25 coupons to shoppers who
spent $50 on its children's clothing. Even the markdown-averse Abercrombie &
Fitch dusted off its clearance signs, selling  down coats with faux fur trim for
$79, reduced from $99.

The American consumer has perplexed analysts this season. Retail experts
confidently predicted that shoppers, uncertain about the economy, would trade
down from midprice chains, like Macy's and Nordstrom, to discounters with
steeper discounts.

To a certain degree, they did, mobbing low-price chains like T. J. Maxx, and
Marshalls.  But the discount retailer Target has struggled this season. On
Monday, it  said its sales could fall by 1 percent in December compared with
last year, an anomaly for a retailer accustomed to at least 4 percent monthly
sales growth over the last three years.

In the end, analysts said, the biggest winners are likely to be Wal-Mart, which
emerged as the undisputed low-price leader this season, and Best Buy, which
became the destination for competitively priced electronics.

Much of this season's action appeared to unfold on the Web, which spared
consumers a $3-a-gallon drive to the mall. Like MasterCard, ComScore, a research
firm, found that online spending rose steadily to $26.3 billion.

ComScore measured spending during the 51 days from Nov. 1 to Dec. 21. The
biggest day for online shopping was Monday, Dec. 10 ($881 million), not the
Monday after Thanksgiving ($733 million), known as Cyber Monday in the retail
world, because consumers typically flock to the Web at work after a holiday
weekend of store browsing.

Unsatisfied with sales so far, dozens of retailers, from the high-end to the
low, will start slashing prices Wednesday morning. Kohl's is scheduled to hold a
sale with 60 to 70 percent discounts; Macy's is knocking down prices by 50 to 70
percent, and dangling a $10 coupon for purchases of $25 or more; some clothing
will be 50 percent off at Saks Fifth Avenue from  8 a.m. to noon; and Toys ''R''
Us is offering a buy-one-get-one-half-off promotion.

MasterCard Advisors predicts that shoppers will spend up to $60 billion over the
next seven days, as they redeem gift cards and exchange unwanted ties and
sweaters for the items they truly want.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shoppers near the Christmas tree at Rockefeller Center in
Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.C1)
Struggling with tepid sales, many retailers like Macy's, above, intend to cut
prices drastically on Wednesday. Macy's also plans to offer a coupon for $10 on
purchases of $25 or more. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KELLY SHIMODA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(pg.C4) CHART: A MIXED BAG: Preliminary estimates show that spending in some
retail categories was up this year from Thanksgiving to Christmas. (SOURCE:
MASTERCARD
 ADVISORS: SPENDINGPULSE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               86 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 28, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Holiday Online Receipts Are Strong, but Reflect a Decline in Rate of Growth

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1269 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


The latest  mixed-bag of news for retailers hails from cyberspace: holiday
e-commerce sales were robust, but showed their slowest-ever growth, industry
analysts projected.

The sales growth of 19 percent, while enviable for traditional retailers,  was
down sharply from the 25 percent to 30 percent growth rates of recent years.
Retail industry analysts said the deceleration underscored a tight economy, but
also reflected changing consumer and retailing habits.

And it is consistent with a broader slowdown in the growth rates for Internet
retailing  --  making the holidays of 2007 a vivid example of the changing
growth curve for online sales.

When the receipts are tallied from this holiday, American consumers will have
spent around $29.5 billion at Internet shops, according to projections published
by comScore, a market research firm.  ''The growth rates for previous years were
clearly much higher,'' said Andrew Lipsman, spokesman for comScore. The research
firm did not have growth rates before 2003,  but Mr. Lipsman suspected that they
were 25 percent or more.

It also is far higher than the rate of growth in offline sales, according to
preliminary projections. This week, MasterCard Advisors, a division of the
credit card company, estimated that sales grew 3.6 percent from Thanksgiving to
Christmas, compared with growth rates of 6.6 percent in 2006 and 8.7 percent in
2007.

Scott Silverman, executive director of the online shopping affiliate of the
National Retail Federation called shop.org,  said that given the size of the
Internet retail market, the industry would be hard-pressed to maintain its past
growth rates. Shop.org is projecting that Internet sales will be up 18 percent
over all in 2007, compared with around 25 percent in recent years.

Analysts said that Internet retailing was so large -- projected to be more than
$120 billion this year -- that it would be difficult to maintain the high growth
rates. Indeed, analysts said, the e-commerce engine continues to set  a torrid
pace, taking  shares from brick-and-mortar stores.

The 19 percent growth clip for online sales is around five times the rate of
growth for the offline stores; a year ago, the online world was growing around
four times more quickly.

Robert A. Bowman, chief executive of mlb.com, the online division of Major
League Baseball, said, ''The multiple is holding. It will continue to do so,''
adding that ''it will continue to take share for at least the next five years''
from the offline world.

Mr. Silverman characterized the holiday e-commerce season as healthy.

''The season met expectations,'' he said. ''It's important to take into
consideration that 19 percent growth, while it's not 25 percent, is still a lot
stronger and healthier than overall retail growth.''

According to the Nielsen Online Holiday Survey for December, traditional gift
categories fared well among online shoppers. Its survey taken from Dec. 13 to
Dec. 17, found that 43 percent had purchased clothing or shoes, 35 percent had
bought books, 34 percent movies, and 28 percent toys or nonelectronic games.

Amazon.com, which declared that it had its best holiday selling season, said
that particularly popular items included the Nintendo Wii game console, DVD
players, digital cameras and G.P.S. devices. Popular DVDs included ''Harry
Potter and the Order of the Phoenix,'' and ''Pirates of the Caribbean: At
World's End.''

Consistent with broader Internet retailing data, Amazon.com said that its
biggest shopping day had been Dec. 10. And it said that Amazon.com customers had
ordered more than 5.4 million items, which was 62.5 items a second on that day.
Bonnie Toriello, co-owner of the Spoonsisters.com, a boutique gift Web site,
said that sales had risen 31 percent from a year ago, and she said that the
hot-selling items appeared to be those that were both fun and functional.
''People are going more for price point and they want functionality. It's not
frivolous right now,'' she said.

She said that popular items included $20 wristbands for carpenters or household
tinkerers that include a magnet that is used to holds nuts, bolts and screws.
She said the company had sold about 3,000 of them. Also popular, she said, were
holders for mobile phone chargers, and a $7 melamine plastic serving spoon
bearing  a happy face.

Marshal Cohen, chief retail analyst with the NPD Group, a market research firm,
said that retailers historically saved the steepest discounts for their
brick-and-mortar stores as a way of attracting shoppers. This year, many
sacrificed that opportunity.

Discounts came both from traditional retailers with online stores and from
online-only merchants. Among the promotions offered on Nov. 26 -- the so-called
Cyber-Monday, when holiday online retail sales are expected to start in earnest
after Thanksgiving  -- the online jeweler Diamonds.com offered 20 percent off
much of its merchandise, the book retailer barnesandnoble.com gave a free travel
bag with any $75 purchase and Meijer.com  offered 40 percent off  rugs, and 30
percent off G.P.S. devices.

Meijer, a general merchandiser in the Midwest, said electronics continued to be
a preference for many online shoppers. In addition to game  systems, MP3 players
and player accessories, customers are becoming more comfortable buying larger
items such as liquid-crystal display, or L.C.D., televisions online.

In the last several days, online retailers have begun sending out a new round of
promotions that mirror the inventory clearance sales at brick-and-mortar
retailers.

Another primary price-cutting tactic used by online retailers was to offer
shipping discounts. This season, 68 percent of retailers offered free upgrades
for express shipping, up from 49 percent a year ago, according to shop.org.

ComScore, which tracks transaction and browsing patterns of a  million Internet
users in the United States, found  that consumers spent 12 percent less on Cyber
Monday this year than they did a year ago, though the number of buyers was up 38
percent. Mr. Lipsman, the spokesman for comScore, said the company did not yet
have an absolute dollar figures from the day.

He said the slowdown in growth rates for Internet spending appeared to represent
a tipping point -- one driven in part by a tough economy. ''Economic factors
also have dampened spending this season, and e-commerce was certainly not immune
from those effects,'' he said.

Mr. Silverman, from shop.org,  said that Internet retailing had gotten so big
and its demographic reach so broad that it was  bound to both influence -- and
be influenced by -- macro-economic trends.

He said that in years past, Internet shoppers tended to be wealthier but that
''online buying populations every year look  more and more like the regular U.S.
population.'' But others in the industry are not so sure that Internet commerce
is tracking macro-economic conditions. William Lynch, executive vice president
and general manager of hsn.com, the online arm of the Home Shopping Network,
said that it was not clear yet to him whether macro-economic trends took a toll
on the growth of online shopping.

''I don't know that the fact that there was a slight decrease in the growth rate
of online retail was a function of the economy so much as it was the slight
maturing of online retail,'' he said. ''The jury is out on that.''

But other retailers and analysts  said they expected the growth rate for
Internet sales would continue to slow down.   ''It's a large-numbers law,'' said
Mark S. Mahaney, director for Internet research at Citigroup Investment
Research.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jason Zucchetto shopped online on Nov. 26 at an event in
Washington held by the National Retail Federation. Online sales growth fell
after gains of  as much as 25 to 30 percent in recent years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM
SLOAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company
