
                               1 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            January 3, 2013 Thursday

Barnes & Noble Reports Decline in Nook Sales

BYLINE: DEALBOOK

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 310 words



HIGHLIGHT: A week after a big investment by Pearson, Barnes &#038; Noble says
that revenue for its Nook unit - including e-readers, digital content and
accessories - fell 12.6 percent, to $311 million, during the holiday shopping
season.


The  state of Barnes & Noble's struggling digital Nook Media business, which
last week received a significant investment from Pearson, became more clear on
Thursday.

The bookseller said revenue for the Nook unit - including e-readers, digital
content and accessories - fell 12.6 percent, to $311 million, during the holiday
shopping season, compared with the period a year earlier. Digital content sales
rose 13.1 percent, while sales of Nook devices declined.

"Nook device sales got off to a good start over the Black Friday period, but
then fell short of expectations for the balance of holiday," William J. Lynch
Jr., chief executive of Barnes & Noble, said in a statement. "We are examining
the root cause of the December shortfall in sales, and will adjust our
strategies accordingly going forward."

The company said that as result of the sales shortfall, it was forecasting Nook
unit revenue of $3 billion for the fiscal year and losses "at a comparable level
to fiscal year 2012."

The Nook business has in the past generated talk of acquisition interest or a
full spinoff to  Barnes & Noble shareholders. And it has attracted some big name
investors. Yet the digital business has struggled to compete with Amazon.com,
the leader with its Kindle e-readers, as well as with Apple and Google.

Pearson, the big British education company and publisher of The Financial Times,
agreed last week to invest $89.5 million into Nook Media for a 5 percent stake.
It was also granted warrants to buy an additional 5 percent stake.

Pearson's investment comes after a $300 million investment in the Nook by
Microsoft in April.

Pearson's investment valued the Nook business at $1.8 billion. That is nearly
double  Barnes & Noble's market value of $869 million as of Wednesday.


     ·    Pearson to Take Stake in Nook Unit
     ·    Financial Times Up for Sale, Report Says, but Pearson Says Not So Fast


LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             January 4, 2013 Friday

U.S. Banks Again Hit by Wave of Cyberattacks

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 799 words



HIGHLIGHT: For the last week, hackers struck the Web sites of several American
banks with so-called denial of service attacks. The attacks appear to be the
second wave of a hacking campaign that began in September, when a hacker group
calling itself Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters took credit for a series of
attacks on banking sites in retaliation for an anti-Islam video that was posted
online in the United States.


For the last week, hackers have - once again - attacked the online banking sites
of several American banks.

The attacks appear to be the second stage of a campaign that began in September,
when a hacker group calling itself Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters took
credit for a series of attacks on the Web sites of Bank of America, Citigroup,
U.S. Bank, Wells Fargo and PNC  that caused intermittent delays.

The group said it had attacked the banks in retaliation for an anti-Islam video
that mocked the Prophet Muhammad and pledged to continue its campaign until the
video was removed from the Internet. They called the campaign Operation Ababil,
a Koran reference to the swallows Allah sent to attack an army of elephants
dispatched by the King of Yemen to attack Mecca in 571 A.D.

In an online post on Tuesday, the group said that it had resumed Operation
Ababil and that, over the last several weeks, it had focused on nine banks:
JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Citigroup, Wells Fargo, U.S. Bancorp, PNC,
BB&T, Suntrust and Regions Financial.

"Our aim of this operation is removal of that insulting and absurd film," the
hackers wrote in an online post.

Of the nine banks, representatives of PNC, BB&T and Citigroup confirmed that
their online banking sites had experienced intermittent disruptions because of a
high volume of Web traffic, but they said that bank accounts and customer
information had not been affected. Though they were not mentioned in the group's
online hit list, Capital One and Fifth Third Bank also experienced brief
disruptions.

Customers at Bank of America, Wells Fargo, U.S. Bancorp and JPMorgan did not
appear to have had any trouble reaching their accounts.

In an e-mail to customers, PNC said it had experienced "an unusually high volume
of traffic" to its site. "This volume of traffic is consistent with threatened
cyberattacks on the U.S. banking system and is designed to cause access delays
for legitimate Internet customers," the statement said.

Debra DeCourcy, a spokeswoman for Fifth Third Bank, said that from 11 a.m. to 3
p.m. on Thursday, Fifth Third also had a high volume of traffic to its site. "We
believe it was a denial of service attack designed to disrupt access to our
site," Ms. DeCourcy said. "This was an access issue, not a security issue: No
customer information or data was compromised."

In a denial of service attack, hackers bombard a site with traffic until it
collapses under the load. Though banks take great pains to absorb large volumes
of traffic, many experienced  unprecedented levels. Typically such attacks are
deployed through a Web application, in which hackers recruit volunteers to click
on a link that sends signals from their computers to a victim's site, or through
botnets, networks of infected computers and devices that do hackers' work for
them.

But security researchers who studied the attacks on banking sites last fall said
hackers had used a new weapon: data centers.

Researchers at Radware who investigated the attacks for several banks found that
the traffic was coming from data centers around the world that had been infected
with a sophisticated form of malware that was designed to evade detection by
antivirus solutions. The attackers used those infected servers to simultaneously
fire traffic at each banking site until it slowed or collapsed. By infecting
data centers instead of computers, attackers obtained the horsepower to mount an
enormous denial of service attack.

Jenny Shearer, a spokeswoman for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, declined
to comment on the source of the attacks on Friday.

In an online post, hackers said the attacks had not been sponsored by a country.

Government and intelligence officials have blamed Iran for the fall attacks and
for a destructive cyberattack on computers at Saudi Aramco in August, though
they have not presented any evidence to back up their claims. Tracing
cyberattacks back to one particular country is difficult, security experts say,
because traffic can be routed through different Internet addresses to mask their
true origin.

Security researchers still do not know how the data centers used in the first
wave of attacks were infected in the first place, how widespread the infection
rate was and - perhaps most troubling  - whether the servers could be used to
damage other sensitive targets in the future.

On Tuesday, the hackers said they had no intention of halting their campaign.
"Officials of American banks must expect our massive attacks," they wrote. "From
now on, none of the U.S. banks will be safe."


     ·    American Banks Undamaged by Cyberattacks
     ·    Online Voter Registration Is Called Vulnerable to Hackers
     ·    In Cyberattacks on Banks, Evidence of a New Weapon
     ·    I.B.M. Turns to Big Data Algorithms for Computer Security
     ·    Even Big Companies Cannot Protect Their Data


LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 5, 2013 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

American Banks' Sites Are Attacked By Hackers

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 771 words


For the last week, hackers have - once again - attacked the online banking sites
of several American banks.

The attacks appear to be the second stage of a campaign that began in September,
when a hacker group calling itself Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters took
credit for a series of attacks on the Web sites of Bank of America, Citigroup,
U.S. Bank, Wells Fargo and PNC that caused intermittent delays.

The group said it had attacked the banks in retaliation for an anti-Islam video
that mocked the Prophet Muhammad and pledged to continue its campaign until the
video was removed from the Internet. They called the campaign Operation Ababil,
a Koran reference to the swallows Allah sent to attack an army of elephants
dispatched by the King of Yemen to attack Mecca in 571 A.D.

In an online post on Tuesday, the group said that it had resumed Operation
Ababil and that, over the last several weeks, it had focused on nine banks:
JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Citigroup, Wells Fargo, U.S. Bancorp, PNC,
BB&T, Suntrust and Regions Financial.

"Our aim of this operation is removal of that insulting and absurd film," the
hackers wrote in an online post.

Of the nine banks, representatives of PNC, BB&T and Citigroup confirmed that
their online banking sites had experienced intermittent disruptions because of a
high volume of Web traffic, but they said that bank accounts and customer
information had not been affected. Though they were not mentioned in the group's
online hit list, Capital One and Fifth Third Bank also experienced brief
disruptions.

Customers at Bank of America, Wells Fargo, U.S. Bancorp and JPMorgan did not
appear to have had any trouble reaching their accounts.

In an e-mail to customers, PNC said it had experienced "an unusually high volume
of traffic" to its site. "This volume of traffic is consistent with threatened
cyberattacks on the U.S. banking system and is designed to cause access delays
for legitimate Internet customers," the statement said.

Debra DeCourcy, a spokeswoman for Fifth Third Bank, said that from 11 a.m. to 3
p.m. on Thursday, Fifth Third also had a high volume of traffic to its site. "We
believe it was a denial of service attack designed to disrupt access to our
site," Ms. DeCourcy said. "This was an access issue, not a security issue: No
customer information or data was compromised."

In a denial of service attack, hackers bombard a site with traffic until it
collapses under the load. Though banks take great pains to absorb large volumes
of traffic, many experienced unprecedented levels. Typically such attacks are
deployed through a Web application, in which hackers recruit volunteers to click
on a link that sends signals from their computers to a victim's site, or through
botnets, networks of infected computers and devices that do hackers' work for
them.

But security researchers who studied the attacks on banking sites last fall said
hackers had used a new weapon: data centers.

Researchers at Radware who investigated the attacks for several banks found that
the traffic was coming from data centers around the world that had been infected
with a sophisticated form of malware that was designed to evade detection by
antivirus solutions. The attackers used those infected servers to simultaneously
fire traffic at each banking site until it slowed or collapsed. By infecting
data centers instead of computers, attackers obtained the horsepower to mount an
enormous denial of service attack.

Jenny Shearer, a spokeswoman for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, declined
to comment on the source of the attacks on Friday.

In an online post, hackers said the attacks had not been sponsored by a country.

Government and intelligence officials have blamed Iran for the fall attacks and
for a destructive cyberattack on computers at Saudi Aramco in August, though
they have not presented any evidence to back up their claims. Tracing
cyberattacks back to one particular country is difficult, security experts say,
because traffic can be routed through different Internet addresses to mask their
true origin.

Security researchers still do not know how the data centers used in the first
wave of attacks were infected in the first place, how widespread the infection
rate was and - perhaps most troubling - whether the servers could be used to
damage other sensitive targets in the future.

On Tuesday, the hackers said they had no intention of halting their campaign.
"Officials of American banks must expect our massive attacks," they wrote. "From
now on, none of the U.S. banks will be safe."

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/01/04/u-s-banks-again-hit-by-wave-of-cyberatt
acks/

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (India Ink)

                             January 7, 2013 Monday

India's Rape and Sexual Assault Laws Under Scrutiny

BYLINE: NEHA THIRANI and ANJANI TRIVEDI

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1241 words



HIGHLIGHT: Outdated concepts like "outraging the modesty of a woman" and unclear
guidelines about punishment need to be changed, activists say.


The death of a young rape victim in from Delhi has reopened a debate in India
about the country's sexual assault and rape laws, as sweeping changes are being
demanded to improve women's rights in the country.

Compared to the much of the rest of the world, sections of India's laws covering
rape are inadequate and narrowly defined, critics say. And India's way of
delivering justice to rape victims is replete with loopholes, they say.

The debate comes as the Indian government reviews the country's laws and
punishments for sexual assault, in the wake of widespread protests and calls for
judicial action. The government has formed a panel of three legal experts,
headed by a former chief justice of India, J.S. Verma, to review possible
amendments, including those that would impose more stringent punishment. The
committee is expected to submit its report by the end of January.

India's current definition of rape is steeped in outmoded traditions, making the
possibility of a conviction unlikely in many cases, human rights activists said.
The law, which dates from 1860, has been amended only twice since then, in 1983
and 2003. "There is need for a much broader definition of rape, as is accepted
by international standards," said Meenakshi Ganguly, South Asia director of
Human Rights Watch.

Currently, section 375 of the Indian Penal Code is defined as vaginal-penile
intercourse against a woman's consent. Excluded from the law is the rape of a
woman by her husband if the woman is above 15 years of age.

"The world is changing, and because there are changes in society we need to
modify the definition of the rape law," said Monica Joshi, a law officer at the
Human Rights Law Network in New Delhi who specializes in women's cases. "The law
needs to include things like oral penetration, anal penetration, insertion of a
foreign object into a woman's body, dating rape, marital rape and deal with
direct and indirect consent."

Both Britain and most states in the United States consider marital rape a legal
offense, noted Pinky Anand, a Supreme Court lawyer who specializes in cases for
women, constitutional law and international law.

Still, there is a "progressive" part of Indian law compared to laws in some
parts of the United States and in Britain, said Mrinal Satish, an associate
professor at the National Law University in Delhi, who is completing his
doctoral dissertation at Yale Law School. In India, the prosecution is required
to prove that the defendant knew that the woman was not consenting to
intercourse and only relies on the victim's testimony, not the defendant's
belief, Mr. Satish said.

But this is also where the ambiguities arise. The court, said Mr. Satish, has to
be satisfied that the woman's testimony is reliable. Stereotyping based on
certain characteristics, like whether the victim is a virgin or married, plague
judgments in rape cases and usually have a negative impact, he said.

The current law also lacks clarity about punishments for a convicted rapist.
According to section 376 of the Indian Penal Code, the minimum sentence for a
convicted rapist is seven to 10 years, while the maximum sentence is life
imprisonment. Gang rape carries a punishment of 10 years to life imprisonment.
However, in certain situations a convicted rapist can get away with serving less
time.

"The law allows the judge discretion to award a lesser punishment in special
cases such as an aged person or a person of unsound mind," says Ujjwal Nikam, a
special public prosecutor for the government of Maharashtra whose expertise is
in criminal law.

Sentencing guidelines for judges in India are nonexistent, which could lead to
lenient sentences in rape cases, critics say.

"Unlike some other countries, such as the United States and England, India does
not have sentencing guidelines, which provide rules and principles for judges to
follow while sentencing," said Mr. Satish. This contributes to the "rampant
disparity" in punishments for rape cases, he said.

Legal experts in India are debating increasing the maximum punishment for rape
in India, which could include the death penalty.

Some activists and advocates believe that an enhancement in the punishment will
create a greater deterrent against rape. "The principle problem with rape laws
in the country is that they don't seem to be serving enough of a deterrent to
criminals," said Ms. Anand. "The rate of rape is horrifying, and the conviction
rate is unsatisfactory. Capital punishment is the only answer."

However, activists warn of the dangers of imposing the death penalty in rape
cases, citing the increased chances that rapists would attempt to kill their
victims, among other risks.

Another punishment being considered is chemical castration, the administration
of medication designed to decrease libido and sexual activity, which is used on
sex offenders in South Korea, Russia and Israel. In the United States, chemical
castration is used in California, Florida and Louisiana.

Several legal experts argue there is also need to review the sexual assault law
in India. Under section 354 of the Indian Penal Code, sexual assault is
described as "outraging the modesty of a woman" - a description considered
archaic, subjective and limited by legal experts. "We need to increase the ambit
of sexual assault to include harassment, verbal abuse, groping, acid attacks,
stalking and cyber crime," said Ms. Anand.

Punishment for sexual assault should also be increased, activists said.
Currently sexual assault crimes carry a maximum punishment of two years, but
most convicted criminals can walk away by paying a small fee. "Criminals who
repeatedly commit sexual assault if not convicted will then progress to higher
crimes like rape," said Ms. Anand.

A sexual assault bill currently pending in Parliament introduces some of these
measures by increasing the punishment for molestation from two years to five
years in prison, and sexual harassment from one year to three years.

The law itself is not the only problem. "When it comes to the problems - they
lie in the system and how the legal system deals with rape cases," Mr. Satish
said. It's important that the evidence is built. And if that's weak, then the
court is left with evidence on the bases it cannot convict."

A draft bill has been submitted to the panel by the ruling Congress Party
suggests chemical castration of rapists in rare cases, longer sentences for rape
and setting up fast-track courts.

The bill should be named after the Delhi gang rape victim, Shashi Tharoor, the
Indian minister of state for human resource development, said on Twitter on Jan.
1. The thought struck a chord with the victim's parents, according to local
media reports. (The woman's name has only been reported so far by a British
newspaper, which said it had the father's permission. Reports Monday said his
permission had not been given.)

Lawyers and activists are hopeful that the national attention garnered by this
particular rape will spur the government to action. "Gender issues have not been
given primacy up until now, but this time around civil society has raised enough
of a voice that it cannot be ignored," said Ms. Anand.


     ·    Women Strip and Beat Politician Accused of Rape in Northeast India
     ·    At Delhi Protest Ground, Talk of Causes Behind Violence Against Women
     ·    Are Delhi's Buses Safe For Women?
     ·    In Haryana, Hundreds Protest State's Response to Rape
     ·    Lawmakers in India Charged With Crimes Could Face Speedier Trials


LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (India Ink)

                             January 7, 2013 Monday

India's Rape and Sexual Assault Laws Under Scrutiny

BYLINE: NEHA THIRANI and ANJANI TRIVEDI

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1241 words



HIGHLIGHT: Outdated concepts like "outraging the modesty of a woman" and unclear
guidelines about punishment need to be changed, activists say.


The death of a young rape victim in from Delhi has reopened a debate in India
about the country's sexual assault and rape laws, as sweeping changes are being
demanded to improve women's rights in the country.

Compared to the much of the rest of the world, sections of India's laws covering
rape are inadequate and narrowly defined, critics say. And India's way of
delivering justice to rape victims is replete with loopholes, they say.

The debate comes as the Indian government reviews the country's laws and
punishments for sexual assault, in the wake of widespread protests and calls for
judicial action. The government has formed a panel of three legal experts,
headed by a former chief justice of India, J.S. Verma, to review possible
amendments, including those that would impose more stringent punishment. The
committee is expected to submit its report by the end of January.

India's current definition of rape is steeped in outmoded traditions, making the
possibility of a conviction unlikely in many cases, human rights activists said.
The law, which dates from 1860, has been amended only twice since then, in 1983
and 2003. "There is need for a much broader definition of rape, as is accepted
by international standards," said Meenakshi Ganguly, South Asia director of
Human Rights Watch.

Currently, section 375 of the Indian Penal Code is defined as vaginal-penile
intercourse against a woman's consent. Excluded from the law is the rape of a
woman by her husband if the woman is above 15 years of age.

"The world is changing, and because there are changes in society we need to
modify the definition of the rape law," said Monica Joshi, a law officer at the
Human Rights Law Network in New Delhi who specializes in women's cases. "The law
needs to include things like oral penetration, anal penetration, insertion of a
foreign object into a woman's body, dating rape, marital rape and deal with
direct and indirect consent."

Both Britain and most states in the United States consider marital rape a legal
offense, noted Pinky Anand, a Supreme Court lawyer who specializes in cases for
women, constitutional law and international law.

Still, there is a "progressive" part of Indian law compared to laws in some
parts of the United States and in Britain, said Mrinal Satish, an associate
professor at the National Law University in Delhi, who is completing his
doctoral dissertation at Yale Law School. In India, the prosecution is required
to prove that the defendant knew that the woman was not consenting to
intercourse and only relies on the victim's testimony, not the defendant's
belief, Mr. Satish said.

But this is also where the ambiguities arise. The court, said Mr. Satish, has to
be satisfied that the woman's testimony is reliable. Stereotyping based on
certain characteristics, like whether the victim is a virgin or married, plague
judgments in rape cases and usually have a negative impact, he said.

The current law also lacks clarity about punishments for a convicted rapist.
According to section 376 of the Indian Penal Code, the minimum sentence for a
convicted rapist is seven to 10 years, while the maximum sentence is life
imprisonment. Gang rape carries a punishment of 10 years to life imprisonment.
However, in certain situations a convicted rapist can get away with serving less
time.

"The law allows the judge discretion to award a lesser punishment in special
cases such as an aged person or a person of unsound mind," says Ujjwal Nikam, a
special public prosecutor for the government of Maharashtra whose expertise is
in criminal law.

Sentencing guidelines for judges in India are nonexistent, which could lead to
lenient sentences in rape cases, critics say.

"Unlike some other countries, such as the United States and England, India does
not have sentencing guidelines, which provide rules and principles for judges to
follow while sentencing," said Mr. Satish. This contributes to the "rampant
disparity" in punishments for rape cases, he said.

Legal experts in India are debating increasing the maximum punishment for rape
in India, which could include the death penalty.

Some activists and advocates believe that an enhancement in the punishment will
create a greater deterrent against rape. "The principle problem with rape laws
in the country is that they don't seem to be serving enough of a deterrent to
criminals," said Ms. Anand. "The rate of rape is horrifying, and the conviction
rate is unsatisfactory. Capital punishment is the only answer."

However, activists warn of the dangers of imposing the death penalty in rape
cases, citing the increased chances that rapists would attempt to kill their
victims, among other risks.

Another punishment being considered is chemical castration, the administration
of medication designed to decrease libido and sexual activity, which is used on
sex offenders in South Korea, Russia and Israel. In the United States, chemical
castration is used in California, Florida and Louisiana.

Several legal experts argue there is also need to review the sexual assault law
in India. Under section 354 of the Indian Penal Code, sexual assault is
described as "outraging the modesty of a woman" - a description considered
archaic, subjective and limited by legal experts. "We need to increase the ambit
of sexual assault to include harassment, verbal abuse, groping, acid attacks,
stalking and cyber crime," said Ms. Anand.

Punishment for sexual assault should also be increased, activists said.
Currently sexual assault crimes carry a maximum punishment of two years, but
most convicted criminals can walk away by paying a small fee. "Criminals who
repeatedly commit sexual assault if not convicted will then progress to higher
crimes like rape," said Ms. Anand.

A sexual assault bill currently pending in Parliament introduces some of these
measures by increasing the punishment for molestation from two years to five
years in prison, and sexual harassment from one year to three years.

The law itself is not the only problem. "When it comes to the problems - they
lie in the system and how the legal system deals with rape cases," Mr. Satish
said. It's important that the evidence is built. And if that's weak, then the
court is left with evidence on the bases it cannot convict."

A draft bill has been submitted to the panel by the ruling Congress Party
suggests chemical castration of rapists in rare cases, longer sentences for rape
and setting up fast-track courts.
The bill should be named after the Delhi gang rape victim, Shashi Tharoor, the
Indian minister of state for human resource development, said on Twitter on Jan.
1. The thought struck a chord with the victim's parents, according to local
media reports. (The woman's name has only been reported so far by a British
newspaper, which said it had the father's permission. Reports Monday said his
permission had not been given.)

Lawyers and activists are hopeful that the national attention garnered by this
particular rape will spur the government to action. "Gender issues have not been
given primacy up until now, but this time around civil society has raised enough
of a voice that it cannot be ignored," said Ms. Anand.


     ·    Women Strip and Beat Politician Accused of Rape in Northeast India
     ·    At Delhi Protest Ground, Talk of Causes Behind Violence Against Women
     ·    Are Delhi's Buses Safe For Women?
     ·    In Haryana, Hundreds Protest State's Response to Rape
     ·    Lawmakers in India Charged With Crimes Could Face Speedier Trials


LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                    (Bucks)

                             January 7, 2013 Monday

Monday Reading: Drowsy Drivers Pose Major Risks

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 168 words



HIGHLIGHT: Drowsy drivers pose major risks, health insurers raise some premiums
by double digits, plenty of room on Maine's ski slopes and other
consumer-focused news from The New York Times.



     ·    Some health insurers raise premiums by double digits. (Business)
     ·    Surprise, surprise: Banks win again. (Business)
     ·    Fixing Social Security. (Sunday Review)
     ·    Plenty of room on Maine's ski slopes. (Travel)
     ·    Using a new address as relocation therapy. (Real Estate)
     ·    How to write a mortgage hardship letter. (Real Estate)
     ·    Tires that you don't need to refill. (Automobiles)
     ·    F.D.A. offers new rules to stop food contamination. (Business)
     ·    Re-thinking the classroom chair. (National)
     ·    Banks again hit by wave of cyber-attacks. (Business)
     ·    Drowsy drivers pose major risks. (Well)
     ·    How much parental business travel is too much? (Motherlode)
     ·    Big online coursespopular but not yet profitable. (National)
     ·    Advocacy group grades 12 states "F" on policies. (National)
     ·    New Disney bracelet aims to build loyalty. (Business)
     ·    "Smart" gunscan't kill in the wrong hands. (Bits)
     ·    Women's unemployment surpasses men's. (Economix)
     ·    G.M. recalls vehicles for roll-awaydanger. (Wheels)
     ·    What we know about climate change: A guide. (Green)
     ·    A vegan resolution. (Well)



LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                             January 7, 2013 Monday

How Much Are Americans Willing to Spend to Defend Europe?

BYLINE: JUDY DEMPSEY

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 515 words



HIGHLIGHT: Given Washington's "pivot" toward Asia, you would think Europe would
be doing more to provide for its own military defense. You would be wrong.


BERLIN - At the end of this month, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the NATO secretary
general, will release new figures on defense spending by the 28 Alliance
members.

They will almost certainly show a decline for most countries. The global
financial crisis, followed by the euro crisis, has put immense pressure on
finance ministries to cut budgets, including, in most places, defense budgets.

It is interesting to note that Greece, of all European countries, has maintained
a fairly high level of spending. Given the shape of the Greek economy, that
creates problems of its own which I discuss in my latest Letter from Europe.

Mr. Rasmussen has repeatedly asked Alliance members to invest in defense to deal
with new threats, such as cyber and energy security. He also fears that the
technological gap between Europe and the United States will widen so much that
'interoperability,' the ability to operate together on missions, will be
endangered.

The United States spends 31 percent of its defense budget on investment. The
Europeans spend 22 percent, according to Claude-France Arnould, the chief
executive of the E.U.'s European Defence Agency, which was established over a
decade ago to promote defense cooperation.

There are few signs that Europeans are willing to invest more. Indeed, defense
spending among E.U. member states was at a record low, Ms. Arnould said during a
security conference in Berlin last November.

Both NATO and the E.U. believe there is one way to try bridge this gap: through
smart defense or "pooling and sharing."

In practice, it would mean NATO and E.U. members, the majority of whom belong to
each other's organization, cooperating much more on defense, instead of - for
example - duplicating expensive equipment.

Ms. Arnould has warned E.U. countries not to use pooling and sharing as an
excuse to invest even less. "Pooling and sharing offers a way to acquire
together what is out of reach individually and get more efficiency in the
deployment of these capabilities," she said. "We see that Europe risks losing
significant industrial capability between now and 2020."

Yet, for all the cajoling by NATO, the E.U. and Pentagon officials, little has
changed.

European governments still believe that defense policy and defense spending are
intrinsic elements of national sovereignty.

And while governments will agree to participate in small collaborative projects,
such as the European Defense Agency's helicopter training program, they shy away
from anything big enough to really improve Europe's military technology sector
or its security.

What a foolhardy attitude to have, say analysts, considering that
the Obama administration's security agenda is focusing increasingly on Asia.
Surely, analysts add, this should be the time for Europe to take on more
responsibility for its own security.


     ·    U.S. Spends Too Much, Taxes Too Little. Neither Candidate Has Offered
          a Real Solution
     ·    The Eurozone, Seen from 6,000 Miles Away
     ·    Seen From China: Fiscal Cliff Shows Democracy's Weakness
     ·    Is America Still the Land of Opportunity?
     ·    European Union Plans to Accentuate the Positive in 2013


LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 9, 2013 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bank Hacks Were Work Of Iranians, Officials Say

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH and QUENTIN HARDY

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1124 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- The attackers hit one American bank after the next. As in so
many previous attacks, dozens of online banking sites slowed, hiccupped or
ground to a halt before recovering several minutes later.

But there was something disturbingly different about the wave of online attacks
on American banks in recent weeks. Security researchers say that instead of
exploiting individual computers, the attackers engineered networks of computers
in data centers, transforming the online equivalent of a few yapping Chihuahuas
into a pack of fire-breathing Godzillas.

The skill required to carry out attacks on this scale has convinced United
States government officials and security researchers that they are the work of
Iran, most likely in retaliation for economic sanctions and online attacks by
the United States.

''There is no doubt within the U.S. government that Iran is behind these
attacks,'' said James A. Lewis, a former official in the State and Commerce
Departments and a computer security expert at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington.

Mr. Lewis said the amount of traffic flooding American banking sites was
''multiple times'' the amount that Russia directed at Estonia in a monthlong
online assault in 2007 that nearly crippled the Baltic nation.

American officials have not offered any technical evidence to back up their
claims, but computer security experts say the recent attacks showed a level of
sophistication far beyond that of amateur hackers. Also, the hackers chose to
pursue disruption, not money: another earmark of state-sponsored attacks, the
experts said.

''The scale, the scope and the effectiveness of these attacks have been
unprecedented,'' said Carl Herberger, vice president of security solutions at
Radware, a security firm that has been investigating the attacks on behalf of
banks and cloud service providers. ''There have never been this many financial
institutions under this much duress.''

Since September, intruders have caused major disruptions to the online banking
sites of Bank of America, Citigroup, Wells Fargo, U.S. Bancorp, PNC, Capital
One, Fifth Third Bank, BB&T and HSBC.

They employed DDoS attacks, or distributed denial of service attacks, named
because hackers deny customers service by directing large volumes of traffic to
a site until it collapses. No bank accounts were breached and no customers'
money was taken.

By using data centers, the attackers are simply keeping up with the times.
Companies and consumers are increasingly conducting their business over
large-scale ''clouds'' of hundreds, even thousands, of networked computer
servers.

These clouds are run by Amazon and Google, but also by many smaller players who
commonly rent them to other companies. It appears the hackers remotely hijacked
some of these clouds and used the computing power to take down American banking
sites.

''There's a sense now that attackers are crafting their own private clouds,''
either by creating networks of individual machines or by stealing resources
wholesale from poorly maintained corporate clouds, said John Kindervag, an
analyst at Forrester Research.

How, exactly, attackers are hijacking data centers is still a mystery. Making
matters more complex, they have simultaneously introduced another weapon:
encrypted DDoS attacks.

Banks encrypt customers' online transactions for security, but the encryption
process consumes system resources. By flooding banking sites with encryption
requests, attackers can further slow or cripple sites with fewer requests.

A hacker group calling itself Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters has claimed in
online posts that it was responsible for the attacks.

The group said it attacked the banks in retaliation for an anti-Islam video that
mocked the Prophet Muhammad, and pledged to continue its campaign until the
video was scrubbed from the Internet. It called the campaign Operation Ababil, a
reference to a story in the Koran in which Allah sends swallows to defeat an
army of elephants dispatched by the king of Yemen to attack Mecca in A.D. 571.

But American intelligence officials say the group is actually a cover for Iran.
They claim Iran is waging the attacks in retaliation for Western economic
sanctions and for a series of cyberattacks on its own systems. In the last three
years, three sophisticated computer viruses -- called Flame, Duqu and Stuxnet --
have hit computers in Iran. The New York Times reported last year that the
United States, together with Israel, was responsible for Stuxnet, the virus used
to destroy centrifuges in an Iranian nuclear facility in 2010.

''It's a bit of a grudge match,'' said Mr. Lewis of the Center for Strategic and
International Studies.

Researchers at Radware who investigated the attacks for several banks found that
the traffic was coming from data centers around the world. They discovered that
various cloud services and public Web hosting services had been infected with a
particularly sophisticated form of malware, called Itsoknoproblembro, that was
designed to evade detection by antivirus programs. The malware has existed for
years, but the banking attacks were the first time it used data centers to
attack external victims.

Botnets, or networks of individual infected slave computers, can typically be
traced back to a command and control center, but security experts say
Itsoknoproblembro was engineered to make it very difficult to tie it to one
party. Security researchers have come up with a new name for servers infected
with Itsoknoproblembro: they call them ''bRobots.''

In an amateur botnet, the command and control center can be easily identified,
but Mr. Herberger said it had been nearly impossible to do so in this case,
suggesting to him that ''the campaign may be state-sponsored versus amateur
malware.''

Attackers used the infected servers to fire traffic simultaneously at each
banking site until it slowed or collapsed.

By infecting data centers instead of computers, the hackers obtained the
computing power to mount enormous denial of service attacks. One of the banks
had 40 gigabits of Internet capacity, Mr. Herberger said, a huge amount when you
consider that a midsize business may only have one gigabit. But some banks were
hit with a sustained flood of traffic that peaked at 70 gigabits.

Mr. Herberger declined to say which cloud service providers had been
compromised, citing nondisclosure agreements with Radware's clients, but he said
that each new bank attack provided evidence that more data centers had been
infected and exploited.

The attackers said last week that they had no intention of halting their
campaign. ''Officials of American banks must expect our massive attacks,'' they
wrote. ''From now on, none of the U.S. banks will be safe.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/09/technology/online-banking-attacks-were-work-of
-iran-us-officials-say.html

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                    (Green)

                           January 10, 2013 Thursday

Cyberstalkers Threaten Pipeline Security

BYLINE: DYLAN WALSH

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 825 words



HIGHLIGHT: In fiscal 2012, the energy sector was the target of around 40 percent
of cybersecurity threats to the nation's infrastructure.


In a recent  annual review, a team at the Department of Homeland Security that
works to counter  the threat of  attacks  on critical computer infrastructure
counted 198 incidents in fiscal 2012. The events reported ranged from the use of
malware to sabotage systems to phishing attacks for retrieving  sensitive
information. In roughly 40 percent of those cases, the target was the energy
sector - "an alarming rate," the report said.

Last year the Obama administration championed passage of a  Cybersecurity Act,
which would have helped companies that operate critical infrastructure to
improve the security of their computer systems and share information about
attacks on their networks with the federal government.  But Senate Republicans
succeeded in fending off the bill last August, arguing that it would have
imposed a financial burden on companies.

In November, a White House draft executive order  picked up the baton by calling
for concerted agency action on the issue.

The order describes the attacks on critical infrastructure, which have risen
exponentially over the last five years, as "one of the most serious national
security challenges we must confront." Last year, for example, the natural gas
industry fought off a lengthy and ultimately unsuccessful series of attacks on
its pipeline infrastructure, with the Department of Homeland Security issuing
three amber alerts, the second-highest level of warning.

The Transportation Security Administration wields authority over pipeline
security but has yet to promulgate industry-wide standards for computer
security, relying instead on the voluntary adoption of best practices.

Pipeline vulnerability is a particular concern because of the ubiquity of
supervisory control and data acquisition, or Scada, software systems, which are
used to monitor variables like pressure and flow rates. Pipeline operators can
respond to any unexpected changes through remote management of valves, pumps and
compressor stations.

But, like any software, Scada systems are susceptible to hacking and viruses.
The Stuxnet computer worm, designed jointly by the United States and Israel to
attack Iran's main nuclear enrichment facility in 2008, is a prime example of
how such attacks can disrupt and destroy physical infrastructure. In the case of
pipelines, the attacks could come in the form of unauthorized commands or false
reports to operators, resulting in spills, fires or explosions.

Investigators have so far not linked any historical pipeline problems to
malicious  activity, but software malfunctions have illustrated the potential
threat.

In the summer of 2010, problems in a Scada control center contributed to the
spill of more than one million gallons of crude oil outside the small town of
Marshall, Mich. Coursing through local waterways, the oil made its way into the
Kalamazoo River and now ranks as one of the largest inland spills in the
nation's history.

Debate over  security regulation remains fiercely split along party lines, with
Senate Republicans casting  40 of the 46 nay votes against last year's
Cybersecurity Act. A recent letter from Congressional Republicans to the
president attacked his draft order as a "backdoor regulatory framework."

One of the central concerns of those who oppose cyber security standards is that
the  threats morph  too quickly for notoriously slow bureaucrats to keep up
with.

In Canada, however, the National Energy Board published regulatory standards for
pipelines in 2010 after a three-year rule-making process that drew heavily on
industry expertise. The regulation was motivated by security assessments in 2004
and 2005 that exposed a  security vacuum  at companies across the country.

"Industry had input all through development of the standard," said Wes Elliott,
technical leader for security at the National Energy Board. "It proved a
commonsense approach that has worked well for us."

All Canadian pipeline operators must now devise management plans to meet certain
performance standards. Field visits by personnel from the National Energy Board
are used to confirm that the management plans are put into action.

Regardless of the prospects for federal computer security regulation,  pipeline
managers in the United States face severe resource constraints: the equivalent
of only 13 full-time employees in the Transportation Security Administration are
responsible for overseeing nearly 1.5 million miles of pipeline.

In a letter last year to Senate majority and minority leaders, security experts

 including  former directors of the National Security Agency and Department of
Homeland Security warned of  the imminent danger of a "cyber 9/11."

"It is not a question of 'whether' this will happen," they wrote. "It is a
question of 'when.' "


     ·    America's Greenest Presidents
     ·    For Obama, Peer Pressure from Nobel Laureates
     ·    White House Promises Veto of Anti-E.P.A. Bill
     ·    One Last Energy Fact From the Presidential Debate
     ·    For a Shell Executive, Much Head-Scratching


LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 11, 2013 Friday
                        The International Herald Tribune

Oasis of Calm Is Put Back Together, Piece by Piece

BYLINE: By LAURA LATHAM

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1193 words


PORT LOUIS, MAURITIUS -- When a Mauritian businessman heard a couple of years
ago that a historic plantation house in the island's capital of Port Louis was
on the market, he seized the opportunity to save a piece of local heritage.

The home, called Avenport House, was built in 1853 for the French sugar cane
magnate Georges Thomy-Thiéry. The eight-room mansion, which has four bedrooms,
two bathrooms and a large vaulted attic, was designed as a traditional colonial
French plantation house. It has elegant covered balconies, an extensive private
courtyard and stands amid lush gardens on Saint Georges Street, once one of the
city's grandest avenues.

After Thomy-Thiéry returned to France in the 1870s, the house had three owners
before being sold to the local businessman, who bought the property for an
undisclosed price.

Few of the island's historic homes are still standing and even fewer are in good
condition as they were built mainly of wood. Time and the Mauritian weather,
with its heavy rains and cyclones, take their toll, and maintenance is
expensive.

Development also has had an impact on Port Louis's heritage. The chaotic,
crowded capital has a busy industrial harbor and is a haphazard mix of
ramshackle low-rise dwellings, shops and street markets, punctuated with
Victorian-era government properties and newer high rises. These house the
offices of banks and finance companies that, along with information technology,
manufacturing and tourism, form the basis for the economy on this Indian Ocean
island, which measures 2,040 square kilometers, or 788 square miles.

Behind its large iron gates, Avenport House is an oasis of calm elegance. The
façade and entrance porch, with original decorative tiled floor, pretty portico
and ironwork balconies painted white, show no sign that the house was
dilapidated before its recent renovation.

''It was in a very sad state and needed a lot of work to make it habitable
again,'' said Ilinka Lukic of Haka Designs, an interiors company in London that
helped complete the renovations and décor. ''But the owner wanted the house to
be regenerated in exactly the same style it was built in.''

The exterior walls of teak boards and stone were renovated, replastered and
painted white. The original shutters were restored and painted blue, like the
original color scheme. The roof, which was replaced, is in the traditional
French toile style, with tiles made from teak.

Local artisans used traditional methods for the repairs, which often required a
lot of handwork. ''We rubbed down and repainted the ironwork, and the teak
floorboards, which are over three meters long, were professionally treated and
retained where possible or replaced where necessary,'' Ms. Lukic said.

All the original window frames, internal doors, ceiling beams and any surviving
wall moldings also were refurbished. At the time of purchase, much of the
interior woodwork was rotten and, in places, infested with termites.

The central staircase is solid teak, with the patina acquired over 150 years,
although the original banister was replaced in the 20th century. ''The banister
is not authentic, but the owner wanted us to leave everything as it was, to show
how the house had evolved,'' Ms. Lukic said. ''I wasn't allowed to replace some
of the inauthentic window catches or doorknobs, so you have some from the 1800s,
others from the 1950s or later.''

Most of the rooms have been decorated with 19th-century antiques and
chandeliers, though the top-floor landing and two rooms on that level are used
as gallery space for the owner's collection of 20th-century and contemporary
art. As a result, these areas have a modern look, with inset spotlights and
bespoke teak furniture that was made by local crafts people.

Bringing the house's utilities up to date was the biggest headache. ''It was
difficult to incorporate modern technology, air conditioning, wiring and
plumbing into such a historic building,'' said Gerald Pedaloo, the project's
manager. ''The owner wanted the work to be completely hidden within the fabric
of the property. So we had to lift floorboards and lower ceilings.''

When it comes to the island's real estate market, there is little demand for
heritage buildings, said Souben Vyravene, owner of Souben Properties, a local
real estate agency. ''Most historic properties were situated in prime positions
and the high market value of the land on which they were located means many have
been demolished to make way for new construction,'' Mr. Vyravene said.

Mr. Vyravene said that the island is attracting overseas and local investment,
creating a development boom that has lifted real estate prices. ''Even in areas
that, 10 years ago, had little value, prices are now relatively high,'' he said.

Society on Mauritius also is changing, with more young people among its 1.3
million residents choosing to buy their own places, rather than remaining with
their parents into adulthood, as is the local tradition. Locals tend to settle
around tourism hot spots, like Grand Baie, or the employment centers of Ebene
and Quatre Bornes, near the technology hub Cyber City.

The price of resales in the local market start from around 3 million Mauritian
rupees, or nearly $98,000, for a two-bedroom apartment and from around 15
million rupees for a three- to four-bedroom villa, depending on location.

However, Chris Immelman, sales agent with the property agency Pam Golding, said
coastal property in the local market was beginning to keep pace with residences
aimed at the international market. For example, he said, a two-bedroom apartment
in a nice block, near the beach, now would sell for around 9.28 million rupees.

Mauritius particularly appeals to buyers from South Africa, Britain and France,
though Southeast Asia, the Middle East and India are also represented, agents
say. And interest has risen in recent years, since ownership regulations were
relaxed for non-nationals.

Since 2002, the government has allowed non-nationals to buy residences through
the Integrated Resort Scheme, which permits freehold purchase of property priced
from 15.46 million rupees in a residential resort with leisure facilities. It
also entitles the owner to residence and tax benefits, including a 15 percent
personal and corporate income tax and no inheritance taxes.

In 2008, the country's Real Estate Scheme began allowing the purchase of less
expensive properties by non-nationals but without residence status. (Prospective
buyers must ensure that properties are licensed under one of these initiatives
or sales will be illegal.)

''The majority of our investors are entrepreneurs; we also have financiers,''
said Anton De Waal, chief executive of the luxury golf resort Villas Valriche in
Bel Ombre. ''Most use their properties for three to four months of the year, but
we do have some permanent residents.''

Villas Valriche is offering two- to four-bedroom freestanding homes with pools
from $680,000 to $4 million, through the international agency Cluttons Resorts.

''Mauritius is positioning itself as a key location to own a second home and do
business,'' Mr. De Waal said. ''There is a lot of confidence about its long-term
prospects.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/11/greathomesanddestinations/11iht-remauritius11.
html

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 11, 2013 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

In Transition, Hagel Gets Up to Speed on Iran

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 854 words


WASHINGTON - Chuck Hagel, President Obama's nominee for secretary of defense, is
perceived to have an Iran problem. And this week he has started to deal with it.

Over the course of a dozen years as a senator from Nebraska, Mr. Hagel voted
against unilateral economic sanctions against Iran, and had warned, sensibly to
many in the Obama administration, that ''you cannot push the Iranians into a
corner where they can't get out.''

His role in the Obama administration's strategy of coercive diplomacy with Iran,
however, will be to convince Tehran that there is no getting out of the corner
-- no chance they can seal off the Strait of Hormuz or threaten Israel or Saudi
Arabia.

Officials made it clear on Thursday that Mr. Hagel was sounding more hawkish on
Iran after four days of meetings at the Pentagon, which were intended to bring
him up to speed. Whether that shift is based in a change of view, an effort to
get in sync with administration policy or an intention to pre-empt questions in
the Senate was not certain.

But one senior administration official familiar with the transition effort said
that Mr. Hagel ''believes that his public record -- found in his statements and
his writings -- has been mischaracterized.''

''Senator Hagel believes in engagement, but he is not soft on Iran,'' the
official added, after Mr. Hagel had met with the current defense secretary, Leon
E. Panetta, who has had his own challenges staying on the administration's
message on Iran.

In a transition office inside the Pentagon, where he can receive classified
briefings, Mr. Hagel has also met with the deputy secretary, Ashton B. Carter, a
former Harvard professor who officials say has indicated he is willing to remain
in place, and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey,
along with several other senior military officers and civilian policy officials.
None of these officials are strangers to Mr. Hagel; in Mr. Obama's first term,
he served on Mr. Panetta's Defense Policy Board and was co-chairman of the
president's Intelligence Advisory Board.

Like other nominees, Mr. Hagel is not speaking in public pending his
confirmation hearing. But officials said Mr. Hagel has also been using the days
since his nomination to telephone Congressional leaders of both parties in
advance of the hearing, expected shortly after Mr. Obama's inaugration. The
officials said Iran has been a topic of some of those conversations.

''I've known Chuck Hagel for a long time,'' Mr. Panetta said during a Pentagon
news conference on Thursday. ''I think a lot of the criticisms that are being
made right now are unfair.'' He said, ''In these confirmation battles, there are
a lot of charges that'll be out there. There'll be a lot of criticism that are
out there. But ultimately, the truth prevails. And I think the truth in this
case will mean that he'll be confirmed.''

The confirmation battle is likely to focus as well on Mr. Hagel's comments on
Israel -- where he has at times questioned whether the Israeli government is
acting in the country's own long-term self-interest.

On Iran, before his nomination, Mr. Hagel often sounded like Mr. Obama in 2008
and early 2009, when the administration argued for ''engagement'' with a country
that the United States had barely communicated with in three decades.

''The United States should open a new strategic direction in U.S.-Iran relations
by seeking direct, comprehensive and unconditional talks with the government of
Iran, including opening a U.S. Interest Section in Tehran,'' he said at the
Brookings Institution in 2008, in a speech that gave Mr. Obama's own statements
some Republican cover. ''We must avoid backing ourselves into a military
conflict with Iran. That need not happen, but it can be a self-fulfilling
prophecy.''

Mr. Obama still talks of engagement, but he has focused more on pressure. The
economic sanctions now in place against Iran are far tougher than any during the
Bush administration, and they include the kind of unilateral sanctions --
barring banks and companies that do business with Iran from also doing business
in the United States -- that Mr. Hagel once opposed. There is covert pressure,
most notably the cyber campaign against the country, code-named Olympic Games,'
that went on for years.

In his confirmation hearing, Mr. Hagel will almost certainly use the much-worn
phrase that ''all options are on the table,'' a line he included in an op-ed in
The Washington Post in September. That is a way of conveying a willingness to
use military force.

But he has also written that Iran needs to be presented with a grand bargain to
solve the nuclear standoff. ''Let them think about the substantial carrots of
improved relations, not just the sticks, and there may be a deal to be had,'' he
wrote in a 2008 book, as he was preparing to leave the Senate.

Quietly, the administration is debating how many of those carrots to put on the
table. But to make them work, Mr. Hagel may be given the job of convincing the
Iranians that despite his familiar views that a military strike could prove
disastrous, he is willing to conduct one if diplomacy fails.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/11/us/in-transition-to-defense-post-hagel-focuses
-on-iran.html

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            January 11, 2013 Friday

Wells Fargo Kicks Off Bank Earnings

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1911 words



HIGHLIGHT: Wells Fargo announces earnings Thursday morning, amid signs that the
housing market may be beginning a recovery. | The settlement this week with 10
big banks ends a foreclosure review process that was deeply flawed. | The models
regulators use to assess risk may be useful during normal times, but not when
they matter the most, a federal agency said. | Herbalife sought on Thursday to
counter accusations that the company was a fraud, but investors were still
making up their minds.


WELLS FARGO KICKS OFF BANK EARNINGS  |  Investors are gearing up for the latest
round of bank earnings reports, after a sluggish year for Wall Street. Wells
Fargo announces results at 8 a.m. with a conference call set for 10 a.m.
Analysts are expecting fourth-quarter earnings of 89 cents a share, an
improvement over the period a year earlier, amid signs that the housing market
may be beginning a recovery. Still, Wells Fargo's net interest margin, the
difference between what the bank charges borrowers and pays depositors, has
fallen in recent quarters.

Up next are JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs on Wednesday, with Bank of America,
Citigroup and Morgan Stanley coming on Thursday. Banks put a number of legal
battles behind them in the past year. This week's $8.5 billion settlement over
claims of foreclosures abuses is expected to show up in fourth-quarter results.

FLAWED FORECLOSURE REVIEW ENDS; LENDERS WIN WIGGLE ROOM  |  The settlement this
week with 10 big banks is "actually a way to quietly paper over a deeply flawed
review of foreclosed loans across America," The New York Times's Jessica
Silver-Greenberg reports. "To avoid criticism as the review stalled and
consultants collected more than $1 billion in fees, the regulators, led by the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, abandoned the effort after examining
a sliver of nearly four million loans in foreclosure," according to current and
former regulators and consultants.

"The examination was plagued by problems from its start in November 2011," Ms.
Silver-Greenberg reports. "Several former employees of a consulting firm doing
reviews said that their managers showed bias toward the bank that hired them.
Other reviewers said that the test questions used to evaluate each loan were
indecipherable and in some cases the process failed to catch serious harm. Many
borrowers said they had never heard of the review or were so baffled by the
process that they gave up or dismissed it as just another empty promise."

New rules for mortgage lending were introduced on Thursday by the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, which "made a few concessions to banks that
consumers advocates say could leave borrowers vulnerable," DealBook's Peter
Eavis writes. "Citing the 'fragile state' of the housing market, the bureau said
it would allow new mortgages to meet more flexible standards for affordability
during a phase-in period of up to seven years."

The concession affects a new product called the qualified mortgage, which will
have to be more affordable for borrowers. "But the phase-in period will
effectively allow banks to make qualified loans with higher debt burdens for up
to seven years if the loans conform to standards set by government mortgage
entities like Fannie Mae or the Federal Housing Administration. Such entities
have reasonably high standards, but it is a loophole that banks could exploit."

FOR PREDICTING THE NEXT CRISIS, CRYSTAL BALL IS CLOUDY  |  The models regulators
use to assess risk may be useful during normal times, but not when they matter
the most, according to a new assessment from a little-known federal agency, the
Office of Financial Research. Arguing that the models need to be fundamentally
changed, the agency says conventional ways to measure risk fail to take
interactions and feedback effects into account. "A crisis comes from the
unleashing of a dynamic that is not reflected in the day-to-day variations of
precrisis time," Richard Bookstaber, a research principal at the agency, wrote.

"Any benefits from such research is at least a few years away, however, and for
now bank regulators are placing renewed emphasis on stress tests," The New York
Times columnist Floyd Norris writes. "Does the Fed have enough information to
really know how the banks would fare if a new recession arrived? If Mr.
Bookstaber is right, the answer may be that it does not."

ON THE AGENDA  |  Timothy J. Sloan, Wells Fargo's chief financial officer, is on
Bloomberg TV at 4 p.m. Jeff Rosenberg, BlackRock's chief investment strategist
for fixed income, is on CNBC at 1 p.m. Data on the international trade deficit
for November is out at 8:30 a.m.

HERBALIFE FIGHTS BACK  |  Herbalife sought on Thursday to counter accusations
that the company was a fraud, with a two-and-a-half-hour presentation responding
to criticism by the hedge fund manager William A. Ackman. But it appeared that
investors were still making up their minds on the company's rebuttal. After
climbing as high as 7.6 percent in the morning, shares of Herbalife, a
nutritional supplement company, declined 1.8 percent, to close at $39.24.

Herbalife is a "legitimate company, with legitimate customers," Michael O.
Johnson, its chief executive, said. "Girl Scouts sell cookies on a
direct-selling method, and nobody attacks them." Mr. Ackman was not swayed by
Herbalife's defense, saying, "The company distorted, mischaracterized and
outright ignored large portions of our presentation." The hedge fund manager is
"not just betting that the market will turn against Herbalife; he is going for
the regulatory takedown," Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor
column.

 |  Contact: @williamalden | E-mail

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

Mergers & Acquisitions »

What's to Become of Hewlett-Packard?  |  Meg Whitman says she needs time to turn
Hewlett-Packard around. "Five years," she tells Bloomberg Businessweek. "Some
people don't like that answer."
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK

Morgan Stanley Deal Maker Said to Be Joining Temasek   |  Jonathan Popper,
Morgan Stanley's top mergers and acquisitions banker in Southeast Asia, is
headed to Temasek Holdings of Singapore, Reuters reports, citing two
unidentified people with knowledge of the matter.
REUTERS

Gleacher Looks to Sell Manhattan Town House  |  A six-story Upper East Side town
house that for several years has been home to the well-known deal maker Eric J.
Gleacher is about to come on the market for $29.99 million, The New York Times
reports. Last year, Gleacher & Company, Mr. Gleacher's firm, said it was
considering selling itself.
NEW YORK TIMES

Cerberus to Buy Albertsons Grocery Chain From Supervalu  |  An investor group
led by Cerberus Capital Management agreed on Thursday to buy a number of grocery
chains from Supervalu, including Albertsons, for about $3.3 billion. The
Cerberus-led group will also buy up to 30 percent of Supervalu itself, paying $4
a share in a tender offer.
DealBook »

A Slump in Hostile Takeovers  |  The Financial Times reports: "Hostile takeovers
have fallen to a decade low, highlighting how lack of confidence among corporate
leaders is reining in deal making."
FINANCIAL TIMES

INVESTMENT BANKING »

R.B.S. Said to Consider Tapping Bonus Pool to Pay Fine  |  The Financial Times
reports that the Royal Bank of Scotland "is considering recouping half of its
imminent regulatory penalty for Libor abuses from the 2012 bonus pool of its
investment bankers, as pressure mounts on the top two executives in the division
to quit."
FINANCIAL TIMES

A Stream of Errors at High-Speed Exchanges  |  "Confidence-shaking technology
mishaps have been an almost daily occurrence at the nation's stock exchanges in
the new year," The New York Times writes.
NEW YORK TIMES

American Express to Cut 5,400 Jobs  |  The Associated Press reports: "American
Express said on Thursday that it would cut about 5,400 jobs, mainly in its
travel business, as it seeks to cut costs and transform its operations while
more of its customers shift to online portals for booking travel plans and other
needs."
ASSOCIATED PRESS

Citigroup Starts Electronic Bond-Trading System  |  Citigroup is preparing to
introduce the system in the next few weeks, after a similar move by Goldman
Sachs.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

Goldman Partner Buys Manhattan Apartment for $13 Million  |
BLOOMBERG NEWS

PRIVATE EQUITY »

Legg Mason Said to Have Been Approached by Private Equity  |  Reuters reports
that Legg Mason "has been approached in recent months by some of its senior
managers and private equity firms with plans to take the struggling asset
manager private, but the board has decided against exploring that option at
least until the company has a new chief executive, three sources said."
REUTERS

British Buyout Firm Prepares to Sell Companies  |  The London-based firm 3i
Group "has started the sale processes of at least four companies, including
Canadian group Mold Masters, as it focuses on returning cash to investors under
the helm of new chief executive Simon Borrows," The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES

HEDGE FUNDS »

Citadel Posted 25% Return Last Year, Beating Industry Again  |  Citadel, Kenneth
C. Griffin's firm, posted returns of about 25 percent in its main investment
funds, known as Kensington and Wellington, the firm wrote to investors in
letters sent on Thursday.
DealBook »

SAC Said to Expect Client Withdrawals  |  The Wall Street Journal reports: "SAC
Capital Advisors has told employees and business partners it is bracing for
client withdrawals of at least $1 billion this year - nearly 17 percent of the
money it manages for outside investors - amid intense regulatory scrutiny of
alleged insider trading, people briefed on the conversations said."
WALL STREET JOURNAL

SAC to Close Chicago Office  |
BLOOMBERG NEWS

I.P.O./OFFERINGS »

Why an I.P.O. Revival May Have to Wait  |  Yes, there have been pickups in a
number of debt markets, but equities issuance still faces challenges, Dominic
Elliott of Reuters Breakingviews writes.
DealBook »

VENTURE CAPITAL »

Enterprise Security Company Attracts $50 Million  |  FireEye, which offers
products to protect against cyber attacks, raised $50 million in venture
financing from firms including Sequoia Capital, Norwest Venture Partners and
Goldman Sachs, TechCrunch reports.
TECHCRUNCH

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

For Some Dead Brands, a Tortuous Path to Resurrection  |  Buying the rights to a
name and restarting operations of a beloved brand requires years of dedication,
say the owners of Chris-Craft, once the largest pleasure boat manufacturer in
the United States.
DealBook »

Regulators Propose Overhaul of Benchmark Interest Rate  |  European regulators
called for a major overhaul of a benchmark interest rate on Friday, but stopped
short of demanding direct regulatory oversight in the wake of the rate-rigging
scandal.
DealBook »

MF Global Creditors File Liquidation Proposal  |  Unsecured creditors of MF
Global, led by Silver Point Capital, Knighthead Capital and Cyrus Capital
Partners, filed a proposal on Thursday that they say could pay back former
customers of the brokerage firm in full, Reuters reports.
REUTERS

Geithner Reflects on His Tenure at Treasury  |  "It was a very bad crisis. No
playbook. No road map. No clear precedent," Timothy F. Geithner, the outgoing
Treasury Secretary, told The New York Times. "If we had a different set of
constraints, particularly in fiscal policy, then I think that the economic
outcome could have been modestly better."
NEW YORK TIMES

Judge Postpones Sentencing for Wells Fargo Broker  |  A California federal judge
has delayed the sentencing of Philip Horn, a Wells Fargo broker who pleaded
guilty to defrauding more than a dozen clients.
DealBook »

British Panel Castigates Ex-UBS Officials at Hearing  |  A parliamentary panel
denounced the former UBS bankers for expressing ignorance of the Libor
manipulation during the financial crisis.
DealBook »

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            January 13, 2013 Sunday

Serious Flaw in Java Software Is Found, Then Patched

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 445 words



HIGHLIGHT: The vulnerability was serious enough for the Department of Homeland
Security to advise all users of Microsoft Windows, Apple's Mac OS X and Linux
platforms to disable Java in their Web browsers.


 6:53 p.m. | Updated  Oracle fixed a security flaw in its Java software on
Sunday, after the Department of Homeland Security warned users to disable Java
software completely, citing a security hole that allows hackers to take control
of their machines.

"Java 7 Update 10 and earlier contain an unspecified vulnerability that can
allow a remote, unauthenticated attacker to execute arbitrary code on a
vulnerable system," the agency said in an alert issued last week. "This and
previous Java vulnerabilities have been widely targeted by attackers, and new
Java vulnerabilities are likely to be discovered."

A European security researcher who blogs under the name Kafeine first discovered
the vulnerability and posted it to his blog in a rare alert on Thursday. The
homeland security agency said that it had confirmed that Microsoft Windows,
Apple's Mac OS X and Linux platforms were all affected and that it was "unaware
of a practical solution to this problem." On Thursday evening, the agency
recommended that users disable Java in their Web browsers.

On Sunday, Oracle released a patch for the security hole.

Apple stopped shipping its computers with Java enabled last year, largely
because of security concerns, but said it was remotely disabling the Java 7
plug-in on Macs where it had already been installed. Windows and Linux users can
disable Java by following this guide on java.com.

Oracle did not return a request for comment on Sunday.

Java, a widely used programming language that runs on more than 850 million
personal computers, has been the source of security problems before. Last April,
hackers exploited a Java vulnerability to infect more than half a million Apple
computers with a vicious form of malware in what was the largest-scale attack on
the OS X operating system to date.

A month later, the Shadowserver Foundation, a nonprofit group that tracks cyber
threats, discovered that hackers had used a Java security hole to infect
visitors to several foreign policy Web sites, including the Web sites of the
International Institute for Counter-Terrorism, Amnesty International Hong Kong
and the Cambodian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

The exploit was particularly disconcerting because it let attackers download a
malicious program onto its victims' machines without prompting. Users did not
even have to click on a malicious link for their computers to be infected. The
program simply downloaded itself.


     ·    AT&T Is Said to Have Exposed iPad Owners' E-Mail Addresses
     ·    Google Shifts Pitch for Its New Chromebooks
     ·    U.S. Customs Workers to Switch to iPhones From BlackBerrys
     ·    The Internet Attack That Wasn't
     ·    Online Voter Registration Is Called Vulnerable to Hackers


LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 14, 2013 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Java Flaw In Browsers Is Discovered, Then Patched

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 416 words


6:53 p.m. | Updated Oracle fixed a security flaw in its Java software on Sunday,
after the Department of Homeland Security warned users to disable Java software
completely, citing a security hole that allows hackers to take control of their
machines.

"Java 7 Update 10 and earlier contain an unspecified vulnerability that can
allow a remote, unauthenticated attacker to execute arbitrary code on a
vulnerable system," the agency said in an alert issued last week. "This and
previous Java vulnerabilities have been widely targeted by attackers, and new
Java vulnerabilities are likely to be discovered."

A European security researcher who blogs under the name Kafeine first discovered
the vulnerability and posted it to his blog on Thursday. The homeland security
agency said that it had confirmed that Microsoft Windows, Apple's Mac OS X and
Linux platforms were all affected and that it was "unaware of a practical
solution to this problem." In a rare alert on Thursday evening, the agency
recommended that users disable Java in their Web browsers.

On Sunday, Oracle released a patch for the security hole.

Apple stopped shipping its computers with Java enabled last year, largely
because of security concerns, but said it was remotely disabling the Java 7
plug-in on Macs where it had already been installed. Windows and Linux users can
disable Java by following this guide on java.com.

Oracle did not return a request for comment on Sunday.

Java, a widely used programming language that runs on more than 850 million
personal computers, has been the source of security problems before. Last April,
hackers exploited a Java vulnerability to infect more than half a million Apple
computers with a vicious form of malware in what was the largest-scale attack on
the OS X operating system to date.

A month later, the Shadowserver Foundation, a nonprofit group that tracks cyber
threats, discovered that hackers had used a Java security hole to infect
visitors to several foreign policy Web sites, including the Web sites of the
International Institute for Counter-Terrorism, Amnesty International Hong Kong
and the Cambodian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

The exploit was particularly disconcerting because it let attackers download a
malicious program onto its victims' machines without prompting. Users did not
even have to click on a malicious link for their computers to be infected. The
program simply downloaded itself.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/01/13/u-s-agency-warns-of-java-software-probl
em/

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            January 14, 2013 Monday

Security Firm Discovers Cyber-Spy Campaign

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 975 words



HIGHLIGHT: A Russian cybersecurity company issued a report on Monday saying that
it had identified a sophisticated cyberespionage campaign that has been in
operation since 2007. The spy campaign has targeted a range of government and
diplomatic organizations, mostly in Eastern Europe, and evidence suggests the
attackers are of Russian-speaking origin.


SAN FRANCISCO - A Russian cybersecurity company issued a report on Monday saying
that it had identified a sophisticated cyberespionage campaign that has been in
operation since 2007. The spy campaign targeted a range of government and
diplomatic organizations, mostly in Eastern Europe and Central Asia, but also in
Western Europe and North America.

Kaspersky Lab, the firm behind the discovery, said that digital clues suggested
that the perpetrators were Russian-speaking, but that the campaign did not
appear to be the work of a nation state. However, as with a number of other
alarming recent reports on computer spying, Kasperky's report offered few
details that would allow for independent verification and did not specifically
call out the names of the organizations affected.

In an interview, Kurt Baumgartner, a senior security researcher at Kaspersky
Lab, said that among the "several hundreds" of victim organizations were
"embassies, consulates and trade centers." The vast majority of infected
machines were based in Russia - where Kaspersky identified 38 infected machines
- followed by Kazakhstan, where 16 infected machines were identified. Six
infected machines were found in the United States.

Mr. Baumgartner described the campaign as a "sophisticated and very patient
multiyear effort" to extract geopolitical and confidential intelligence from
computers, network devices like routers and switches, and smartphones. The
malware was designed to extract files, e-mails and passwords from PCs, record
keystrokes and take screenshots, and steal a user's Web browsing history on
Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer and Opera browsers. It could also pilfer
contacts, call histories, calendars, text messages and browsing histories from
smartphones, including iPhones, Windows, Nokia, Sony, and HTC phones. And it
collected information about installed software, including Oracle's database
software, remote administration software and instant messaging software, like
that made by Mail.Ru, a Russian e-mail and instant messaging service.

But Kaspersky said what set the campaign apart was the fact that the attackers
engineered their malware to steal files that have been encrypted with a
classified software, called Acid Cryptofiler, that is used by several countries
in the European Union and NATO to encrypt classified information.

Researchers discovered several Russian words embedded in the malware's code,
suggesting the attackers are of Russian-speaking origin. For instance, the word
"Zakladka" appears in the malware, which, in Russian and Polish, can mean
"bookmark." It is also a Russian slang term meaning "undeclared functionality"
in computer software or hardware. Intriguingly, Kaspersky's researchers said
that, in Russian, it also refers to a "microphone embedded in a brick of the
embassy building." (The United States and Russia have a history of bugging each
other's embassies.)

But as sophisticated as the malware was, Kaspersky said the methods attackers
used to infect systems were not. The researchers infected machines with a basic
"spearphishing" attack, in which they sent malicious e-mails to people within
targeted organizations that contained malicious Microsoft Excel or Microsoft
Word documents. Once opened, attackers were given full access to victims'
machines through well-known security exploits that were previously used in
campaigns by Chinese hackers to spy on Tibetan activists and military and energy
sector targets in Asia.

Mr. Baumgartner said the attackers either used well-known exploits out of
"laziness or as a clever way to hide their tracks."

The firm said attackers created more than 60 domain names and used several
server locations, mainly in Germany and Russia, to manage the network of
infected machines. But it said those servers were "proxies" designed to hide the
true "mother ship" command and control server.

Asked why Kaspersky decided not to identify the targets of the attack by name,
Mr. Baumgartner said that Kaspersky's investigation was still in place.

Cybersecurity has become a significant and growing concern globally, with
hackers gaining access to private corporate and military secrets, and
intellectual property. Last year, Kaspersky Lab discovered several
state-sponsored computer viruses including Flame, a sophisticated computer virus
that spied on computers in Iran, and Gauss, a separate virus that targeted
Lebanese banks. The firm said it believed both viruses were sponsored by the
same nation states that created Stuxnet, a sophisticated computer virus that The
New York Times has reported was a joint effort by the United States and Israel.

But Kaspersky has been less forthcoming on viruses originating in its own back
yard, in Russia and neighboring states, where Russian-speaking criminal
syndicates control a third of the estimated $12 billion global cybercrime
market, according to the Russian security firm Group-IB.

But Kaspersky's latest discovery could signal a turning point. The firm
nicknamed the campaign by Russian speakers "Operation Red October" - Rocra for
short -- because it was first tipped off to the campaign in October, after one
of its partners passed Kaspersky a sample of the malware used. Since then, the
firm has discovered over 1,000 "modules" or components of the malware, with the
earliest crafted in 2007 and the most recent component having been built as
recently as last week.

"The attackers managed to stay in the game for over five years and evade
detection of most antivirus products while continuing to exfiltrate what must be
hundreds of terabytes by now," Kaspersky said in its report.


     ·    Serious Flaw in Java Software Is Found, Then Patched
     ·    The Internet Attack That Wasn't
     ·    Online Voter Registration Is Called Vulnerable to Hackers
     ·    Ahead of Spyware Conference, More Evidence of Abuse
     ·    Connecting the Dots After Cyberattack on Saudi Aramco


LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                    (Green)

                            January 18, 2013 Friday

Drought Points Up Critical Role of Waterways

BYLINE: JOHN SCHWARTZ

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 449 words



HIGHLIGHT: If the Mississippi River got so low that navigation had to stop,
grain exports and the other commodities could get a lot more expensive very
quickly.


   When people think of the Mississippi River, they might have visions of Mark
Twain and old steamboats. But few Americans understand the vast amounts of
shipping traffic that still makes its way up and down the river, part of the
world's largest navigable inland waterway.

As I write in The Times, a Midwestern drought has caused the dwindling of the
mighty river in recent months. The phenomenon cannot necessarily be ascribed to
climate change - no individual weather event can be.

Still, shifting weather patterns, with heavier rainstorms in one area and much
lighter ones in others, are part of the emerging picture of the effects of the
overall global warming trend. Only a year ago, the river was experiencing record
flooding.

If drought does emerge as a more prominent facet of life on the Mississippi and
navigation is impeded, the effect on national and even global commerce will
undoubtedly be felt. The towboats pushing their tightly grouped clusters of
barges up and down the river move billions of dollars a month worth of grain for
export and fertilizer for Midwestern farmers, coal and fuel for power plants and
many other items.

If the river got so low that navigation had to stop, grain exports and the other
commodities could get a lot more expensive very quickly.

Barges, it turns out, provide a remarkably efficient way to move goods along the
Mississippi and its tributaries. The load aboard one fully loaded 15-barge tow,
if transferred to a train, would require more than 200 rail cars. Try to move
the goods by truck, and you would need a fleet of more than 1,000. And when the
river is running well, tow boats might push 24 barges or even more. So by
comparison with road or rail transport, the Mississippi is relatively green.

The looming crisis on the river has thrown a spotlight on the importance of
water traffic to the national economy. Rick Calhoun, the president of Cargo
Carriers, a part of Cargill, said that even President Obama, who has been
talking up infrastructure investment in recent months, has referred chiefly to
roads, railroads and air - "even cyber infrastructure," Mr. Calhoun complained.
"We don't talk about the waterways."

But as I note in my article, the president has begun taking a personal interest
in the Mississippi issue. So Mr. Calhoun is hoping that another mode of
transportation will finally get the love. "We will consider it a coup if the
president puts waterways in the State of the Union address," he said.


     ·    Big Drought Makes for a Small 'Dead Zone'
     ·    Does the Southwest Face a Mega-Drought?
     ·    On Our Radar: A Debate Challenge for Charles Koch
     ·    On Our Radar: Russia Warns of Climate Change
     ·    Drought Strains Russian Wheat Supplies


LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 19, 2013 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Even the Fiercest Performers Can Have the Kindest Hearts

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 399 words


''Vulnerability is the new strength,'' announced the alt-cabaret star Lady Rizo,
a k a Amelia Zirin-Brown, in her sensational two-hour-plus show at Joe's Pub on
Thursday evening. That declaration was made more than once in this fierce but
kindhearted fusion of comedy, burlesque, performance art and rock 'n' roll.

An ardent champion of live entertainment, Lady Rizo makes connections between
performer and audience that are impossible in any other context. Selected
patrons were chosen to be dressers during costume changes silhouetted behind a
screen. These interludes were also intimate question-and-answer sessions in
which she elicited details of her subjects' personal lives, but with enough
affection and sympathy to avoid scaring them.

Unlike so many seriously zany downtown performers, Lady Rizo is a formidable
belter who can sustain phrases and notes even when sprawled on her back on a
piano and scissoring her legs. She calls herself a chanteuse, a word, she said,
that usually draws blank stares from people who confuse it with ''chartreuse.''
Vocally, she is closer in style to Amy Winehouse than to her professed idols
Nina Simone and Peggy Lee.

The songs she performed at Joe's Pub (she returns on Feb. 7) came from
everywhere. The show began with a hard-charging version of the Gladys Knight &
the Pips hit ''If I Were Your Woman.'' There was an amusing rendition of Oscar
Brown Jr.'s ''Garden of Eden'' that became a kind of clinch involving the
singer, an audience member and hand puppets manipulated by Eric Wright. A funny
monologue about joining a Brownie troop after growing up among hippies led to
Dolly Parton's ''Coat of Many Colors'' wound around Blondie's ''One Way or
Another.''

Cole Porter's ''Love for Sale'' was jacked up into a tough blues shuffle by the
singer and her excellent quintet. She infused considerable anguish into Neil
Gaiman and Amanda Palmer's ''I Google You,'' about a late-night cyber search for
a former lover. She imparted a feral intensity to a Nine Inch Nails song with an
unprintable title.

Throughout the evening the balance between cynicism and optimism tilted toward
the positive. On the subject of glamour: Lady Rizo knows how silly it is, but
also how much fun it is, to dress up and preen. Understanding that balance, she
implied, amounts to personal liberation, the theme of the evening expressed in
her original anthem ''Song of Freedom.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/19/arts/music/lady-rizo-a-k-a-amelia-zirin-brown-
at-joes-pub.html

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lady Rizo: This alt-cabaret singer performed at Joe's Pub on
Thursday evening,  featuring songs by Gladys Knight & the Pips, Cole Porter,
Nine Inch Nails and others. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                            January 22, 2013 Tuesday

Pros Get the Shots You Can Share

BYLINE: ELAINE GLUSAC

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 337 words



HIGHLIGHT: A number of hotels now offer photographers or videographers as perks
that come with various packages.


Many travelers these days feel that going on vacation and failing to document it
on Instagram, Flickr or any number of other photo-sharing sites is much the same
as forgetting to send a postcard might have been a generation ago. It's a little
antisocial.

This presents a problem: When you're on vacation, having the fun you want so
much to document, who can snap your photos? A number of hotels have volunteered,
offering photographers or videographers as perks that come with various
packages.

One such hotel, theAlma del Pacifico Beach Hotel & Spa, on the central Pacific
coast of Costa Rica, enlists a professional photographer to capture guests
learning to surf in a two-hour lesson with a package that also includes
horseback riding, cocktails for two and a one-day car rental. Neophyte boarders
can pick up the digital images on a disk.

In Puerto Rico, at the San Juan Marriott Resort & Stellaris Casino, a concierge
shoots 30-second videos of guests on the water slide, in the pool or at the
beach, combines it with what videographers would call B-roll - slide-show-style
stills of the island and the hotel - and uploads the result on YouTube as a
digital postcard. The service is free.

And at least one hotel is selling a package that includes photos you may not
want to share, at least not widely. The new Revere Hotel Boston Common in Boston
has begun advertising a "Midnight Ride" package that includes a 90-minute photo
session with Allana Taranto, who specializes in boudoir shots featuring women in
lingerie. A makeup artist and a bottle of sparkling wine are thrown in, too.
After you sleep in the next day - the deal comes with late checkout - you can
scan the gallery of photos on a password-protected Web site. It's up to you
whether you want to Tweet about it or not.


     ·    Choosing a Hotel by 'Experience' and Neighborhood
     ·    Cyber Monday Now Includes Hotel Deals
     ·    Booking a Hotel in New York? Use Your Cell Power to Call, Not Surf.
     ·    A Bed-and-Breakfast Deal Proves Popular at Hotels
     ·    Orbitz Videos Hope Lookers Become Bookers


LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           January 24, 2013 Thursday

Wanelo: Social Commerce Site Is Big With Young Shoppers

BYLINE: JENNA WORTHAM

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 632 words



HIGHLIGHT: Wanelo, an up-and-coming e-commerce site, lets people browse through
beautifully arranged collections of clothing and other items, and links visitors
to stores where they can buy the products.


 The upsides to shopping online are plentiful -- skipping long checkout lines
and avoiding stuffy dressing rooms, to name two. But the downside is that unless
you know exactly what you're shopping for, it can be challenging to find great
new things to put in your cart.

Fashion Tumblrs, Pinterest and Lookbook.nu, a street photography site, are
certainly adept at displaying dreamy and sumptuous pictures of items you might
want to buy. But more often than not, there is no information about how to
purchase an item -- or even where it is from.

Enter Wanelo a start-up based in San Francisco that has the same aesthetic as
those sites, and one important difference: clicking on an image takes you
directly to the place where it's available for sale -- not another blog, image
site or Pinterest post. Wanelo (the name is a combination of want, need and
love) lets people share items, like articles of clothing, home furnishings,
beauty accessories and makeup products, for their friends and followers to see.
And they can browse others' items, comment on them and share them with friends.
Brands and companies like Anthropologie, REI and even the Apple repair shop
Tekserve can create their own collections of items for online window shoppers.

Deena Varshavskaya, the founder and chief executive of Wanelo, began sketching
out the idea for the site a few years ago. "I wanted to know what my friends
shopped for and what things they liked,"  Ms. Varshavskaya said. "But none of
the current social media sites were good for shopping."  She hired a developer
to help her build the site near the end of 2010, while she was running a user
experience and design agency in Los Angeles during the day. It went through
several iterations and by the end of 2011, she felt the site had enough traction
to begin working on it full time. The company raised $2 million from First Round
Capital and Floodgate, among others, in mid-2012.

Wanelo joins a host of other sites like The Fancy, which was rumored to be an
acquisition target for Apple, Svpply and Polyvore that want to serve up socially
curated shopping experiences, to help people sift through the millions of
products available for sale and  present a few in a streamlined, chic way. But
while Pinterest, Polyvore, Etsy and Tumblr still dwarf the site in terms of
traffic, Wanelo garners 1.3 million visitors a month, outpacing The Fancy and
Svpply, who both have less than half that, according to data from comScore.
Wanelo seems to have the attention of a younger demographic -- particularly
women -- and has a strong foothold in mobile.

The company's app is No. 1 in the lifestyle category in the Apple App Store, and
sits higher than Amazon, Etsy and eBay on the store's free apps chart. It
recently topped 1.5 million downloads,  Ms. Varshavskaya said.

Ms. Varshavskaya declined to share information on how many people have signed up
for Wanelo's Web site and mobile application, but she did say that 6 million
products are saved by members each day. Tens of thousands of products have been
listed on the site, she said.

"We're building a metalayer on top of commerce," she said. "The industry is
fragmented and we're bringing them into an interconnected network. You can find
any store on Wanelo."

Wanelo doesn't complete  transactions on its site, but it  has a built-in
revenue model. It directs users to the e-commerce site where they can buy an
item, and then gets  an affiliate commission, or a portion of each sale.

"Our core content is product,"  Ms. Varshavskaya said. "Wanelo has a buy button
on everything."


     ·    Walk in a Mall, Receive a Mobile Coupon
     ·    Slipstream: Learning to Chase Online Word of Mouth
     ·    How People Shopped Online This Holiday Season
     ·    Back at Work, and Catching Up on Online Shopping
     ·    Cyber Monday Shopping Surpasses Expectations


LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 27, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Preppers Next Door

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2572 words


A couple of weeks ago, on a leisurely Sunday afternoon, 40 people gathered at a
church in Washington Heights for a show-and-tell session sponsored by the New
York City Preppers Network. One by one, they stood in front of the room and
exhibited their ''bug-out bags,'' meticulously packed receptacles filled with
equipment meant to see them through the collapse of civilization.

Onto a folding table came a breathtaking array of disaster swag: compasses and
iodine pills, hand-cranked radios and solar-powered flashlights, magnesium
fire-starters and a fully charged Kindle with digital road maps of the tristate
region. Many of the items on display went far beyond the ''10 Basic Pillars of
Bug-Out Gear'' that Jason Charles, the network's leader, had passed out in
advance through the Internet. A good number were tweaked to fit their owners'
needs and interests. A locksmith in the group had a lock-picking set. A
vegetarian had a stash of homemade dehydrated lentils. One man had a condom
designed to serve as an emergency canteen; another had a rat trap -- to catch
and eat the rats.

After showing off his own bag (parachute cord, a bivy sack, a two-week supply of
Meals Ready to Eat), Mr. Charles, a New York City firefighter, told the group
that he had just bought a dog. ''So now I have to implement his plan, too,'' he
said a little worriedly. With a pause and a sheepish look, he added, ''That's
weird, right?''

New York hardly seems like a natural location for what has become known as the
prepper movement, but in fact the city's prepping community is not only large
and remarkably diverse, its leaders say, it's also growing rapidly.

To the unprepared, the very word ''prepper'' is likely to summon images of armed
zealots hunkered down in bunkers awaiting the End of Days, but the reality, at
least here in New York, is less dramatic. Local Preppers are doctors, doormen,
charter school executives, subway conductors, advertising writers and happily
married couples from the Bronx. They are no doubt people that you know -- your
acquaintances and neighbors. People, I'll admit, like myself.

It isn't easy being a Prepper these days. The discipline has taken blows from TV
programs like ''Doomsday Preppers,'' which -- despite its record ratings and
recent episodes, like ''Escape From New York'' -- is more or less a weekly
invitation to laugh at lunatics tunneling into mountainsides to escape a Russian
nuclear attack. Last month, a chill went through the movement when it turned out
that the mother of Adam Lanza, the shooter in the Newtown, Conn., killings, was
a Prepper. Even though prepping is increasingly visible in the culture --
through meet-up groups, books, films and weekend retreats at which canning
skills are learned -- it continues to be thought of as a marginal and unseemly
business, something on par with believing that the Bilderberg Group controls
world events or that the government is hiding aliens at Area 51.

MY OWN ATTEMPTS at prepping started at a point between the fall of Lehman
Brothers and the corresponding rise of quantitative easing, when it occurred to
me -- as, of course, it did to many -- that the financial system was appallingly
unstable and that the realm of the possible now included a disruptive reduction
in the value of our money. Egged on by admittedly heated readings of doomsday
authors like John Mauldin and Charles Hugh Smith, I began to form a picture of
the world as a system of unsustainable systems, a rickety Rube Goldberg machine
in which the loss of any one piece -- cheap oil, say -- could derail the whole
contraption, from truck transportation to the distribution of food.

In the wake of these insights, I called a family friend in Ohio, himself
half-a-Prepper, and he advised me to purchase a quantity of Silver Eagle coins
as an inflation hedge, which I did. Not long after came the hundred-dollar,
home-delivered month's supply of freeze-dried food -- in the standard and the
vegetarian options -- from Costco.com. I bought my wife, which is to say,
myself, John Seymour's homesteading classic, ''The Self-Sufficient Life and How
to Live It.'' I began the conversation about acquiring a gun.

While close friends visiting my home might be allowed a look at my haphazard
bug-out bag, I mostly kept quiet about prepping, aware of the embarrassment I
was courting. It was, therefore, with a measure of relief that I found myself
this month among brethren Preppers who intuitively understood my desire to have
at hand a packed supply of power bars or a LifeStraw personal drinking tool. You
do meet Preppers in New York who are preparing for extreme events like solar
flares or an eruption of the Yellowstone Caldera, but most say their concerns
are more immediate, more local: chief among them being terrorist attacks,
natural disasters and economic collapse.

''The Earth isn't going to crash into Planet X and the Mayan thing never
happened'' is how Mr. Charles put it when I introduced myself at the
show-and-tell. ''But I'll tell you this,'' he added. ''People here definitely
used their preps during Sandy.''

Not surprisingly, the storm attracted numerous recruits to his group and joined
a list of totemic prepping moments that already included the much-hyped Y2K
fiasco, 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina. I learned that New York Preppers prep for
reasons as varied as their anxieties and experience. ''It was a pragmatic
response to certain things I know,'' said Robert Segal, a wine salesman between
jobs, who once worked as an electrical technician on a nuclear submarine. ''As
an engineer, I'm sort of a student of how things fall apart.''

I found this practicality attractive. I liked how Preppers were given to debate
(bear spray or baseball bats? Water purification or water filtration?) and how
they were versed in esoteric areas of knowledge (fish antibiotics, New York City
knife laws). I was especially enamored of the jargon: ''GOOD'' (Get Out of
Dodge) or ''TEOTWAWKI'' (The End of the World as We Know It). And yet, I must
confess, there were moments that gave me pause.

During his presentation, Mr. Charles suggested that a well-prepared bug-out bag
was only part of the equation; just as important was knowing where to go.
''Bugging out will not be easy,'' he explained. ''It might take three or four
hours to get out of the city. If the bridges are blocked, you might have to use
a raft to get across the river. Everyone's situation will be different.''

Then, as the show-and-tell ended, he gave the prize for Best Bag to a precocious
young Prepper whose kit included a fishing line, a seat belt cutter, ready-start
fuel cubes, several types of multi-tools and a smoke hood. The winner had come
with his mother and had dutifully prepared a bag for her. I wanted to talk with
him, but when I approached, he asked if I was ''press'' and suspiciously refused
to give his name.

I later found out that he was 12.

EARLY IN MY TRAVELS, I was told the man to see for a deeper understanding of
prepping in New York was Aton Edwards, founder of the International Preparedness
Network and author of the emergency survival guide ''Preparedness Now!'' Mr.
Edwards, 51, is often called the city's foremost expert in personal disaster
preparation -- he has appeared on the ''Today'' show, has taught his ''Ready
Up!'' seminars to hundreds of participants with partners like the Red Cross and
has set up, as part of the National Urban Self-Reliance and Preparedness
Program, ''incident command centers'' across New York, like the one he recently
created for the hip-hop pioneer Afrika Bambaataa in the Bronx.

Mr. Edwards has sufficient recognition in the prepping world that just last
month someone calling himself Hudson Valley Prepper left a message on
Preppergroups.com warning that one day in the not-too-distant future he might
head north. ''This guy Aton Edwards,'' the message read, ''a dangerous man in
his own right, is currently holding prepper training in New York City and has
stated that the number one goal is to get out of the city. Do you think you
could stop Aton and his followers once he has been on the road for a week and is
starving?''

When I met Mr. Edwards in Brooklyn this month, I found a hulking man dressed
entirely in black, sitting in front of a laptop and giving an Internet tutorial
on bug-out-bag preparedness to members of Evolver. net, the ''global community
of cultural creatives'' established by Daniel Pinchbeck, a proponent of last
year's Mayan apocalypse phenomenon. In between displaying items like his
Chinese-made survival shovel with the saw blade and nail-puller, Mr. Edwards
said: ''Daniel just wants his people to be ready. Even if you're cosmically
conscious, you still need to prepare for what it'll be like with no food or
water.''

As I got to know him better, Mr. Edwards told me the story of his own interest
in disaster preparation, which began, he said, in 1972, when he went to see
''Deliverance'' on the Grand Concourse in the Bronx. (''I thought it was a
camping movie.'') He entered the theater as a relatively normal 10-year-old, but
emerged as a Prepper: ''I said to myself, 'Gee, I should get to learning
everything possible to prevent that situation from occurring.' ''

Acquiring skills over the next two decades from military manuals and from
Soldier of Fortune magazine, he said he went one day to a course in civil
defense hosted by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and recalled being
horrified that the government was still relying on ''cold war supplies of vienna
sausages and five-pound bags of sugar.'' His disillusionment led in 1989 to the
founding of I.P.N., which seeks to train civilians to be ready for emergencies
like cyber attacks and flu pandemics.

It was not by chance, Mr. Edwards said, that prepping first took root in New
York in the black community: he himself is black, and in the 1990s he became a
frequent guest on ''The Open Line,'' a call-in radio show on the ''urban adult''
station WBLS. Around the same time, he started giving classes in disaster
preparation at the National Action Network, the Rev. Al Sharpton's civil rights
group. ''Obviously,'' Mr. Edwards said, ''because of our history, black folks
know that bad things happen.''

These days, he added, the prepping movement is ''the strangest mishmash of
people you could ever find -- black, white, men, women, everyone. It looks like
America.''

In his professional opinion, the next big development in prepping will be the
arrival of entrepreneurial capitalists, and this made me think of Fabian Illanes
and Roman Zrazhevskiy, two men in their 20s I met at the show-and-tell. Former
classmates at George H. Hewlett High School on Long Island, Mr. Illanes and Mr.
Zrazhevskiy have been prepping since their teens and recently created
Readytogosurvival.com, a Prepper Web site that sells prepacked bug-out bags with
paramilitary names like the Tactical Traveler ($439.99) and the Covert Defender
($629.99). They told me that they had been visiting Prepper meetings across the
New York region in order ''to discover their customers.''

Mr. Edwards has also entered the Prepper market, and one day I accompanied him
to Westchester to observe a consultation he was doing (at $120 an hour) for Jeff
and Joanna Lee Doster, a couple in their 50s recently transplanted from
Manhattan. The Dosters -- he is a retired marketing executive, and she is the
author of ''Celebrity Bedroom Retreats'' -- found themselves without a home
during Hurricane Sandy after the poorly timed sale of their apartment on West
57th Street.

''We felt so helpless,'' Ms. Doster said as we arrived. ''That's why we called
Aton.''

After examining their new house -- ''Decent elevation, but not too
solar-friendly'' -- Mr. Edwards issued his analysis. The Dosters rely on
electric power for their heat and water, and given the prevalence of long winter
power failures in their town, Mr. Edwards recommended a 60-gallon Aquatank
water-storage mattress for under the bed. He also suggested at least 10 boxes of
Nuvona emergency food and advised the couple to invest in two electric bicycles,
energy-saving lights (''If you want to get jiggy with it, try the LEDs'') and a
rooftop windmill for alternate generation.

''Now your worst-case scenario is that something goes down at Indian Point,'' he
said, referring to the nuclear reactor in Buchanan, N.Y., 30 minutes away.
''You're in the peak-injury zone. You'd get a pretty serious dose of radioactive
particulates.''

The Dosters looked terrified.

''The good part?'' Mr. Edwards reassured them. ''This is a rental.''

PREPPING IS THE BIG SHORT: a bet not just against a city, or a country or a
government, but against the whole idea of sustainable civilization. For that
reason, it chafes against one of polite society's last remaining taboos -- that
the way we live is not simply plagued by certain problems, but is itself
insolubly problematic.

It seemed important to know if this all-encompassing negativity was histrionic
or appropriate -- that is, if the hard-core Preppers I had met were crazy or
were, in fact, on to something. Just before the show-and-tell, I came across a
news report about Dr. Irwin Redlener, the director of the National Center for
Disaster Preparedness at Columbia University, whom Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo had
recently named to lead a commission investigating how ready the state was for
another Hurricane Sandy-like emergency. I arranged an interview, figuring that
he, if anyone, could answer my question.

Although he had a cold when we met at his office in Harlem, Dr. Redlener was a
soothing presence -- bearded, erudite and open to the notion that ordinary
people have a central role in emergency preparedness. The government, he told
me, reacted decisively after 9/11, establishing the Department of Homeland
Security, so why shouldn't everyday citizens react?

''It's impossible to forget that we live in a world vulnerable to hazards,
man-made and natural,'' he said. ''So it's legitimate to ask: What is the impact
on individuals?''

His answer was squarely in line with Prepper doctrine. Dr. Redlener said it was
rational -- indeed, it was recommended -- to have a three-day supply of food and
water, a working flashlight, a first-aid kit, a radio that runs without
batteries and a plan in place to rejoin one's relatives after a disaster. He
talked about situational awareness, a major Prepper mantra. ''A prepared citizen
is someone who understands how to take care of himself,'' he said, ''who has
amassed the necessary items, who has a plan.''

When I asked about some of those I had met along the way -- say, the geared-up
12-year-old, Leonardo Ruiz Jr., who, dropping his suspicions, later gave his
name to a photographer -- he gave a forbearing smile. ''There's a spectrum,''
Dr. Redlener said. ''On one end is mindless complacency. On the other is
paranoia. The challenge is to find that place in the middle where you understand
that bad things can happen, but it doesn't consume your life.''

Then he surprised me. I had never heard even a quasi-government official admit
that the authorities would not respond promptly in an emergency, but Dr.
Redlener said that ''gaps'' existed during ''mega-disasters,'' hours, even days,
when there might not be an official response.

''The well-being of many, many people in harm's way will be dependent in those
gaps on social networks, on community and on individual preparedness,'' he said.

He added, aphoristically, ''We are all first responders.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/27/nyregion/the-doomsday-preppers-of-new-york.htm
l

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A centerpiece of the survival plan is the ''bug-out bag,'' a
collection of necessities. Above, the contents of a bag packed by Aton Edwards,
the founder of the International Preparedness Network, include a water
purification device, steel-toed boots, a gas mask, and, bottom far right,
personal artifacts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
Aton Edwards, 51, top, teaching a class this month via Skype on disaster
preparedness. Above, Mr. Edwards's survival armband. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN
LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
TONY CENICOLA /THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 At a meeting of the New York City Preppers Network this month, above center, a
member showed off a hand-operated chain saw. Above, Luz Elvira Gonzalez and her
son Leonardo Ruiz Jr., 12, checking out their bug-out bag. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON
WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 28, 2013 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pentagon Expanding Cybersecurity Force to Protect Networks Against Attacks

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 523 words


WASHINGTON -- The Pentagon is moving toward a major expansion of its
cybersecurity force to counter increasing attacks on the nation's computer
networks, as well as to expand offensive computer operations on foreign
adversaries, defense officials said Sunday.

The expansion would increase the Defense Department's Cyber Command by more than
4,000 people, up from the current 900, an American official said. Defense
officials acknowledged that a formidable challenge in the growth of the command
would be finding, training and holding onto such a large number of qualified
people.

The Pentagon ''is constantly looking to recruit, train and retain world class
cyberpersonnel,'' a defense official said Sunday.

''The threat is real and we need to react to it,'' said William J. Lynn III, a
former deputy defense secretary who worked on the Pentagon's cybersecurity
strategy.

As part of the expansion, officials said the Pentagon was planning three
different forces under Cyber Command: ''national mission forces'' to protect
computer systems that support the nation's power grid and critical
infrastructure; ''combat mission forces'' to plan and execute attacks on
adversaries; and ''cyber protection forces'' to secure the Pentagon's computer
systems.

The move, part of a push by Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta to bolster the
Pentagon's cyberoperations, was first reported on The Washington Post's Web
site.

In October, Mr. Panetta warned in dire terms that the United States was facing
the possibility of a ''cyber-Pearl Harbor'' and was increasingly vulnerable to
foreign computer hackers who could dismantle the nation's power grid,
transportation system, financial network and government. He said that ''an
aggressor nation'' or extremist group could cause a national catastrophe, and
that he was reacting to increasing assertiveness and technological advances by
the nation's adversaries, which officials identified as China, Russia, Iran and
militant groups.

Defense officials said that Mr. Panetta was particularly concerned about a
computer attack last August on the state oil company Saudi Aramco, which
infected and made useless more than 30,000 computers. In October, American
intelligence officials said they were increasingly convinced that the Saudi
attacks originated in Iran. They described an emerging shadow war of attacks and
counterattacks already under way between the United States and Iran in
cyberspace.

Among American officials, suspicion has focused on the ''cybercorps'' created in
2011 by Iran's military, partly in response to American and Israeli cyberattacks
on the Iranian nuclear enrichment plan at Natanz. There is no hard evidence,
however, that the attacks were sanctioned by the Iranian government.

The attacks emanating from Iran have inflicted only modest damage. Iran's
cyberwarfare capabilities are weaker than those of China and Russia, which
intelligence officials believe are the sources of a significant number of
attacks on American companies and government agencies.

The expansion of Cyber Command comes as the Pentagon is making cuts elsewhere,
including in the size of its conventional armed forces.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/28/us/pentagon-to-beef-up-cybersecurity-force-to-
counter-attacks.html

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            January 28, 2013 Monday

Daily Report: Pentagon Expanding Online Defenses

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 371 words



HIGHLIGHT: Defense officials say that the Pentagon is moving toward a major
expansion of its cybersecurity force to counter increasing attacks on the
nation's computer networks, as well as to expand offensive computer operations
on foreign adversaries, Elisabeth Bumiller reports on Monday in The New York
Times.


 Defense officials say that the Pentagon is moving toward a major expansion of
its cybersecurity force to counter increasing attacks on the nation's computer
networks, as well as to expand offensive computer operations on foreign
adversaries, Elisabeth Bumiller reports on Monday in The New York Times.

The expansion would increase the Defense Department's Cyber Command by more than
4,000 people, up from 900, an American official said. Defense officials
acknowledged that a formidable challenge in the growth of the command would be
finding, training and holding on to such a large number of qualified people.

The Pentagon "is constantly looking to recruit, train and retain world class
cyberpersonnel," a defense official said Sunday.

"The threat is real, and we need to react to it," said William J. Lynn III, a
former deputy defense secretary who worked on the Pentagon's cybersecurity
strategy.

As part of the expansion, officials said the Pentagon was planning three
different forces under Cyber Command: "national mission forces" to protect
computer systems that support the nation's power grid and critical
infrastructure, "combat mission forces" to plan and execute attacks on
adversaries and "cyber protection forces" to secure the Pentagon's computer
systems.

The move, part of a push by Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta to bolster the
Pentagon's cyberoperations, was first reported on The Washington Post's Web
site.

In October, Mr. Panetta warned in dire terms that the United States was facing
the possibility of a "cyber-Pearl Harbor" and was increasingly vulnerable to
foreign computer hackers who could dismantle the nation's power grid,
transportation system, financial network and government. He said that "an
aggressor nation" or extremist group could cause a national catastrophe, and
that he was reacting to increasing assertiveness and technological advances by
the nation's adversaries, which officials identified as China, Russia, Iran and
militant groups.


     ·    Critical Infrastructure Systems Seen as Vulnerable to Attack
     ·    The Internet Attack That Wasn't
     ·    Two-Step Computer Security, Beyond the A.T.M.
     ·    Online Voter Registration Is Called Vulnerable to Hackers
     ·    The Dangers of Allowing an Adversary Access to a Network


LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                            January 29, 2013 Tuesday

Introducing Fashioning Change: Wear This, Not That

BYLINE: ADRIANA HERRERA

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 682 words



HIGHLIGHT: Our business model is built on the premise that we can encourage
consumers to make purchases from brands that protect health, the environment,
and human rights at every step in the supply chain.


I'm the founder and chief executive of Fashioning Change, a start-up that helps
shoppers purchase stylish, money-saving, safe and sweatshop-free alternatives to
top name brands.

We had our "Hello World" beta test on Cyber Monday in November 2011. Every brand
we carry is vetted according to our five promises: be fashionable, be well made,
protect health, protect the Earth and protect human rights (we call this our
"Promise of 5"). We offer more than 18,000 shopping options, including our own
line of organic clothing that is made in Los Angeles. Every garment we produce
includes a scannable tag that helps connect shoppers to each of the steps in the
supply chain. And when people purchase our suggested products, we save them an
average of 27 percent over the name-brand options.

So far, along with me, the company consists of Kevin Ball, my technical
co-founder; Kestrel Jenkins, who is in charge of product sourcing, and Steve
Klebanoff, software engineer. We have an office in San Diego and a house in
Santa Monica. Every other week, the two-bedroom house accommodates the four of
us. We wake up to live, breathe and sleep Fashioning Change. Can you imagine
living and working with your colleagues 24/7?

Our business model is built on the premise that by providing access to
alternatives, we can encourage consumers to make purchases of brands that
protect peoples' health, the environment and human rights at every step in the
supply chain. We believe that as we grow, we will have an impact on the bottom
lines of mainstream corporations, motivating them to adopt similar practices in
order to regain market share.

The ideas behind the company were instilled in me by my father. He grew up in
Juarez, Mexico, a city that many consumer-goods companies use as an outsourcing
location. He had friends and family who worked in many of the factories, and he
saw the impact people could have when they chose to purchase one brand over
another. With that in mind, he gave my brothers and me three rules we had to
abide by when making purchases: One, we couldn't buy anything made in Asia
because he believed the manufacturing practices in many Asian countries were
worse than they were in Mexico. Two, we weren't allowed to buy clothing made of
synthetic materials. And three, we weren't allowed to wear dark clothing because
he believed that children were the light of the world and should dress in bright
colors.

As a result, when I was growing up in San Diego, I used to run around the
children's department at Nordstrom, flipping tags to find clothing that hadn't
been made in Asia. Then, I would flip all of the tags again to see which pieces
were made of "father-approved" materials. Sometimes, when I was particularly
frustrated that I couldn't buy a dress I wanted, I would hide in a clothing rack
and pout. But early on, I was taught to think about where products come from,
how they were made, who made them and under what conditions. Little did I know
that my father's shopping rules - along with my post-college work experience
with nonprofit, public relations and manufacturing organizations would end up
inspiring me to create Fashioning Change.

Over the last year and a half, I have navigated my way through a technology
accelerator, taught myself to code, recruited a team, raised a first round of
financing, opened an office in another city, manufactured a own line of clothing
in the United States and managed to avoid about a hundred landmines that could
have crushed Fashioning Change. Through this blog, I hope to share my
experiences as a Hispanic, single, woman founder building a tech start-up that
intends to make money and do good. I plan to share our successes, our mistakes
and our frustrations.

Inmy next post, I'll tell you more about how the company works.

Lets connect. Email me at adriana@fashioningchange.com You can also follow me on
Twitter at @adriana_herrera


     ·    Our Vision: Make Sales to End Sweatshops
     ·    This Week in Small Business: Free Lunch?
     ·    Using Retirement Money to Start a Business
     ·    Torn Between Two Start-Up Communities
     ·    This Week in Small Business: Not Again!


LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                           January 30, 2013 Wednesday

Rihanna Says She Has Reconciled With Chris Brown

BYLINE: JAMES C. MCKINLEY JR.

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 285 words



HIGHLIGHT: "Even if it's a mistake, it's my mistake," the singer told Rolling
Stone.


Rihanna has told Rolling Stone she has reconciled with her boyfriend Chris
Brown, who was convicted of brutally assaulting her four years ago just before
the Grammy Awards. She said she has decided to give him a second chance despite
criticism that her decision might be seen as forgiving violence against women.
Over the last year there have signs the couple had resumed dating: they
collaborated on songs and appeared in public together several times.

"I decided it was more important for me to be happy," she told the magazine. "I
wasn't going to let anybody's opinion get in the way of that. Even if it's a
mistake, it's my mistake. After being tormented for so many years, being angry
and dark, I'd rather just live my truth and take the backlash. I can handle it."

Four years ago, Mr. Brown attacked Rihanna in a car after a party on the eve of
the Grammy Awards. He pleaded guilty to assault and received a sentence of five
years' probation. Over the weekend, the police in Los Angeles said, Mr. Brown
was involved in an altercation with the R&B singer Frank Ocean over a parking
space.

"When you add up the pieces from the outside, it's not the cutest puzzle in the
world," Rihanna said. "You see us walking somewhere, driving somewhere, in the
studio, in the club, and you think you know. But it's different now. We don't
have those types of arguments anymore." She added she would not stand for any
more violence from Mr. Brown. "That's just not an option," she said.


     ·    Police Close SoHo Club After a Celebrity Brawl
     ·    Cyber Furor Over Chris Brown's Appearance at Grammys
     ·    Chris Brown to Perform at the Grammys
     ·    Rihanna Speaks Out About Violent 'Man Down' Video
     ·    Rihanna Video Depicting Violent Attack Is Criticized


LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 1, 2013 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Text of Chuck Hagel's Opening Remarks

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Politics; Pg.

LENGTH: 2331 words


The following is Chuck Hagel's opening remarks to the Senate Armed Services
Committee, as prepared for delivery.

Thank you Chairman Levin, Ranking Member Inhofe, and Distinguished Members of
the Committee. I am honored to come before you today as the President's nominee
to be Secretary of Defense.

I want to thank my friends Sam Nunn and John Warner for their support,
encouragement, and friendship over many years. These two distinguished Americans
represent what's best about American public service and responsible
bipartisanship. They have embodied both in their careers and are models for each
of us.

To my family, friends, and fellow veterans who are here this morning -- and
those who are not -- thank you. A life is only as good as the family and friends
you have and the people you surround yourself with.

I also want to thank my friend Leon Panetta for his tremendous service to our
country over so many years. If I'm given the privilege of succeeding him, it
will be a high honor.

Finally, I want to thank President Obama for his confidence and trust in me. I
am humbled by the opportunity and possibility he has given me to serve our
country once again.

I fully recognize the immense responsibilities of the Secretary of Defense. I
assured the President that if I am confirmed by the United States Senate, I will
always do my best for our nation and for the men and women -- and their families
--

who are called on to make the enormous sacrifices of military service. Their
safety, success, and welfare will always be at the forefront of the decisions I
make.

I also assured the President that I would always provide him with my most honest
and informed advice. I make that same commitment to this Committee and to the
Congress. If confirmed, I will reach out to the members of this Committee for
advice and collaboration. It will be a partnership, because the national
security challenges America faces require it.

Our nation's security is the highest priority of our leaders and our government.
We cannot allow the work of confronting the great threats we face today to be
held hostage to partisanship on either side of the aisle, or by differences
between the bodies represented in Articles I and II of our Constitution. The
stakes are too high. Men and women of all political philosophies and parties
fight and die for our country. As this Committee knows so well, protecting our
national security or committing a nation to war can never become political
litmus tests. I know Secretary Panetta has put a strong emphasis on reaching out
to the Congress. I, like Leon, come from the Congress, and respect and
understand this institution's indispensable role in setting policy and helping
govern our country.

We are all products of the forces that shape us. For me, there has been nothing
more important in my life -- or a more defining influence on my life -- than my
family. Whether it was helping my mother raise four boys after my father -- a
World War II veteran -- died suddenly at age 39 on Christmas Day, or serving
side by side my brother Tom in Vietnam, or the wonderful miracle of my wife
Lilibet and me being blessed with two beautiful children. That is who I am. We
each bring to our responsibilities ''frames of reference'' formed by our life's

experiences. They help instruct our judgments. We build out from those personal
foundations by continually informing ourselves, listening, and learning.

Like each of you, I have a record. A record I am proud of, not because of any
accomplishments I may have achieved, or an absence of mistakes, but rather
because I've tried to build that record by living my life and fulfilling my
responsibilities as honestly as I knew how and with hard work. Under-pinning
everything I've done in my life was the belief that we must always be striving
to make our nation a better and more secure place for all of our people.

During the twelve years I had the privilege of serving the people of Nebraska in
the United States Senate, I cast over 3,000 votes and hundreds of Committee
votes. I've also given hundreds of interviews and speeches, and written a book.
So, as you all know, I am on the record on many issues.

But no one individual vote, quote, or statement defines me, my beliefs, or my
record. My overall worldview has never changed: that America has and must
maintain the strongest military in the world; that we must lead the
international community to confront threats and challenges together; and that we
must use all tools of American power to protect our citizens and our interests.
I believe, and always have, that America must engage -- not retreat -- in the
world. My record is consistent on these points.

It's clear that we are living at a defining time. Our nation is emerging from
over a decade of war. We have brought our men and women in uniform home from
Iraq, and have started to bring them home from Afghanistan.

That does not mean the threats we face and will continue to face are any less
dangerous or complicated. In fact, it is quite the opposite. Recent events in
Mali and Algeria remind us of this reality. Twenty first century complexities,

technologies, economies, and threats are bringing the seven billion global
citizens closer together. And as our planet adds another two billion people over
the next 25 years, the dangers, complications, and human demands will not be
lessened, but rather heightened.

Despite these challenges, I believe we also have historic opportunities to help
build a safer, more prosperous, more secure, more hopeful and just world than at
maybe any time in history. Yes, the curse of intolerance, hatred, and danger
exists around the world, and we must continue to be clear-eyed about this danger
-- and we will be. We will not hesitate to use the full force of the United
States military in defense of our security. But we must also be smart, and more
importantly wise, in how we employ all of our nation's great power.

America's continued leadership and strength at home and abroad will be
critically important for our country and the world. While we will not hesitate
to act unilaterally when necessary, it is essential that we work closely with
our allies and partners to enhance America's influence and security -- as well
as global security. If confirmed, I will continue to build on the efforts of
this administration and of former Secretary Gates, Secretary Panetta, and
Secretary Clinton to strengthen our alliances and partnerships around the world.
I will also look forward to working with my former Senate colleague and friend,
John Kerry, in this effort.

As I told the President, I am committed to his positions on all issues of
national security, specifically decisions that the Department of Defense is in
the process of implementing. This includes the Defense Strategic Guidance the
President outlined in January 2012. Allow me to briefly address a few of those
specific issues now.

First, we have a plan in place to transition out of Afghanistan, continue
bringing our troops home, and end the war there -- which has been the longest
war in America's history. As you know, discussions are ongoing about what the
U.S. presence in Afghanistan will look like after 2014. The President has made
clear -- and I agree -- that there should be only two functions for U.S. troops
that remain in Afghanistan after 2014: counterterrorism -- particularly to
target al Qaeda and its affiliates, and training and advising Afghan forces.
It's time we forge a new partnership with Afghanistan, with its government and,
importantly, with its people.

Second, as Secretary of Defense I will ensure we stay vigilant and keep up the
pressure on terrorist organizations as they try to expand their affiliates
around the world, in places like Yemen, Somalia, and North Africa. At the
Pentagon, that means continuing to invest in and build the tools to assist in
that fight, such as special operations forces and new intelligence,
surveillance, and reconnaissance technologies. And it will mean working
hand-in-hand with our partners across the national security and intelligence
communities, to confront these and other threats, especially the emerging threat
of cyber warfare.

Third, as I have made clear, I am fully committed to the President's goal of
preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon, and -- as I've said in the past
-- all options must be on the table to achieve that goal. My policy is one of
prevention, and not one of containment -- and the President has made clear that
is the policy of our government. As Secretary of Defense, I will make sure the
Department is prepared for any contingency. I will ensure our friend and ally
Israel maintains its Qualitative Military Edge in the region and will continue
to support systems like Iron Dome, which is today saving Israeli lives from
terrorist rocket attacks.

Fourth, while we pursue the reductions in our deployed stockpiles and launchers
consistent with the New START Treaty, I am committed to maintaining a modern,
strong, safe, ready, and effective nuclear arsenal. America's nuclear deterrent
over the last 65 years has played a central role in ensuring global security and
the avoidance of a World War III. I am committed to modernizing our nuclear
arsenal.

As we emerge from this decade of war, we also must broaden our nation's focus
overseas as we look at future threats and challenges. As this Committee knows,
that's why DoD is rebalancing its resources towards the Asia-Pacific region. We
are in the process of modernizing our defense posture across the entire region
to defend and deepen our partnerships with traditional allies, especially Japan,
South Korea, and Australia; to continue to deter and defend against provocations
from states like North Korea, as well as non-state actors; and to expand our
networks of security cooperation throughout the region to combat terrorism,
counter proliferation, provide disaster relief, fight piracy, and ensure
maritime security.

I will continue this rebalancing, even as we continue to work closely with our
longtime NATO allies and friends, and with allies and partners in other regions.
At the same time, we will continue to focus on challenges in the Middle East and
North Africa, where we have clear national interests. Rather, it is a
recognition that the United States has been and always will be a Pacific power,
and the Asia- Pacific is an increasingly vital part of the globe for America's
security and economy. That's why we must become even more engaged in the region
over the coming years.

Doing all of this and much more will require smart and strategic budget
decisions. I have made it clear I share Leon Panetta's and our service chiefs'
serious concerns about the impact sequestration would have on our armed forces.
And as someone

who has run businesses, I know the uncertainty and turbulence of the current
budget climate makes it much more difficult to manage the Pentagon's resources.
If confirmed, I am committed to effectively and efficiently using every single
taxpayer dollar; to maintaining the strongest military in the world; and to
working with Congress to ensure the Department has the resources it needs -- and
that the disposition of those resources is accountable.

Even as we deal with difficult budget decisions, I will never break America's
commitment to our troops, our veterans, and our military families. We will
continue to invest in the well-being of our all-volunteer force. And, working
with the VA and other institutions, we will make sure our troops and their
families get the health care, job opportunities, and education they have earned
and deserve -- just as I did when I co-authored the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill with
Senators Jim Webb, John Warner, and Frank Lautenberg. This includes focusing on
the mental health of our fighting force, because no one who volunteers to fight
and die for our country should feel like they have nowhere to turn.

In my twelve years in the Senate, my one guiding principle on every national
security decision I made and every vote I cast was always this: Is our policy
worthy of our troops and their families and the sacrifices we ask them to make?
That same question will guide me if I am confirmed as Secretary of Defense. Our
men and women in uniform and their families must never doubt that their leaders'
first priority is them. I believe my record of leadership on veterans issues
over the years -- going back to my service in the Veterans Administration under
President Reagan -- demonstrates my rock-solid commitment to our veterans and
their families.

We must always take care of our people. That's why I will work to ensure that
everyone who volunteers to fight for this country has the same rights and
opportunities. As I've discussed with many of you in our meetings, I am fully
committed to implementing the repeal of Don't Ask, Don't Tell and doing
everything possible under current law to provide equal benefits to the families
of all our service members. I will work with the service chiefs as we officially
open combat positions to women, a decision that I strongly support. And I will
continue the important work that Leon Panetta has done to combat sexual assault
in the military. Maintaining the health and well-being of those who serve is
critical to maintaining a strong and capable military, because an institution's
people must always come first.

As we look ahead to the coming years, we have an extraordinary opportunity now
to define what's next for America's military and our country. It is incumbent
upon all of us to make decisions that will ensure our nation is prepared to
confront any threat we may face, protect our citizens, and remain the greatest
force for good in the world.

If confirmed as Secretary of Defense, it will be my great honor -- working with
the President, this Committee, the Congress, and our military -- to ensure our
policies are worthy of the service and sacrifice of America's finest men and
women. Thank you. I look forward to your questions.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/01/us/politics/text-of-chuck-hagels-opening-remar
ks.html

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 1, 2013 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wall Street Journal Announces That It Was Hacked by the Chinese, Too

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH; Michael Gordon contributed reporting from
Washington.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 619 words


One day after The New York Times reported that Chinese hackers had infiltrated
its computers and stolen passwords for its employees, The Wall Street Journal
announced that it too had been hacked.

On Thursday, The Journal reported that it had been attacked by Chinese hackers
who were trying to monitor the company's coverage of China. It said hackers had
broken into its network through computers in its Beijing bureau.

In a written statement, the business newspaper owned by News Corporation
described the attack as an ''ongoing issue'' and said it was working closely
with authorities and security specialists to clean up its systems. It said that
it completed a ''network overhaul'' on Thursday in an effort to rid its systems
of hackers.

China's Ministry of National Defense has denied any involvement in the
cyberattack at The Times or any other American corporations.

But security experts said that in 2008, Chinese hackers began targeting American
news organizations as part of an effort to monitor coverage of Chinese issues.

In a report for clients in December, Mandiant, a computer security company, said
that over the course of several investigations it found evidence that Chinese
hackers had stolen e-mails, contacts and files from more than 30 journalists and
executives at Western news organizations, and had maintained a ''short list'' of
journalists for repeated attacks. Among those targeted were journalists who had
written about Chinese leaders, political and legal issues in China and the
telecom giant Huawei.

Bloomberg News, another American news organization, was targeted by Chinese
hackers last year, and some computers were infected, according to a person with
knowledge of the company's internal investigation. The attack occurred after
Bloomberg published an article on June 29 about the wealth accumulated by
relatives of Xi Jinping, a Chinese official who is expected to become president
in March.

Bloomberg has confirmed that hackers had made attempts but said that ''no
computer systems or computers were compromised.''

The timing of the attacks on The New York Times coincided with the reporting for
an investigation, published online on Oct. 25, that found that the relatives of
Wen Jiabao, China's prime minister, had accumulated a fortune worth several
billion dollars through business dealings.

Security experts hired by The Times to detect and block the computer attacks
found digital evidence that Chinese hackers, using methods that some consultants
have associated with the Chinese military in the past, breached The Times's
network.

The Associated Press reported Thursday that officials in the Obama
administration were considering more assertive action against Beijing to stop
Chinese computer espionage campaigns.

The Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, said Thursday a global effort was
needed o establish ''rules of the road'' for cyber activity. In her final
meeting with reporters at the State Department, Mrs. Clinton addressed a
question about China's efforts to infiltrate computer systems at The New York
Times.

''We have seen over the last years an increase in not only the hacking attempts
on government institutions but also non-governmental ones,'' Mrs. Clinton said.

The Chinese, she said, ''are not the only people who are hacking us.''

''There is a lot that we are working on that will be deployed in the event that
we don't get some kind of international effort under way,'' Mrs. Clinton added
without elaborating.

The United States has been increasingly vocal about such efforts against
government and private industry. In a November 2011 intelligence report,
government officials specifically accused China and Russia of stealing
intellectual property for economic gain.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/01/technology/wall-street-journal-reports-attack-
by-china-hackers.html

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            February 1, 2013 Friday

Bank of America Suffers Widespread Outages; Hacking Is Not Suspected

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH, BEN PROTESS and JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 603 words



HIGHLIGHT: Bank of America customers were unable to access their online banking
accounts, mobile payment systems or the company's telephone call centers on
Friday. But it does not appear to be the result of hacking.


Bank of America customers were unable to access their online banking accounts,
mobile payment systems or the company's telephone call centers on Friday.

"We're aware of the issue and are addressing," Mark Pipitone, a Bank of America
spokesman, said in a statement. "We're also working closely with our customers
to help alleviate any concerns."

A customer service representative said that the bank's online and mobile payment
systems had been down since 11 a.m. Eastern time. The customer service telephone
lines were also down Friday morning but were restored hours later. The
representative described the outage as a "whole system failure" and said that
even Bank of America employees were not able to see customers' accounts for
several hours.

A person close to Bank of America said the problem appeared to stem from an
internal breakdown, rather than a cyberattack, but the bank continued to
investigate.

American banks have been hit by a wave of computer attacks in recent months.
Starting last September, intruders have caused intermittent disruptions to the
online banking sites of more than a dozen American banks, including Bank of
America, Citigroup, Wells Fargo, U.S. Bancorp, PNC, Capitol One, Fifth Third
Bank, BB&T and HSBC.

But those earlier attacks caused online banking sites to hiccup or fall offline
for several minutes at a time. The outage at Bank of America lasted for several
more than four hours. Also, this appeared to be the first outage that affected a
bank's telephone lines.

Previous outages, representatives for banks have confirmed, were the result of
DDoS, or distributed denial of service attacks, so named because attackers deny
customer service by directing a large volume of traffic to a site until it falls
offline. There were no breaches of bank accounts and no customers' money was
taken.

Security researchers who have studied those attacks say that the attackers
flooded each site with traffic that was more than 10 orders of magnitude larger
than the amount of traffic that Russia directed at Estonia in a monthlong online
assault in 2007 that nearly crippled the Baltic nation.

They were able to do so by infecting data centers and then using multiple data
centers to fire unprecedented amounts of traffic at each bank simultaneously
until they fell offline. And then firing unprecedented amounts of traffic at
each banking site until it fell offline.

Affected banks have been working closely with each other and with Internet
service providers to conduct forensics on the attacks. Government officials in
the United States have accused Iran of orchestrating the attacks in retaliation
for American computer attacks against Iran and for Western economic sanctions,
but they have offered no proof to back up their claims.

A hacker group calling itself Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters has claimed
responsibility for the attacks in online posts, but deny that they are
affiliated with any particular nation state.

On Friday, Bank of America customers seemed less concerned with the origin of
the outage then when it would be fixed. Several took to online forums and
Twitter to vent.

"Bank of America website and app down going on 4 hours now," tweeted one
customer. Why does this happen so often?"

"I don't always shutdown worldwide, but when I do... I make sure it's on the 1st
of the month when my clients bills are due," another tweeted, half-joking.


     ·    One On One: Andy Greenberg, Author, "This Machine Kills Secrets"
     ·    American Banks Undamaged by Cyberattacks
     ·    Critical Infrastructure Systems Seen as Vulnerable to Attack
     ·    U.S. Banks Again Hit by Wave of Cyberattacks
     ·    The Internet Attack That Wasn't


LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 4, 2013 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Broad Powers Seen for Obama in Cyberstrikes

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1284 words


WASHINGTON -- A secret legal review on the use of America's growing arsenal of
cyberweapons has concluded that President Obama has the broad power to order a
pre-emptive strike if the United States detects credible evidence of a major
digital attack looming from abroad, according to officials involved in the
review.

That decision is among several reached in recent months as the administration
moves, in the next few weeks, to approve the nation's first rules for how the
military can defend, or retaliate, against a major cyberattack. New policies
will also govern how the intelligence agencies can carry out searches of faraway
computer networks for signs of potential attacks on the United States and, if
the president approves, attack adversaries by injecting them with destructive
code -- even if there is no declared war.

The rules will be highly classified, just as those governing drone strikes have
been closely held. John O. Brennan, Mr. Obama's chief counterterrorism adviser
and his nominee to run the Central Intelligence Agency, played a central role in
developing the administration's policies regarding both drones and cyberwarfare,
the two newest and most politically sensitive weapons in the American arsenal.

Cyberweaponry is the newest and perhaps most complex arms race under way. The
Pentagon has created a new Cyber Command, and computer network warfare is one of
the few parts of the military budget that is expected to grow. Officials said
that the new cyberpolicies had been guided by a decade of evolution in
counterterrorism policy, particularly on the division of authority between the
military and the intelligence agencies in deploying cyberweapons. Officials
spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to talk on the
record.

Under current rules, the military can openly carry out counterterrorism missions
in nations where the United States operates under the rules of war, like
Afghanistan. But the intelligence agencies have the authority to carry out
clandestine drone strikes and commando raids in places like Pakistan and Yemen,
which are not declared war zones. The results have provoked wide protests.

Mr. Obama is known to have approved the use of cyberweapons only once, early in
his presidency, when he ordered an escalating series of cyberattacks against
Iran's nuclear enrichment facilities. The operation was code-named Olympic
Games, and while it began inside the Pentagon under President George W. Bush, it
was quickly taken over by the National Security Agency, the largest of the
intelligence agencies, under the president's authority to conduct covert action.

As the process of defining the rules of engagement began more than a year ago,
one senior administration official emphasized that the United States had
restrained its use of cyberweapons. ''There are levels of cyberwarfare that are
far more aggressive than anything that has been used or recommended to be
done,'' the official said.

The attacks on Iran illustrated that a nation's infrastructure can be destroyed
without bombing it or sending in saboteurs.

While many potential targets are military, a country's power grids, financial
systems and communications networks can also be crippled. Even more complex,
nonstate actors, like terrorists or criminal groups, can mount attacks, and it
is often difficult to tell who is responsible. Some critics have said the
cyberthreat is being exaggerated by contractors and consultants who see billions
in potential earnings.

One senior American official said that officials quickly determined that the
cyberweapons were so powerful that -- like nuclear weapons -- they should be
unleashed only on the direct orders of the commander in chief.

A possible exception would be in cases of narrowly targeted tactical strikes by
the military, like turning off an air defense system during a conventional
strike against an adversary.

''There are very, very few instances in cyberoperations in which the decision
will be made at a level below the president,'' the official said. That means the
administration has ruled out the use of ''automatic'' retaliation if a
cyberattack on America's infrastructure is detected, even if the virus is
traveling at network speeds.

While the rules have been in development for more than two years, they are
coming out at a time of greatly increased cyberattacks on American companies and
critical infrastructure. The Department of Homeland Security recently announced
that an American power station, which it did not name, was crippled for weeks by
cyberattacks. The New York Times reported last week that it had been struck, for
more than four months, by a cyberattack emanating from China. The Wall Street
Journal and The Washington Post have reported similar attacks on their systems.

''While this is all described in neutral terms -- what are we going to do about
cyberattacks -- the underlying question is, 'What are we going to do about
China?' '' said Richard Falkenrath, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign
Relations. ''There's a lot of signaling going on between the two countries on
this subject.''

International law allows any nation to defend itself from threats, and the
United States has applied that concept to conduct pre-emptive attacks.

Pre-emption always has been a disputed legal concept. Most recently former Mr.
Bush made it a central justification for the invasion of Iraq in 2003, based on
faulty intelligence about that country's weapons of mass destruction.
Pre-emption in the context of cyberwar raises a potentially bigger quandary,
because a country hit by a pre-emptive cyberstrike could easily claim that it
was innocent, undermining the justification for the attack. ''It would be very
hard to provide evidence to the world that you hit some deadly dangerous
computer code,'' one senior official said.

The implications of pre-emption in cyberwar were specifically analyzed at length
in writing the new rules. One major issue involved in the administration's
review, according to one official involved, was defining ''what constitutes
reasonable and proportionate force'' in halting or retaliating against a
cyberattack.

During the attacks on Iran's facilities, which the United States never
acknowledged, Mr. Obama insisted that cyberweapons be targeted narrowly, so that
they did not affect hospitals or power supplies. Mr. Obama frequently voiced
concerns that America's use of cyberweapons could be used by others as
justification for attacks on the United States. The American effort was exposed
when the cyberweapon leaked out of the Iranian enrichment center that was
attacked, and the ''Stuxnet'' code replicated millions of times on the Internet.

Under the new guidelines, the Pentagon would not be involved in defending
against ordinary cyberattacks on American companies or individuals, even though
it has the largest array of cybertools. Domestically, that responsibility falls
to the Department of Homeland Security, and investigations of cyberattacks or
theft are carried out by the F.B.I.

But the military, barred from actions within the United States without a
presidential order, would become involved in cases of a major cyberattack within
the United States. To maintain ambiguity in an adversary's mind, officials have
kept secret what that threshold would be; so far, Defense Secretary Leon E.
Panetta has only described the ''red line'' in the vaguest of terms -- as a ''
cyber 9/11.''

The Obama administration has urged stronger firewalls and other systems to
provide a first line of defense, and then ''resiliency'' in the face of
cyberattacks. It failed to get Congress to pass cybersecurity legislation that
would have allowed the government to mandate standards.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/04/us/broad-powers-seen-for-obama-in-cyberstrikes
.html

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            February 4, 2013 Monday

Energy Department Is the Latest Victim of an Online Attack

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 781 words



HIGHLIGHT: The attack, which compromised the personal data of several hundred
employees, is the latest in a string of major online attacks to surface in the
last week.


 The Energy Department was hit by an online attack last month that compromised
the personal data of several hundred employees.

In an e-mail sent to employees Friday evening, the agency confirmed that hackers
penetrated computers and servers at the agency's Washington headquarters and
stole the personal information of hundreds of employees and contractors. The
agency said it was working with federal authorities to investigate the attack.
It said that, based on its findings, "no classified data was compromised."

The attack on the Energy Department is the latest in a string of major attacks
to surface in the last week. Last week, after The New York Times reported that
Chinese hackers had attacked its computers and stolen employee passwords, The
Wall Street Journal said it had also been attacked. The Washington Post was also
attacked by Chinese hackers last year, according to people with knowledge of The
Post's investigation. And on Friday, Twitter announced that a group of
sophisticated hackers had penetrated its systems, possibly stealing the personal
information of 250,000 users.

"We're seeing a widespread colonization of significant U.S. infrastructure,"
said Tom Kellermann, a vice president for cybersecurity at TrendMicro, a
Tokyo-based security company. "The level of organization and premeditation
behind these attacks is really unprecedented."

William Gibbons, an Energy Department spokesman, did not say whether the agency
had determined who was behind the attack.

A person close to the investigation said the attack was unrelated to a separate
incident last January when Anonymous, the loose hacking collective, dumped what
appeared to be sensitive information from the Energy Department on Pastebin, a
Web site frequently used by hackers. In that case, the data turned out to be
more than two years old.

A former Energy Department security employee told The Washington Free Beacon
Monday morning that the agency made for an easy target.

"It's a continuing story of negligence," Ed McCallum, a former Energy Department
security official, told the Free Beacon. Mr. McCallum said that the agency
continued to have security issues despite the fact that it manages the most
"sophisticated military and intelligence technology the country owns."

Here is the e-mail that the Energy Department sent to its employees:

The Department of Energy (DOE) has just confirmed a recent cyber incident that
occurred in mid-January which targeted the Headquarters' network and resulted in
the unauthorized disclosure of employee and contractor Personally Identifiable
Information (PII).

The Department is strongly committed to protecting the integrity of each
employee's PII and takes any cyber incident very seriously. The Department's
Cybersecurity Team, the Office of Health, Safety and Security and the Inspector
General's office are working with federal law enforcement to promptly gather
detailed information on the nature and scope of the incident and assess the
potential impacts to DOE staff and contractors. Based on the findings of this
investigation, no classified data was compromised.

We believe several hundred DOE employees' and contractors' PII may have been
affected. As individual affected employees are identified, they will be notified
and offered assistance on steps they can take to protect themselves from
potential identity theft.

Once the full nature and extent of this incident is known, the Department will
implement a full remediation plan. As more specific information is gathered
regarding affected employees and contractors, the Department will make further
notifications.

The Department is also leading an aggressive effort to reduce the likelihood of
these events occurring again. These efforts include leveraging the combined
expertise and capabilities of the Department's Joint Cybersecurity Coordination
Center to address this incident, increasing monitoring across all of the
Department's networks and deploying specialized defense tools to protect
sensitive assets.

Cybersecurity is a shared responsibility, and we all play an important role in
maintaining the integrity and security of our networks. To help minimize impacts
and reduce any potential risks, please keep the following best practices in
mind:

* Encrypt all files and emails containing PII or sensitive information,
including files stored on hard drives or on the shared network.
* Do not store or email non-government related PII on DOE network computers


     ·    Critical Infrastructure Systems Seen as Vulnerable to Attack
     ·    Security Firm Discovers Cyber-Spy Campaign
     ·    Serious Flaw in Java Software Is Found, Then Patched
     ·    The Internet Attack That Wasn't
     ·    Online Voter Registration Is Called Vulnerable to Hackers


LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            February 4, 2013 Monday

Daily Report: Broad Powers Seen for Obama in Cyberstrike

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 352 words



HIGHLIGHT: A secret legal review on the use of America's growing arsenal of
cyberweapons has concluded that President Obama has the broad power to order a
pre-emptive strike if the United States detects credible evidence of a major
digital attack looming from abroad, according to officials involved in the
review, report David E. Sanger and Thom Shanker in Monday's New York Times.


A secret legal review on the use of America's growing arsenal of cyberweapons
has concluded that President Obama has the broad power to order a pre-emptive
strike if the United States detects credible evidence of a major digital attack
looming from abroad, according to officials involved in the review, report David
E. Sanger and Thom Shanker in Monday's New York Times.

That decision is among several reached in recent months as the administration
moves, in the next few weeks, to approve the nation's first rules for how the
military can defend, or retaliate, against a major cyberattack. New policies
will also govern how the intelligence agencies can carry out searches of faraway
computer networks for signs of potential attacks on the United States and, if
the president approves, attack adversaries by injecting them with destructive
code - even if there is no declared war.

The rules will be highly classified, just as those governing drone strikes have
been closely held. John O. Brennan, Mr. Obama's chief counterterrorism adviser
and his nominee to run the Central Intelligence Agency, played a central role in
developing the administration's policies regarding both drones and cyberwarfare,
the two newest and most politically sensitive weapons in the American arsenal.

Cyberweaponry is the newest and perhaps most complex arms race under way among
large and small powers. The Pentagon has created a new Cyber Command, and
computer network warfare is one of the few parts of the military budget that is
expected to grow despite looming spending cuts. Officials said that the new
cyberpolicies had been guided by a decade of evolution in counterterrorism
policy, particularly on the division of authority between the military and the
intelligence agencies in deploying cyberweapons.

Officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to
talk on the record.


     ·    Disruptions: Twitter's Uneasy Role in Guarding the Truth
     ·    Daily Report: Joining the Party, Not Crashing It
     ·    Online, Colorado Suspect Seems a Phantom
     ·    Daily Report: Researchers Find Clues in Flame Virus
     ·    For Rent: The New Microsoft Office


LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                            February 4, 2013 Monday

Bruno Mars, Rihanna and Sting to Perform Together at Grammys

BYLINE: LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 216 words



HIGHLIGHT: The trio will perform together during Sunday's awards show, the
Recording Academy announced Monday.


To the ever-growing list of artists already scheduled to perform at the Grammy
Awards on Sunday, add this unlikely combination: Bruno Mars, Rihanna and Sting.
The trio will perform together during the show, the Recording Academy announced
Monday, as will Kelly Clarkson. All but Sting also are nominees for awards this
year.

In another unusual pairing, the show will also have Sir Elton John and the
21-year-old British singer-songwriter Ed Sheeran performing together in a live
setting for the first time. The Black Keys, Fun., the Lumineers and Frank Ocean
will also be making their debuts as Grammy performers on the Sunday night
broadcast on CBS.

The ranks of Grammy presenters is also swelling, with Prince, Beyoncé, Jennifer
Hudson and Jennifer Lopez now confirmed in that role. They join a list that also
includes Carly Rae Jepsen and Katy Perry from the pop world; the country music
stars Faith Hill, Tim McGraw and Keith Urban; and two stars of hit television
series, Kaley Cuoco and Neil Patrick Harris.


     ·    The Black Keys, Fun. and Mumford & Sons to Perform at Grammys
     ·    All-Star Lineup to Honor Springsteen at Benefit Concert
     ·    Cyber Furor Over Chris Brown's Appearance at Grammys
     ·    Coldplay, Rihanna and McCartney to Perform at Grammys
     ·    Jack White and Carrie Underwood Join Lineup of Grammy Performers


LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                            February 5, 2013 Tuesday

Our Vision: Make Sales to End Sweatshops

BYLINE: ADRIANA HERRERA

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 870 words



HIGHLIGHT: The company's Web site features an application called Wear This, Not
That. It highlights side-by-side comparisons of mainstream brands and Fashioning
Change alternatives.


There have been a lot of grim stories lately involving the manufacture of
clothing.

Over the last few months, there have been factory fires in Bangledesh that have
taken the lives of hundreds of men and women who endured depressing sweatshop
environments in order to feed their families. These factories wereproducing
products for global brands like Wal-Mart, Disney, and Enyce. And a recent study
by Greenpeace International concluded that Calvin Klein, GAP, Zara, Diesel, and
other top apparel brands produce clothes that contain high levels of dangerous
chemicals.

Does it make sense that these and other brands are allowed to make products that
expose people throughout their supply chains -- cotton farmers to garment
workers to consumers -- to cancer-causing and endocrine-disrupting agents that
can cause birth defects, learning disorders, and even death? If clothing were
food, wouldn't there be a recall?

In most cases, these brands have little to fear in the way of regulation. What
they do fear is a loss of sales - and that is where my start-up, Fashioning
Change, hopes to play a role. We have built a marketplace that offers stylish,
money-saving, safe, sustainable, and sweatshop-free alternatives. Our goal is to
support manufacturers that are doing things right - and to leave the big brands
no option but to adopt authentic practices that protect health, the Earth, and
human rights. That's our plan, any way.

When we share that plan with venture capitalists, we are often told, "but
shoppers won't pay more for products that are green or socially responsible."
And we don't think they should have to. That's why, in addition to showcasing
socially responsible brands, we are using our marketplace to demonstrate that
shopping "green" doesn't have to mean spending more or compromising on style and
quality.

To prove our point, we built a feature on our Web site that we call Wear This,
Not That (see photo above). Here's how it works: We look for styles that are
trending within mainstream brands, and then we review the Fashioning Change
catalog for items that are comparable in price and style. When we find a match,
we feature a side-by-side comparison of the Fashioning Change alternative to the
mainstream product. Every comparison presents the fashion aesthetics and the
price and also highlights the brand's manufacturing process. Here's an example,
Wear This, Not That: Reuse Jeans vs Guess.

We did an analysis comparing more than 100 products from 27 mainstream brands to
the Fashioning Change equivalent, and the data showed that shoppers can save an
average of 27 percent with our alternatives. From Black Friday through Cyber
Monday, we calculated that shoppers buying through Fashioning Change saved
$25,509.84 -- the difference between our retail price and what these shoppers
would have spent on the mainstream option.

All of this may sound simple but making it happen isn't easy, especially when
you don't have a huge budget to spend on marketing. To help us connect with each
member of our growing audience, we built a targeted e-mail system that reviews
shared preferences and site behavior to help us understand what e-mail content
is relevant for each person. We use that data to share relevant information with
each person who signs up for Fashioning Change. Every day, we work to increase
our relevancy to each person so that we can make more sales while reducing
pollution and the use of sweatshops.

So far, all of the money we make goes back into building Fashioning Change. My
co-founder Kevin and I have forgone salaries until we can get Fashioning Change
to profitability (something we look forward to in the near future). In order to
live without a salary, I gave up my two-bedroom apartment, sold all of my
furniture, and moved into my parent's guest room. I lived there for more than a
year on savings while getting the company started. Now I split time between the
Fashioning Change house in Santa Monica and my parent's house in San Diego. (I
also gave up health insurance, which I will discuss in my next post.)

We see fashion as just the beginning for us. We have built a Web platform that
will eventually allow us to provide access to authentic, great-looking,
money-saving, sustainable, and sweatshop-free alternatives to almost everything
that goes on (or in) our bodies, in our homes, or into our communities: clothes,
food, detergents, cars, bedding, toothpaste, etc. While we could start adding
all different types of products, I believe our success will lie in attacking one
vertical at a time. We will see how quickly our vision gains momentum.

Some of the older investors we meet seem skeptical that we can create this mix
of business and ethics. We're looking forward to proving them wrong.

Questions? Thoughts? Lets connect, talk shop, and build some original and
meaningful start-ups in the process. You can leave a comment below, or e-mail me
at adriana@fashioningchange.com You can also find me on Twitter at
@adriana_herrera.


     ·    Introducing Fashioning Change: Wear This, Not That
     ·    This Week in Small Business: Free Furniture!
     ·    With This Start-Up, Your Favorite Novel Never Has to End
     ·    This Week in Small Business: Leave the Building
     ·    Why American Giant Re-Designed Its Web Site


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 7, 2013 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

United States Announces New Iran Sanctions

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 579 words


The United States blacklisted Iran's state broadcasting authority,
Internet-policing agencies and a major electronics producer on Wednesday, an
action that widened the American sanctions effort to pressure the Iranian
government over not only its disputed nuclear program but also over the stifling
of domestic dissent and access to information.

A statement by the Treasury Department also announced the formal start of
tightened restrictions, under a law passed last year, meant to severely inhibit
Iran's already weakened ability to repatriate earnings from the sale of oil, its
most important export.

David S. Cohen, the Treasury undersecretary for terrorism and financial
intelligence, who oversees the sanctions effort, said the actions were meant to
''intensify the economic pressure against the Iranian regime.''

He said, ''We will also target those in Iran who are responsible for human
rights abuses, especially those who deny the Iranian people their basic freedoms
of expression, assembly and speech.''

The new sanctions targeted Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting, which is
responsible for broadcast policy in Iran and oversees production at Iranian
television and radio channels. Its director, Ezzatollah Zarghami, was included
in the action.

Also targeted were the Iranian Cyber Police, which the Treasury Department
described as an authority created three years ago to filter Web sites, monitor
Internet behavior and hack into e-mail accounts of Iranians deemed to be
subversive; and the Communications Regulatory Authority, which the Treasury
Department described as an enforcer of Internet filtering and the blocking of
Web sites deemed objectionable by the Iranian government.

In addition, the Treasury targeted Iran Electronics Industries, a producer of
electronic systems and products, which the Treasury said was responsible for
''goods and services related to jamming, monitoring and eavesdropping.''

Under American sanctions laws, any United States property held by blacklisted
companies and individuals is impounded, and they are prohibited from engaging in
any transactions with American citizens.

Iran has been hurt by the accumulation of economic sanctions over the nuclear
program, which the Iranians contend is for peaceful purposes despite suspicions
by others, notably the United States, European Union and Israel, that the
program is intended to give Iran the ability to make nuclear weapons. Talks on
resolving the dispute, which have been stalled for more than six months, are set
to resume in Kazakhstan on Feb. 26.

Iranian rights activists have a mixed view on the sanctions, which have halved
Iran's oil exports, frozen the country out of the international banking system
and caused a steep slide in the value of Iran's currency, the rial. Some
activists worry that the consequences are hurting ordinary Iranians more than
the country's leaders.

''While we are very much concerned about comprehensive economic sanctions that
impact the livelihoods and well-being of average Iranian citizens, we welcome
targeted sanctions against human rights violators and entities engaged in
implementing repressive policies and censorship,'' said Hadi Ghaemi, the
executive director of the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran, a New
York-based advocacy group. ''In particular, the sanctions against IRIB are
important because this entity is a leading institution in restricting flow of
information and is directly implicated in human rights abuses.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/07/world/middleeast/united-states-announces-new-i
ran-sanctions.html

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 10, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 682 words


8 P.M. (CBS) THE 55TH ANNUAL GRAMMY AWARDS L L Cool J returns as host of this
ceremony honoring artists in country, hip-hop, jazz, pop and rock and broadcast
live from the Staples Center in Los Angeles. The group Fun. (including Nate
Ruess, above left, with Jack Antonoff); Jay-Z; Mumford & Sons; Frank Ocean; and
Kanye West lead the pack with six nominations each. Miguel and the Black Keys
have five. Zac Brown, Brittany Howard of the Alabama Shakes, Elton John, Mumford
& Sons and Mavis Staples will pay tribute to Levon Helm, who died in April, with
a performance directed by T Bone Burnett. Dr. John, the Preservation Hall Jazz
Band, the Black Keys, Stanley Clarke, Chick Corea and Kenny Garrett will honor
Dave Brubeck, who died in December. Justin Timberlake, Alicia Keys, Maroon 5,
Frank Ocean, Carly Rae Jepsen, Katy Perry, Rihanna, Bruno Mars, Sting, Taylor
Swift, the Lumineers, Carrie Underwood and Jack White are expected to perform.
Red carpet coverage begins at 5 on E! and TV Guide.

10 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK Representatives Tom Cole, Republican of Oklahoma, and
Keith Ellison, Democrat of Minnesota, and Stephanie Cutter, the deputy manager
of the Obama campaign, discuss the president's State of the Union address on
Tuesday and his second-term agenda.

10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY Representative Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of
California, and Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, discuss the State of
the Union address, the deficit and foreign policy.

10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION The topic is ''The New War on Terror: Drones &
Cyber Attacks.'' The guests are Senators Lindsey Graham, Republican of South
Carolina, and Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, and Representative Mike
Rogers, Republican of Michigan.

10:30 A.M. (NBC) MEET THE PRESS Representative Eric Cantor, Republican of
Virginia, discusses the direction of the Republican Party as it reshapes its
message to voters. Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, talks about
drone policy.

8 P.M. (BBC America) THE BAFTA FILM AWARDS 2013 ''Lincoln,'' directed by Steven
Spielberg and starring Daniel Day-Lewis, tops the list with 10 nominations for
the British Academy of Film and Television Arts awards, broadcast from the Royal
Opera House in London and hosted by Stephen Fry.

8 P.M. (Flix) THE LAST DAYS OF DISCO (1998) The director Whit Stillman continues
to plumb the malaise of the young and privileged -- and concludes the trilogy
that includes ''Metropolitan'' and ''Barcelona'' -- in this tale about the New
York nightclub scene of the early 1980s and two young denizens, the confident
Charlotte (Kate Beckinsale) and her less secure college chum Alice (Chloë
Sevigny, below right, with Ms. Beckinsale). ''We look really good tonight,''
Charlotte tells Alice. ''I'm sure we're going to get in.'' ''Humorously and
fondly, with an entertaining supply of what he has called 'prosaic license,' Mr.
Stillman again displays a pitch-perfect ear for both the cattiness and the
camaraderie that bind his characters into collective friendship,'' Janet Maslin
wrote in The New York Times. ''Weaving together the disco backdrop (clearly a
labor of love) with more sharp-edged material about college graduates finding
their first footing in New York and learning to cook with Campbell's mushroom
soup, he creates a bright panorama of shrewd young strivers.'' ''Xanadu''
(1980), the roller-skating disco fantasy starring Olivia Newton-John and Gene
Kelly, follows at 10.

9 P.M. (13, 49) DOWNTON ABBEY Robert (Hugh Bonneville) and Matthew (Dan Stevens)
quarrel about the future of the estate, while Tom (Allen Leech) insists on
christening baby Sybil in the Roman Catholic Church.

9 P.M. (HBO) GIRLS Hannah (Lena Dunham) is surprised by her attraction to a
handsome 42-year-old doctor (Patrick Wilson) and the trappings of his
conventionally successful, grown-up life. In ''Enlightened,'' at 9:30, Amy
(Laura Dern), Tyler (Mike White) and Dougie (Timm Sharp) try to dig up dirt on
Charles Szidon (James Rebhorn), the chief executive of Abaddon, by befriending
Eileen (Molly Shannon), his assistant. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

URL:

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                            February 11, 2013 Monday

Builder of China's 'Great Firewall' Finds His Holiday Greetings Spurned

BYLINE: DIDI KIRSTEN TATLOW

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 750 words



HIGHLIGHT: When Fang Binxing, a major architect of China's system of Internet
censorship, sent netizens New Year's greetings over the weekend, many told him
to "go to hell."


BEIJING -  Fang Binxing is known here as the "Father of the Wall," that is, the
Great Firewall - the sprawling system of technological controls in China that
has created a parallel online world, or "Chinternet," where global favorites
such as YouTube, Twitter and Facebook are blocked.

In fact, it's fair to say that Mr. Fang is unpopular among quite a few of
China's hundreds of millions of netizens, though he does have his admirers,
including among those who support the government's large-scale efforts to
"weiwen," or maintain stability.

Just how unpopular he is was demonstrated again over the weekend when his New
Year's microblog greeting was promptly bombarded with messages telling him to
"go to hell," according to netizens (it wasn't possible to read each message,
but Mr. Fang's post had been forwarded over 23,000 times at the time of
writing).

Pithily, in one word repeated again and again, the critics said: "gun," or
"[#x6eda]." (The word literally means "roll," or, in an officially accepted
slang variation, "beat it.")

"Fang Binxing sends everyone New Year's greetings! May all be joyful and
successful in the Year of the Snake!" he posted on his Sina Weibo, or microblog,
account, on Saturday, continuing with salutations to his university (he is the
president of the University of Posts and Telecommunications in Beijing) and a
poem.

"Yesterday, a university president wished everyone Happy New Year on his
microblog account and the result was he got over 10,000 forwards saying 'go to
hell,' " He Bing, deputy director of the School of Law at the China University
of Political Science and Law, posted to his nearly 395,000 followers on Sina
Weibo.

"As long as people like this continue to be the presidents of universities
there's no hope for China," Mr. He's post continued.  By Tuesday afternoon it
had been forwarded about 3,700 times.

Mr. Fang acknowledged in an interview in 2011 that he had designed major parts
of the Great Firewall. He is a lightning rod for protest among the
Internet-savvy who want broader freedom of speech.

He's had eggs and a shoe thrown at him, and in 2011 had to close his newly
opened microblog after thousands of users left comments within hours - almost
all of them critical, the populist newspaper Global Times noted.

"I regard the dirty abuse as a sacrifice for my country," the newspaper quoted
Mr. Fang as saying.

Attention is growing around the world on how the Chinese state uses the
Internet, with The Washington Post reporting today on a new intelligence
assessment in the United States. The newspaper writes that according to a
National Intelligence Estimate, the United States is the target of "a massive,
sustained cyber-espionage campaign" and that China is "the country most
aggressively seeking to penetrate the computer systems of American businesses
and institutions to gain access to data that could be used for economic gain."

The Post is one of a number of U.S. news organizations, including The New York
Times, that recently reported having been subjected to cyberattacks believed to
have Chinese origins.  (The Times has been blocked in China since running a
story last year about wealth accumulated by the family of the outgoing prime
minister, Wen Jiabao.)

Back in Beijing, Mr. Fang hasn't posted anything since his New Year greeting, so
it isn't clear how he feels about the reaction to it. Meanwhile, word continues
to circulate that more "upgrades," or tightening, of the Great Firewall lie
ahead.

In December, several overseas-based companies that provide VPNs to both
non-Chinese and Chinese users in the country (a VPN, or virtual private network,
enables users to get around the Chinternet, or "cross the Wall" as it's known
here, by logging on via overseas servers) said their services had been
interrupted.

In what some read as a warning, Mr. Fang appeared to tell Global Times that
overseas-based companies offering VPNs to people in China must register with the
Ministry of Industry and Information Technology.

"I haven't heard that any foreign companies have registered," he said.
Unregistered VPN service providers are not protected by Chinese law and any
company running a VPN business should realize it has a responsibility to
register, he said, according to Global Times.


     ·    Adding More Bricks to the Great Firewall of China
     ·    Anger in New Zealand Over Leaky Government Computers
     ·    China's Expulsion of Journalist Has Parallels in Thailand
     ·    Is China Retaliating Against Western Journalists?
     ·    The One-Two Punch of Chinese Web Censorship


LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (After Deadline)

                           February 12, 2013 Tuesday

When Spell-Check Can't Help

BYLINE: PHILIP B. CORBETT

SECTION: TIMESTOPICS

LENGTH: 1236 words



HIGHLIGHT: My recent diatribes about relative pronouns, agreement and the perils
of "like" have not exhausted the menu of favorite grammar gaffes. Danglers and
the subjunctive will get their turn soon. But for this week, I'll shift from
grammar to word use, with the latest in our file of sound-alike mix-ups.


 [PLEASE NOTE: After Deadline will be on vacation for two weeks and will return
on Tuesday, March 5.]

My recent diatribes about relative pronouns, agreement and the perils of "like"
have not exhausted the menu of favorite grammar gaffes. Danglers and the
subjunctive will get their turn soon. But for this week, I'll shift from grammar
to word use, with the latest in our file of sound-alike mix-ups.

Fortunately many of these recent lapses were caught and fixed online or for
later print editions - but not before they caused groans or chuckles among
sharp-eyed readers and colleagues. Put them on your better-check-twice list.

It's easy to make fun of Ryan Seacrest - for his ubiquity on the show business
landscape, for his over-weaning ambition, for his role in unleashing the
Kardashian clan on America and for his relentless pursuit of celebrities as they
head into award shows (captured most memorably a few years ago when he was shown
on camera practically chasing Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie down the red carpet
as they seemed determined to avoid him and his E! camera crew).

"Over-weaning" might describe an overly aggressive effort to shift babies or
young animals off mother's milk. Here, we meant "overweening." (Spell-check
should have helped on this one, but I think the hyphen in the original confused
it.)

Studying the python lifestyle is critical to success. Hunters must know that the
best time to find one is the morning after the temperature drops into the 60s or
below. The snakes surface to warm up in the sun. They stay close to water, so
canals and levies are a good bet. They like rock piles.

We get this wrong surprisingly often. "Levies" are taxes; we meant "levees."

This is pure speculation but the singer/actor might have chosen the suit - from
Mr. Ford's spring line, its fit similar to those he made for the latest Bond
film - because it indirectly complimented his forthcoming album, "The 20/20
Experience."

We meant "complemented"; it was later fixed.

But Wednesday's hearing distinguished itself from the usual mandatory civic
gathering. "In most instances, a public hearing is conducted to illicit
commentary, both pro and con," Mr. Freeman said in a telephone interview. "There
would be few objections to better service."

"Illicit" is an adjective meaning "improper." We wanted the verb "elicit."

So far, defense budgets have not been squeezed by the Medicare vice.

In American English, the spelling for the tool is "vise," not "vice."

"The principle function of the state and its officials is to protect its
citizens," said Judge Miguel Angel Gálvez before finding that there was
sufficient evidence to try Mr. Rios Montt, 86, and another former general, José
Mauricio Rodríguez Sánchez.

This is the one spelled "principal."

More often then not the spark was lost in the transition from sketch to
masterwork, and the names of artists whose best work remained unvalued and
invisible faded from history.

Just a typo, perhaps, but one that slips through surprisingly often. Make it
"than."

Bill Pullman is Dale Gilchrist, the reserved but kindly president, who has an
adoring second wife, Emily (Jenna Elfman), and four children from his first
marriage who get into hairbrained scrapes - particularly Skip (Josh Gad).

Here's one where spell-check should have helped; did we ignore its warning? We
meant "harebrained."


 In a Word

This week's grab bag of grammar, style and other missteps, compiled with help
from colleagues and readers.

Almost one million of these $35 machines have shipped since last February,
capturing the imaginations of educators, hobbyists and tinkerers around the
world.

This intransitive use of "shipped" has a flavor of jargon. Better to say "have
been sold" or "have been ordered" or even "have been shipped to stores."

The Pentagon has created a new Cyber Command, and computer network warfare is
one of the few parts of the military budget that is expected to grow.

Recorded announcement; let's hear it from The Times's stylebook this time:

[N]ote the plural verb in a construction like She is one of the people who love
the Yankees. The test is to reverse the sentence: Of the people who love the
Yankees, she is one.

In 2011, he encouraged Jewish voters in Brooklyn and Queens to vote for a
Republican, Bob Turner, instead of a Democrat, David I. Weprin, in order to send
a message to President Obama, whom he felt was not supportive enough of Israel.
Mr. Turner won, and Mr. Koch believed his strategy had worked.

"Who," not "whom"; it's the subject of "was."

Three centuries after Columbus is said to have made landfall in the Out Islands
in 1492, the indigenous people had been either wiped out or shipped to
Hispaniola, and the largely deserted land was settled by British loyalists and
their slaves, whose ancestors make up most of the Bahamas' residents.

We meant "descendants."

Mr. Marx acknowledged to me that the cost might well rise to $340 or $350
million.

Make it "$340 million or $350 million."

Mr. Neal, a G.E.D. student, was shot, as was Mr. Berry and a  maintenance worker
whom the authorities described as a bystander.

Make it "as were Mr. Berry and a maintenance worker."

Mass kidnappings, too, are not uncommon, either for ransom, robbery, the result
of mistaken identity or to terrorize rivals.

Delete "either," which ordinarily cannot be followed by more than two choices,
and make the four possible goals parallel.

"It was an underdog's victory, just like the story of Esther and Mordechai," he
said, referencing the biblical protagonists.

This use of "reference" as a verb is unnecessary jargon; say "referring to" or
"alluding to."

After months of occupation by Islamist fighters, the people of Timbuktu recalled
surviving the loss of tranquility.

Per the stylebook, it is "tranquillity," with two L's.

LOS ANGELES - Cardinal Roger M. Mahony, who retired less than two years ago as
the leader of the nation's largest Roman Catholic archdiocese, was removed from
all public duties by his successor, Archbishop José H. Gomez, as the church
complied with a court order to release thousands of pages of internal documents
that show how the cardinal shielded priests who sexually abused children.

When? A news lead like this should have a time element; this one didn't.

"I was forced into a difficult decision: Should I go out of business or should I
cheat?," he wrote.

No comma after the question mark.

The ship, which is based in Brooklyn and brings cars and trucks to St. Marc,
Haiti, was anchored off Staten Island between the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge and
the ferry terminal, waiting out a patch of bad weather, said an official of
Devon Shipping, Inc, which owns the vessel.

Since we were not writing from Haiti, this should be "takes," not "brings."

Both are wonderful, particularly if you convince Mr. Wijesinghe, who waits
tables in a sarong, that you can handle some spice.

The stylebook prefers "waits on tables."

Whether feral or domestic, cats are tuned to the hunt, and when they see
something flutter, they cannot help but pounce.

From the stylebook:

help (v.). Use the construction help wondering, as in He cannot help wondering.
Not He cannot help but wonder.

In the fall of 2008, Nicole was attending a one-year bible college and working
at an ice-cream shop.

Uppercase Bible when, as here, it refers to Scripture.


     ·    Trouble With 'Like'
     ·    Number Trouble
     ·    Favorite Grammar Gaffes
     ·    Words We Love Too Much
     ·    Parallel Problems


LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 13, 2013 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Obama's 2013 State of the Union Address

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; TEXT; Pg.

LENGTH: 6294 words


The following is the text as prepared for delivery of President Obama's State of
the Union Address, as provided by the White House:

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Members of Congress, fellow
citizens:

Fifty-one years ago, John F. Kennedy declared to this Chamber that ''the
Constitution makes us not rivals for power but partners for progress...It is my
task,'' he said, ''to report the State of the Union -- to improve it is the task
of us all.''

Tonight, thanks to the grit and determination of the American people, there is
much progress to report. After a decade of grinding war, our brave men and women
in uniform are coming home. After years of grueling recession, our businesses
have created over six million new jobs. We buy more American cars than we have
in five years, and less foreign oil than we have in twenty. Our housing market
is healing, our stock market is rebounding, and consumers, patients, and
homeowners enjoy stronger protections than ever before.

Together, we have cleared away the rubble of crisis, and can say with renewed
confidence that the state of our union is stronger.

But we gather here knowing that there are millions of Americans whose hard work
and dedication have not yet been rewarded. Our economy is adding jobs -- but too
many people still can't find full-time employment. Corporate profits have
rocketed to all-time highs -- but for more than a decade, wages and incomes have
barely budged.

It is our generation's task, then, to reignite the true engine of America's
economic growth -- a rising, thriving middle class.

It is our unfinished task to restore the basic bargain that built this country
-- the idea that if you work hard and meet your responsibilities, you can get
ahead, no matter where you come from, what you look like, or who you love.

It is our unfinished task to make sure that this government works on behalf of
the many, and not just the few; that it encourages free enterprise, rewards
individual initiative, and opens the doors of opportunity to every child across
this great nation.

The American people don't expect government to solve every problem. They don't
expect those of us in this chamber to agree on every issue. But they do expect
us to put the nation's interests before party. They do expect us to forge
reasonable compromise where we can. For they know that America moves forward
only when we do so together; and that the responsibility of improving this union
remains the task of us all.

Our work must begin by making some basic decisions about our budget -- decisions
that will have a huge impact on the strength of our recovery.

Over the last few years, both parties have worked together to reduce the deficit
by more than $2.5 trillion -- mostly through spending cuts, but also by raising
tax rates on the wealthiest 1 percent of Americans. As a result, we are more
than halfway towards the goal of $4 trillion in deficit reduction that
economists say we need to stabilize our finances.

Now we need to finish the job. And the question is, how?

In 2011, Congress passed a law saying that if both parties couldn't agree on a
plan to reach our deficit goal, about a trillion dollars' worth of budget cuts
would automatically go into effect this year. These sudden, harsh, arbitrary
cuts would jeopardize our military readiness. They'd devastate priorities like
education, energy, and medical research. They would certainly slow our recovery,
and cost us hundreds of thousands of jobs. That's why Democrats, Republicans,
business leaders, and economists have already said that these cuts, known here
in Washington as ''the sequester,'' are a really bad idea.

Now, some in this Congress have proposed preventing only the defense cuts by
making even bigger cuts to things like education and job training; Medicare and
Social Security benefits.

That idea is even worse. Yes, the biggest driver of our long-term debt is the
rising cost of health care for an aging population. And those of us who care
deeply about programs like Medicare must embrace the need for modest reforms --
otherwise, our retirement programs will crowd out the investments we need for
our children, and jeopardize the promise of a secure retirement for future
generations.

But we can't ask senior citizens and working families to shoulder the entire
burden of deficit reduction while asking nothing more from the wealthiest and
most powerful. We won't grow the middle class simply by shifting the cost of
health care or college onto families that are already struggling, or by forcing
communities to lay off more teachers, cops, and firefighters. Most Americans --
Democrats, Republicans, and Independents -- understand that we can't just cut
our way to prosperity. They know that broad-based economic growth requires a
balanced approach to deficit reduction, with spending cuts and revenue, and with
everybody doing their fair share. And that's the approach I offer tonight.

On Medicare, I'm prepared to enact reforms that will achieve the same amount of
health care savings by the beginning of the next decade as the reforms proposed
by the bipartisan Simpson-Bowles commission. Already, the Affordable Care Act is
helping to slow the growth of health care costs. The reforms I'm proposing go
even further. We'll reduce taxpayer subsidies to prescription drug companies and
ask more from the wealthiest seniors. We'll bring down costs by changing the way
our government pays for Medicare, because our medical bills shouldn't be based
on the number of tests ordered or days spent in the hospital -- they should be
based on the quality of care that our seniors receive. And I am open to
additional reforms from both parties, so long as they don't violate the
guarantee of a secure retirement. Our government shouldn't make promises we
cannot keep -- but we must keep the promises we've already made.

To hit the rest of our deficit reduction target, we should do what leaders in
both parties have already suggested, and save hundreds of billions of dollars by
getting rid of tax loopholes and deductions for the well-off and well-connected.
After all, why would we choose to make deeper cuts to education and Medicare
just to protect special interest tax breaks? How is that fair? How does that
promote growth?

Now is our best chance for bipartisan, comprehensive tax reform that encourages
job creation and helps bring down the deficit. The American people deserve a tax
code that helps small businesses spend less time filling out complicated forms,
and more time expanding and hiring; a tax code that ensures billionaires with
high-powered accountants can't pay a lower rate than their hard-working
secretaries; a tax code that lowers incentives to move jobs overseas, and lowers
tax rates for businesses and manufacturers that create jobs right here in
America. That's what tax reform can deliver. That's what we can do together.

I realize that tax reform and entitlement reform won't be easy. The politics
will be hard for both sides. None of us will get 100 percent of what we want.
But the alternative will cost us jobs, hurt our economy, and visit hardship on
millions of hardworking Americans. So let's set party interests aside, and work
to pass a budget that replaces reckless cuts with smart savings and wise
investments in our future. And let's do it without the brinksmanship that
stresses consumers and scares off investors. The greatest nation on Earth cannot
keep conducting its business by drifting from one manufactured crisis to the
next. Let's agree, right here, right now, to keep the people's government open,
pay our bills on time, and always uphold the full faith and credit of the United
States of America. The American people have worked too hard, for too long,
rebuilding from one crisis to see their elected officials cause another.

Now, most of us agree that a plan to reduce the deficit must be part of our
agenda. But let's be clear: deficit reduction alone is not an economic plan. A
growing economy that creates good, middle-class jobs -- that must be the North
Star that guides our efforts. Every day, we should ask ourselves three questions
as a nation: How do we attract more jobs to our shores? How do we equip our
people with the skills needed to do those jobs? And how do we make sure that
hard work leads to a decent living?

A year and a half ago, I put forward an American Jobs Act that independent
economists said would create more than one million new jobs. I thank the last
Congress for passing some of that agenda, and I urge this Congress to pass the
rest. Tonight, I'll lay out additional proposals that are fully paid for and
fully consistent with the budget framework both parties agreed to just 18 months
ago. Let me repeat -- nothing I'm proposing tonight should increase our deficit
by a single dime. It's not a bigger government we need, but a smarter government
that sets priorities and invests in broad-based growth.

Our first priority is making America a magnet for new jobs and manufacturing.

After shedding jobs for more than 10 years, our manufacturers have added about
500,000 jobs over the past three. Caterpillar is bringing jobs back from Japan.
Ford is bringing jobs back from Mexico. After locating plants in other countries
like China, Intel is opening its most advanced plant right here at home. And
this year, Apple will start making Macs in America again.

There are things we can do, right now, to accelerate this trend. Last year, we
created our first manufacturing innovation institute in Youngstown, Ohio. A
once-shuttered warehouse is now a state-of-the art lab where new workers are
mastering the 3D printing that has the potential to revolutionize the way we
make almost everything. There's no reason this can't happen in other towns. So
tonight, I'm announcing the launch of three more of these manufacturing hubs,
where businesses will partner with the Departments of Defense and Energy to turn
regions left behind by globalization into global centers of high-tech jobs. And
I ask this Congress to help create a network of fifteen of these hubs and
guarantee that the next revolution in manufacturing is Made in America.

If we want to make the best products, we also have to invest in the best ideas.
Every dollar we invested to map the human genome returned $140 to our economy.
Today, our scientists are mapping the human brain to unlock the answers to
Alzheimer's; developing drugs to regenerate damaged organs; devising new
material to make batteries ten times more powerful. Now is not the time to gut
these job-creating investments in science and innovation. Now is the time to
reach a level of research and development not seen since the height of the Space
Race. And today, no area holds more promise than our investments in American
energy.

After years of talking about it, we are finally poised to control our own energy
future. We produce more oil at home than we have in 15 years. We have doubled
the distance our cars will go on a gallon of gas, and the amount of renewable
energy we generate from sources like wind and solar -- with tens of thousands of
good, American jobs to show for it. We produce more natural gas than ever before
-- and nearly everyone's energy bill is lower because of it. And over the last
four years, our emissions of the dangerous carbon pollution that threatens our
planet have actually fallen.

But for the sake of our children and our future, we must do more to combat
climate change. Yes, it's true that no single event makes a trend. But the fact
is, the 12 hottest years on record have all come in the last 15. Heat waves,
droughts, wildfires, and floods -- all are now more frequent and intense. We can
choose to believe that Superstorm Sandy, and the most severe drought in decades,
and the worst wildfires some states have ever seen were all just a freak
coincidence. Or we can choose to believe in the overwhelming judgment of science
-- and act before it's too late.

The good news is, we can make meaningful progress on this issue while driving
strong economic growth. I urge this Congress to pursue a bipartisan,
market-based solution to climate change, like the one John McCain and Joe
Lieberman worked on together a few years ago. But if Congress won't act soon to
protect future generations, I will. I will direct my Cabinet to come up with
executive actions we can take, now and in the future, to reduce pollution,
prepare our communities for the consequences of climate change, and speed the
transition to more sustainable sources of energy.

Four years ago, other countries dominated the clean energy market and the jobs
that came with it. We've begun to change that. Last year, wind energy added
nearly half of all new power capacity in America. So let's generate even more.
Solar energy gets cheaper by the year -- so let's drive costs down even further.
As long as countries like China keep going all-in on clean energy, so must we.

In the meantime, the natural gas boom has led to cleaner power and greater
energy independence. That's why my Administration will keep cutting red tape and
speeding up new oil and gas permits. But I also want to work with this Congress
to encourage the research and technology that helps natural gas burn even
cleaner and protects our air and water.

Indeed, much of our new-found energy is drawn from lands and waters that we, the
public, own together. So tonight, I propose we use some of our oil and gas
revenues to fund an Energy Security Trust that will drive new research and
technology to shift our cars and trucks off oil for good. If a non-partisan
coalition of CEOs and retired generals and admirals can get behind this idea,
then so can we. Let's take their advice and free our families and businesses
from the painful spikes in gas prices we've put up with for far too long. I'm
also issuing a new goal for America: let's cut in half the energy wasted by our
homes and businesses over the next twenty years. The states with the best ideas
to create jobs and lower energy bills by constructing more efficient buildings
will receive federal support to help make it happen.

America's energy sector is just one part of an aging infrastructure badly in
need of repair. Ask any CEO where they'd rather locate and hire: a country with
deteriorating roads and bridges, or one with high-speed rail and internet;
high-tech schools and self-healing power grids. The CEO of Siemens America -- a
company that brought hundreds of new jobs to North Carolina -- has said that if
we upgrade our infrastructure, they'll bring even more jobs. And I know that you
want these job-creating projects in your districts. I've seen you all at the
ribbon-cuttings.

Tonight, I propose a ''Fix-It-First'' program to put people to work as soon as
possible on our most urgent repairs, like the nearly 70,000 structurally
deficient bridges across the country. And to make sure taxpayers don't shoulder
the whole burden, I'm also proposing a Partnership to Rebuild America that
attracts private capital to upgrade what our businesses need most: modern ports
to move our goods; modern pipelines to withstand a storm; modern schools worthy
of our children. Let's prove that there is no better place to do business than
the United States of America. And let's start right away.

Part of our rebuilding effort must also involve our housing sector. Today, our
housing market is finally healing from the collapse of 2007. Home prices are
rising at the fastest pace in six years, home purchases are up nearly 50
percent, and construction is expanding again.

But even with mortgage rates near a 50-year low, too many families with solid
credit who want to buy a home are being rejected. Too many families who have
never missed a payment and want to refinance are being told no. That's holding
our entire economy back, and we need to fix it. Right now, there's a bill in
this Congress that would give every responsible homeowner in America the chance
to save $3,000 a year by refinancing at today's rates. Democrats and Republicans
have supported it before. What are we waiting for? Take a vote, and send me that
bill. Right now, overlapping regulations keep responsible young families from
buying their first home. What's holding us back? Let's streamline the process,
and help our economy grow.

These initiatives in manufacturing, energy, infrastructure, and housing will
help entrepreneurs and small business owners expand and create new jobs. But
none of it will matter unless we also equip our citizens with the skills and
training to fill those jobs. And that has to start at the earliest possible age.

Study after study shows that the sooner a child begins learning, the better he
or she does down the road. But today, fewer than 3 in 10 four year-olds are
enrolled in a high-quality preschool program. Most middle-class parents can't
afford a few hundred bucks a week for private preschool. And for poor kids who
need help the most, this lack of access to preschool education can shadow them
for the rest of their lives.

Tonight, I propose working with states to make high-quality preschool available
to every child in America. Every dollar we invest in high-quality early
education can save more than seven dollars later on -- by boosting graduation
rates, reducing teen pregnancy, even reducing violent crime. In states that make
it a priority to educate our youngest children, like Georgia or Oklahoma,
studies show students grow up more likely to read and do math at grade level,
graduate high school, hold a job, and form more stable families of their own. So
let's do what works, and make sure none of our children start the race of life
already behind. Let's give our kids that chance.

Let's also make sure that a high school diploma puts our kids on a path to a
good job. Right now, countries like Germany focus on graduating their high
school students with the equivalent of a technical degree from one of our
community colleges, so that they're ready for a job. At schools like P-Tech in
Brooklyn, a collaboration between New York Public Schools, the City University
of New York, and IBM, students will graduate with a high school diploma and an
associate degree in computers or engineering.

We need to give every American student opportunities like this. Four years ago,
we started Race to the Top -- a competition that convinced almost every state to
develop smarter curricula and higher standards, for about 1 percent of what we
spend on education each year. Tonight, I'm announcing a new challenge to
redesign America's high schools so they better equip graduates for the demands
of a high-tech economy. We'll reward schools that develop new partnerships with
colleges and employers, and create classes that focus on science, technology,
engineering, and math -- the skills today's employers are looking for to fill
jobs right now and in the future.

Now, even with better high schools, most young people will need some higher
education. It's a simple fact: the more education you have, the more likely you
are to have a job and work your way into the middle class. But today,
skyrocketing costs price way too many young people out of a higher education, or
saddle them with unsustainable debt.

Through tax credits, grants, and better loans, we have made college more
affordable for millions of students and families over the last few years. But
taxpayers cannot continue to subsidize the soaring cost of higher education.
Colleges must do their part to keep costs down, and it's our job to make sure
they do. Tonight, I ask Congress to change the Higher Education Act, so that
affordability and value are included in determining which colleges receive
certain types of federal aid. And tomorrow, my Administration will release a new
''College Scorecard'' that parents and students can use to compare schools based
on a simple criteria: where you can get the most bang for your educational buck.

To grow our middle class, our citizens must have access to the education and
training that today's jobs require. But we also have to make sure that America
remains a place where everyone who's willing to work hard has the chance to get
ahead.

Our economy is stronger when we harness the talents and ingenuity of striving,
hopeful immigrants. And right now, leaders from the business, labor, law
enforcement, and faith communities all agree that the time has come to pass
comprehensive immigration reform.

Real reform means strong border security, and we can build on the progress my
Administration has already made -- putting more boots on the southern border
than at any time in our history, and reducing illegal crossings to their lowest
levels in 40 years.

Real reform means establishing a responsible pathway to earned citizenship -- a
path that includes passing a background check, paying taxes and a meaningful
penalty, learning English, and going to the back of the line behind the folks
trying to come here legally.

And real reform means fixing the legal immigration system to cut waiting
periods, reduce bureaucracy, and attract the highly-skilled entrepreneurs and
engineers that will help create jobs and grow our economy.

In other words, we know what needs to be done. As we speak, bipartisan groups in
both chambers are working diligently to draft a bill, and I applaud their
efforts. Now let's get this done. Send me a comprehensive immigration reform
bill in the next few months, and I will sign it right away.

But we can't stop there. We know our economy is stronger when our wives,
mothers, and daughters can live their lives free from discrimination in the
workplace, and free from the fear of domestic violence. Today, the Senate passed
the Violence Against Women Act that Joe Biden originally wrote almost 20 years
ago. I urge the House to do the same. And I ask this Congress to declare that
women should earn a living equal to their efforts, and finally pass the Paycheck
Fairness Act this year.

We know our economy is stronger when we reward an honest day's work with honest
wages. But today, a full-time worker making the minimum wage earns $14,500 a
year. Even with the tax relief we've put in place, a family with two kids that
earns the minimum wage still lives below the poverty line. That's wrong. That's
why, since the last time this Congress raised the minimum wage, nineteen states
have chosen to bump theirs even higher.

Tonight, let's declare that in the wealthiest nation on Earth, no one who works
full-time should have to live in poverty, and raise the federal minimum wage to
$9.00 an hour. This single step would raise the incomes of millions of working
families. It could mean the difference between groceries or the food bank; rent
or eviction; scraping by or finally getting ahead. For businesses across the
country, it would mean customers with more money in their pockets. In fact,
working folks shouldn't have to wait year after year for the minimum wage to go
up while CEO pay has never been higher. So here's an idea that Governor Romney
and I actually agreed on last year: let's tie the minimum wage to the cost of
living, so that it finally becomes a wage you can live on.

Tonight, let's also recognize that there are communities in this country where
no matter how hard you work, it's virtually impossible to get ahead. Factory
towns decimated from years of plants packing up. Inescapable pockets of poverty,
urban and rural, where young adults are still fighting for their first job.
America is not a place where chance of birth or circumstance should decide our
destiny. And that is why we need to build new ladders of opportunity into the
middle class for all who are willing to climb them.

Let's offer incentives to companies that hire Americans who've got what it takes
to fill that job opening, but have been out of work so long that no one will
give them a chance. Let's put people back to work rebuilding vacant homes in
run-down neighborhoods. And this year, my Administration will begin to partner
with 20 of the hardest-hit towns in America to get these communities back on
their feet. We'll work with local leaders to target resources at public safety,
education, and housing. We'll give new tax credits to businesses that hire and
invest. And we'll work to strengthen families by removing the financial
deterrents to marriage for low-income couples, and doing more to encourage
fatherhood -- because what makes you a man isn't the ability to conceive a
child; it's having the courage to raise one.

Stronger families. Stronger communities. A stronger America. It is this kind of
prosperity -- broad, shared, and built on a thriving middle class -- that has
always been the source of our progress at home. It is also the foundation of our
power and influence throughout the world.

Tonight, we stand united in saluting the troops and civilians who sacrifice
every day to protect us. Because of them, we can say with confidence that
America will complete its mission in Afghanistan, and achieve our objective of
defeating the core of al Qaeda. Already, we have brought home 33,000 of our
brave servicemen and women. This spring, our forces will move into a support
role, while Afghan security forces take the lead. Tonight, I can announce that
over the next year, another 34,000 American troops will come home from
Afghanistan. This drawdown will continue. And by the end of next year, our war
in Afghanistan will be over.

Beyond 2014, America's commitment to a unified and sovereign Afghanistan will
endure, but the nature of our commitment will change. We are negotiating an
agreement with the Afghan government that focuses on two missions: training and
equipping Afghan forces so that the country does not again slip into chaos, and
counter-terrorism efforts that allow us to pursue the remnants of al Qaeda and
their affiliates.

Today, the organization that attacked us on 9/11 is a shadow of its former self.
Different al Qaeda affiliates and extremist groups have emerged -- from the
Arabian Peninsula to Africa. The threat these groups pose is evolving. But to
meet this threat, we don't need to send tens of thousands of our sons and
daughters abroad, or occupy other nations. Instead, we will need to help
countries like Yemen, Libya, and Somalia provide for their own security, and
help allies who take the fight to terrorists, as we have in Mali. And, where
necessary, through a range of capabilities, we will continue to take direct
action against those terrorists who pose the gravest threat to Americans.

As we do, we must enlist our values in the fight. That is why my Administration
has worked tirelessly to forge a durable legal and policy framework to guide our
counterterrorism operations. Throughout, we have kept Congress fully informed of
our efforts. I recognize that in our democracy, no one should just take my word
that we're doing things the right way. So, in the months ahead, I will continue
to engage with Congress to ensure not only that our targeting, detention, and
prosecution of terrorists remains consistent with our laws and system of checks
and balances, but that our efforts are even more transparent to the American
people and to the world.

Of course, our challenges don't end with al Qaeda. America will continue to lead
the effort to prevent the spread of the world's most dangerous weapons. The
regime in North Korea must know that they will only achieve security and
prosperity by meeting their international obligations. Provocations of the sort
we saw last night will only isolate them further, as we stand by our allies,
strengthen our own missile defense, and lead the world in taking firm action in
response to these threats.

Likewise, the leaders of Iran must recognize that now is the time for a
diplomatic solution, because a coalition stands united in demanding that they
meet their obligations, and we will do what is necessary to prevent them from
getting a nuclear weapon. At the same time, we will engage Russia to seek
further reductions in our nuclear arsenals, and continue leading the global
effort to secure nuclear materials that could fall into the wrong hands --
because our ability to influence others depends on our willingness to lead.

America must also face the rapidly growing threat from cyber-attacks. We know
hackers steal people's identities and infiltrate private e-mail. We know foreign
countries and companies swipe our corporate secrets. Now our enemies are also
seeking the ability to sabotage our power grid, our financial institutions, and
our air traffic control systems. We cannot look back years from now and wonder
why we did nothing in the face of real threats to our security and our economy.

That's why, earlier today, I signed a new executive order that will strengthen
our cyber defenses by increasing information sharing, and developing standards
to protect our national security, our jobs, and our privacy. Now, Congress must
act as well, by passing legislation to give our government a greater capacity to
secure our networks and deter attacks.

Even as we protect our people, we should remember that today's world presents
not only dangers, but opportunities. To boost American exports, support American
jobs, and level the playing field in the growing markets of Asia, we intend to
complete negotiations on a Trans-Pacific Partnership. And tonight, I am
announcing that we will launch talks on a comprehensive Transatlantic Trade and
Investment Partnership with the European Union -- because trade that is free and
fair across the Atlantic supports millions of good-paying American jobs.

We also know that progress in the most impoverished parts of our world enriches
us all. In many places, people live on little more than a dollar a day. So the
United States will join with our allies to eradicate such extreme poverty in the
next two decades: by connecting more people to the global economy and empowering
women; by giving our young and brightest minds new opportunities to serve and
helping communities to feed, power, and educate themselves; by saving the
world's children from preventable deaths; and by realizing the promise of an
AIDS-free generation.

Above all, America must remain a beacon to all who seek freedom during this
period of historic change. I saw the power of hope last year in Rangoon -- when
Aung San Suu Kyi welcomed an American President into the home where she had been
imprisoned for years; when thousands of Burmese lined the streets, waving
American flags, including a man who said, ''There is justice and law in the
United States. I want our country to be like that.''

In defense of freedom, we will remain the anchor of strong alliances from the
Americas to Africa; from Europe to Asia. In the Middle East, we will stand with
citizens as they demand their universal rights, and support stable transitions
to democracy. The process will be messy, and we cannot presume to dictate the
course of change in countries like Egypt; but we can -- and will -- insist on
respect for the fundamental rights of all people. We will keep the pressure on a
Syrian regime that has murdered its own people, and support opposition leaders
that respect the rights of every Syrian. And we will stand steadfast with Israel
in pursuit of security and a lasting peace. These are the messages I will
deliver when I travel to the Middle East next month.

All this work depends on the courage and sacrifice of those who serve in
dangerous places at great personal risk -- our diplomats, our intelligence
officers, and the men and women of the United States Armed Forces. As long as
I'm Commander-in-Chief, we will do whatever we must to protect those who serve
their country abroad, and we will maintain the best military in the world. We
will invest in new capabilities, even as we reduce waste and wartime spending.
We will ensure equal treatment for all service members, and equal benefits for
their families -- gay and straight. We will draw upon the courage and skills of
our sisters and daughters, because women have proven under fire that they are
ready for combat. We will keep faith with our veterans -- investing in
world-class care, including mental health care, for our wounded warriors;
supporting our military families; and giving our veterans the benefits,
education, and job opportunities they have earned. And I want to thank my wife
Michelle and Dr. Jill Biden for their continued dedication to serving our
military families as well as they serve us.

But defending our freedom is not the job of our military alone. We must all do
our part to make sure our God-given rights are protected here at home. That
includes our most fundamental right as citizens: the right to vote. When any
Americans -- no matter where they live or what their party -- are denied that
right simply because they can't wait for five, six, seven hours just to cast
their ballot, we are betraying our ideals. That's why, tonight, I'm announcing a
non-partisan commission to improve the voting experience in America. And I'm
asking two long-time experts in the field, who've recently served as the top
attorneys for my campaign and for Governor Romney's campaign, to lead it. We can
fix this, and we will. The American people demand it. And so does our democracy.

Of course, what I've said tonight matters little if we don't come together to
protect our most precious resource -- our children.

It has been two months since Newtown. I know this is not the first time this
country has debated how to reduce gun violence. But this time is different.
Overwhelming majorities of Americans -- Americans who believe in the 2nd
Amendment -- have come together around commonsense reform -- like background
checks that will make it harder for criminals to get their hands on a gun.
Senators of both parties are working together on tough new laws to prevent
anyone from buying guns for resale to criminals. Police chiefs are asking our
help to get weapons of war and massive ammunition magazines off our streets,
because they are tired of being outgunned.

Each of these proposals deserves a vote in Congress. If you want to vote no,
that's your choice. But these proposals deserve a vote. Because in the two
months since Newtown, more than a thousand birthdays, graduations, and
anniversaries have been stolen from our lives by a bullet from a gun.

One of those we lost was a young girl named Hadiya Pendleton. She was 15 years
old. She loved Fig Newtons and lip gloss. She was a majorette. She was so good
to her friends, they all thought they were her best friend. Just three weeks
ago, she was here, in Washington, with her classmates, performing for her
country at my inauguration. And a week later, she was shot and killed in a
Chicago park after school, just a mile away from my house.

Hadiya's parents, Nate and Cleo, are in this chamber tonight, along with more
than two dozen Americans whose lives have been torn apart by gun violence. They
deserve a vote.

Gabby Giffords deserves a vote.

The families of Newtown deserve a vote.

The families of Aurora deserve a vote.

The families of Oak Creek, and Tucson, and Blacksburg, and the countless other
communities ripped open by gun violence -- they deserve a simple vote.

Our actions will not prevent every senseless act of violence in this country.
Indeed, no laws, no initiatives, no administrative acts will perfectly solve all
the challenges I've outlined tonight. But we were never sent here to be perfect.
We were sent here to make what difference we can, to secure this nation, expand
opportunity, and uphold our ideals through the hard, often frustrating, but
absolutely necessary work of self-government.

We were sent here to look out for our fellow Americans the same way they look
out for one another, every single day, usually without fanfare, all across this
country. We should follow their example.

We should follow the example of a New York City nurse named Menchu Sanchez. When
Hurricane Sandy plunged her hospital into darkness, her thoughts were not with
how her own home was faring -- they were with the twenty precious newborns in
her care and the rescue plan she devised that kept them all safe.

We should follow the example of a North Miami woman named Desiline Victor. When
she arrived at her polling place, she was told the wait to vote might be six
hours. And as time ticked by, her concern was not with her tired body or aching
feet, but whether folks like her would get to have their say. Hour after hour, a
throng of people stayed in line in support of her. Because Desiline is 102 years
old. And they erupted in cheers when she finally put on a sticker that read ''I
Voted.''

We should follow the example of a police officer named Brian Murphy. When a
gunman opened fire on a Sikh temple in Wisconsin, and Brian was the first to
arrive, he did not consider his own safety. He fought back until help arrived,
and ordered his fellow officers to protect the safety of the Americans
worshiping inside -- even as he lay bleeding from twelve bullet wounds.

When asked how he did that, Brian said, ''That's just the way we're made.''

That's just the way we're made.

We may do different jobs, and wear different uniforms, and hold different views
than the person beside us. But as Americans, we all share the same proud title:

We are citizens. It's a word that doesn't just describe our nationality or legal
status. It describes the way we're made. It describes what we believe. It
captures the enduring idea that this country only works when we accept certain
obligations to one another and to future generations; that our rights are
wrapped up in the rights of others; and that well into our third century as a
nation, it remains the task of us all, as citizens of these United States, to be
the authors of the next great chapter in our American story.

Thank you, God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/13/us/politics/obamas-2013-state-of-the-union-add
ress.html

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 14, 2013 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Scouting Report

BYLINE: By ALISON S. COHN

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 361 words


V-Day

This year, you'd be forgiven for mistaking Valentine's Day for Cyber Monday. If
you've forgotten to buy flowers and chocolates, you can make it up to the object
of your affections thanks to the PICKIE GIFT RECOMMENDER. Pickie, the iPad
shopping app that uses social data to collate product mentions in your feeds
(for example, an Ostwald Helgason look is shouted out on Twitter), has teamed up
with Zappos to offer personalized present suggestions. The tool does the hard
work of figuring out what your giftees are interested in by analyzing their
Facebook likes and Pinterest pins to let you know your guy will adore a pair of
John Varvatos driving mocs ($188) or your gal a Marc by Marc Jacobs bunny-ear
iPhone cover ($48).

Love is in the air at Target.com, where a number of the 92 pieces from the
PRABAL GURUNG FOR TARGET capsule collection can still be found. There is, for
instance, a ruffle dress ($39.99) and floral A-line skirt ($29.99) that have a
rather different tone than the hard-edge vision of femininity the designer
showed Saturday at New York Fashion Week.

For those in a less than lovey-dovey frame of mind, Leandra Medine of Man
Repeller had the stroke of evil genius to introduce her own line, called JUST
SAYIN', on V-Day. The collection, a quirky collaboration with Chelsey Santry of
the Los Angeles contemporary label PJK, includes a leather motorcycle jacket
with a removable peplum ($598), a silk mermaid maxiskirt ($258) and a floral
print pajama suit (top, $98; pants, $198) that Ms. Medine deems ''juvenile and
convivial.'' Says Ms. Santry, a male-rebuffing neophyte, of the items that will
be available on PJK.com starting Thursday, ''Personally I can't wait to wear
them, but I know my boyfriend will be raising some eyebrows on my way out the
door that day.''

Sales

Barneys New York unveiled its all-sale, all-the-time outlet site
barneyswarehouse.com earlier this month, but for those who miss the physical
experience of searching for heavily discounted 85 millimeter heels, the BARNEYS
WAREHOUSE SALE opens on Thursday at the Chelsea Co-Op at 255 West 17th Street.
From Feb. 14 to 24.

Send shopping suggestions to Browsing@nytimes.com

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/14/fashion/last-minute-valentine-help.html

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 17, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

If You're Collecting Our Data, You Ought to Protect It

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SLIPSTREAM;
Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1221 words


LAST summer, employees at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
received an in-house newsletter illustrated with mock front pages of USA Today
and The Washington Post and seemingly hyperbolic headlines like: ''NASA Laptop
Stolen, Potential Compromise of 10,000 Employees' Private Information!''

The catastrophizing turned out to be prescient.

On Halloween, just a few months after the newsletter went out, a laptop used by
an employee at NASA headquarters in Washington was stolen from a parked car.
Subsequently, NASA sent letters to about 10,000 current and former employees and
contractors, warning them that the laptop had not been encrypted. The letter
explained that confidential details -- like employees' names, birth dates,
Social Security numbers and, in some cases, personal information from background
checks -- may have been compromised.

When Robert M. Nelson, a solar systems scientist who recently retired after 34
years at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, part of NASA, received the letter, he
felt vindicated. Several years earlier, he and 27 other civilian scientists at
the lab sued the agency to try to stop it from conducting open-ended background
checks of researchers like them who worked on nonmilitary space projects.

''You'd think an agent of NASA would be a little more careful,'' Dr. Nelson
says. ''Why does NASA need personal data unrelated to our work and then treat it
in such a cavalier way that it is stolen from a car unencrypted?''

NASA has since notified an additional 30,000 people whose personal information
may have been on the stolen laptop, says Robert Jacobs, a NASA spokesman. He
declined to provide the job title of the person who left the laptop in the car.
But he said that there had been no indication of identity theft and that the
agency has encrypted practically all of its 38,000 laptops.

By now, reports of lost or stolen business devices are so common that many
people open data-breach notices from their banks, insurers, medical
institutions, schools and state agencies with something like resignation. In
fact, negligence by employees and contractors has been a more common cause of
corporate data breaches in the United States than malicious attacks, according
to a study of 2011 done by the Ponemon Institute, a research center on data
security, and financed by Symantec, a data security company. Institutions,
companies and government agencies often devote more resources to collecting
information about employees and consumers than to protecting it, security
specialists say.

''This is an unfortunate but perfectly cautionary tale of not only how we should
look more carefully at protecting data after it is collected,'' says Lee Tien, a
senior staff lawyer at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital rights
group in San Francisco, ''but also how the data is to be safeguarded before we
collect it to make sure it isn't used improperly or disclosed accidentally.''

Dr. Nelson and his colleagues at the Jet Propulsion Lab, which is operated for
NASA by the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena, didn't set out to
become crusaders for workplace data privacy and security. Initially, they wanted
only to challenge NASA's background checks, arguing that civilian scientists had
a right to keep their romantic, psychiatric and other intimate information
private from the government. Besides, they contended, the space agency would not
be able to safeguard the information.

The scientists took their case all the way to the Supreme Court, only to lose.
In 2011, the justices unanimously ruled that NASA had legitimate reasons to look
into personal issues, like whether an employee had received drug counseling. A
federal law called the Privacy Act of 1974, which restricts how government
agencies share a person's data, the justices said, should protect the
information obtained in background checks.

''They were clearly wrong,'' says Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the
Electronic Privacy Information Center, an advocacy group in Washington that
filed a friend-of-the-court-brief in the case. ''Exactly the problem people
anticipated came to pass.''

Privacy advocates say that one obstacle to improving workplace information
security is a lack of consequences for employees who compromise personal data.
In 2009, for example, the Government Accountability Office issued a report,
titled ''NASA Needs to Remedy Vulnerabilities in Key Networks,'' which urged the
agency to institute whole-disk encryption for all of its laptops. Unlike simple
computer login passwords -- which can often be guessed or bypassed to get to
readable files -- disk encryption scrambles files so they can't be read without
the correct key.

NASA eventually required the Jet Propulsion Laboratory to encrypt its laptops.
But at the time of the Halloween theft, not all laptops at agency headquarters
itself had been encrypted. Susan Landau, a Guggenheim fellow in cyber security,
privacy and public policy, says companies and agencies are unlikely to improve
data security without the threat of penalty.

''What are the personal consequences for employees who allow data breaches to
happen?'' Ms. Landau asks. ''Until people lose their jobs, nothing is going to
change.''

Mr. Jacobs declined to comment about whether NASA had disciplined the employee
who left the laptop in the car, saying the issue was ''covered by privacy.''

DR. NELSON did not emerge from his data rights battle unscathed. Caltech issued
disciplinary citations to five employees of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory,
including Dr. Nelson, who had used their nasa.gov e-mail addresses to send
messages to thousands of colleagues about the Supreme Court decision. An
employee who commits a second offense after receiving such a warning could be
fired, Dr. Nelson says.

Lawren B. Markle, a spokesman for Caltech, says the employees used government
resources, paid for by taxpayers, ''to spam thousands of individuals, government
officials and agencies, other businesses, and colleges and universities'' with
their political views.

''As a federal contractor,'' Mr. Markle wrote in an e-mail, ''we cannot allow
the government resources entrusted to us to be used in this manner and
particularly not to lobby for political positions.''

He added that a second warning would not automatically lead to dismissal. ''The
outcome would depend on the severity of the conduct and the history of the
employee's service,'' he said.

The five employees have filed cases with the National Labor Relations Board,
saying that they were unfairly disciplined because the e-mails were
work-related.

''In the short time since the Supreme Court decision, tens of thousands of
people have had their data compromised,'' Dr. Nelson says. ''For warning about
what would eventually become true, we received disciplinary citations.''

An administrative judge is to rule on the matter in the coming months, but a Los
Angeles office of the labor relations agency found merit in the scientists'
cases, concluding that Caltech unlawfully issued disciplinary warnings for the
e-mails, says Mori Rubin, the regional director of the office. Her office also
concluded that Caltech had disciplined the scientists for practices that other
employees routinely undertook without penalty.

Such are the risks of taking a public stance on privacy.

E-mail: slipstream@nytimes.com

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/17/technology/if-youre-collecting-our-data-you-ou
ght-to-protect-it.html

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BILL MAYER)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 19, 2013 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

China's Army Seen as Tied To Hacking Against U.S.

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, DAVID BARBOZA and NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3123 words


On the outskirts of Shanghai, in a run-down neighborhood dominated by a 12-story
white office tower, sits a People's Liberation Army base for China's growing
corps of cyberwarriors.

The building off Datong Road, surrounded by restaurants, massage parlors and a
wine importer, is the headquarters of P.L.A. Unit 61398. A growing body of
digital forensic evidence -- confirmed by American intelligence officials who
say they have tapped into the activity of the army unit for years -- leaves
little doubt that an overwhelming percentage of the attacks on American
corporations, organizations and government agencies originate in and around the
white tower.

An unusually detailed 60-page study, to be released Tuesday by Mandiant, an
American computer security firm, tracks for the first time individual members of
the most sophisticated of the Chinese hacking groups -- known to many of its
victims in the United States as ''Comment Crew'' or ''Shanghai Group'' -- to the
doorstep of the military unit's headquarters. The firm was not able to place the
hackers inside the 12-story building, but makes a case there is no other
plausible explanation for why so many attacks come out of one comparatively
small area.

''Either they are coming from inside Unit 61398,'' said Kevin Mandia, the
founder and chief executive of Mandiant, in an interview last week, ''or the
people who run the most-controlled, most-monitored Internet networks in the
world are clueless about thousands of people generating attacks from this one
neighborhood.''

Other security firms that have tracked ''Comment Crew'' say they also believe
the group is state-sponsored, and a recent classified National Intelligence
Estimate, issued as a consensus document for all 16 of the United States
intelligence agencies, makes a strong case that many of these hacking groups are
either run by army officers or are contractors working for commands like Unit
61398, according to officials with knowledge of its classified content.

Mandiant provided an advance copy of its report to The New York Times, saying it
hoped to ''bring visibility to the issues addressed in the report.'' Times
reporters then tested the conclusions with other experts, both inside and
outside government, who have examined links between the hacking groups and the
army (Mandiant was hired by The New York Times Company to investigate a
sophisticated Chinese-origin attack on its news operations, but concluded it was
not the work of Comment Crew, but another Chinese group. The firm is not
currently working for the Times Company but it is in discussions about a
business relationship.)

While Comment Crew has drained terabytes of data from companies like Coca-Cola,
increasingly its focus is on companies involved in the critical infrastructure
of the United States -- its electrical power grid, gas lines and waterworks.
According to the security researchers, one target was a company with remote
access to more than 60 percent of oil and gas pipelines in North America. The
unit was also among those that attacked the computer security firm RSA, whose
computer codes protect confidential corporate and government databases.

Contacted Monday, officials at the Chinese embassy in Washington again insisted
that their government does not engage in computer hacking, and that such
activity is illegal. They describe China itself as a victim of computer hacking,
and point out, accurately, that there are many hacking groups inside the United
States. But in recent years the Chinese attacks have grown significantly,
security researchers say. Mandiant has detected more than 140 Comment Crew
intrusions since 2006. American intelligence agencies and private security firms
that track many of the 20 or so other Chinese groups every day say those groups
appear to be contractors with links to the unit.

While the unit's existence and operations are considered a Chinese state secret,
Representative Mike Rogers of Michigan, the Republican chairman of the House
Intelligence Committee, said in an interview that the Mandiant report was
''completely consistent with the type of activity the Intelligence Committee has
been seeing for some time.''

The White House said it was ''aware'' of the Mandiant report, and Tommy Vietor,
the spokesman for the National Security Council, said, ''We have repeatedly
raised our concerns at the highest levels about cybertheft with senior Chinese
officials, including in the military, and we will continue to do so.''

The United States government is planning to begin a more aggressive defense
against Chinese hacking groups, starting on Tuesday. Under a directive signed by
President Obama last week, the government plans to share with American Internet
providers information it has gathered about the unique digital signatures of the
largest of the groups, including Comment Crew and others emanating from near
where Unit 61398 is based.

But the government warnings will not explicitly link those groups, or the giant
computer servers they use, to the Chinese army. The question of whether to
publicly name the unit and accuse it of widespread theft is the subject of
ongoing debate.

''There are huge diplomatic sensitivities here,'' said one intelligence
official, with frustration in his voice.

But Obama administration officials say they are planning to tell China's new
leaders in coming weeks that the volume and sophistication of the attacks have
become so intense that they threaten the fundamental relationship between
Washington and Beijing.

The United States government also has cyberwarriors. Working with Israel, the
United States has used malicious software called Stuxnet to disrupt Iran's
uranium enrichment program. But government officials insist they operate under
strict, if classified, rules that bar using offensive weapons for nonmilitary
purposes or stealing corporate data.

The United States finds itself in something of an asymmetrical digital war with
China. ''In the cold war, we were focused every day on the nuclear command
centers around Moscow,'' one senior defense official said recently. ''Today,
it's fair to say that we worry as much about the computer servers in Shanghai.''

A Shadowy Unit

Unit 61398 -- formally, the 2nd Bureau of the People's Liberation Army's General
Staff Department's 3rd Department -- exists almost nowhere in official Chinese
military descriptions. Yet intelligence analysts who have studied the group say
it is the central element of Chinese computer espionage. The unit was described
in 2011 as the ''premier entity targeting the United States and Canada, most
likely focusing on political, economic, and military-related intelligence'' by
the Project 2049 Institute, a nongovernmental organization in Virginia that
studies security and policy issues in Asia.

While the Obama administration has never publicly discussed the Chinese unit's
activities, a secret State Department cable written the day before Barack Obama
was elected president in November 2008 described at length American concerns
about the group's attacks on government sites. (At the time American
intelligence agencies called the unit ''Byzantine Candor,'' a code word dropped
after the cable was published by WikiLeaks.)

The Defense Department and the State Department were particular targets, the
cable said, describing how the group's intruders send e-mails, called
''spearphishing'' attacks, that placed malware on target computers once the
recipient clicked on them. From there, they were inside the systems.

American officials say that a combination of diplomatic concerns and the desire
to follow the unit's activities have kept the government from going public. But
Mandiant's report is forcing the issue into public view.

For more than six years, Mandiant tracked the actions of Comment Crew, so named
for the attackers' penchant for embedding hidden code or comments into Web
pages. Based on the digital crumbs the group left behind -- its attackers have
been known to use the same malware, Web domains, Internet protocol addresses,
hacking tools and techniques across attacks -- Mandiant followed 141 attacks by
the group, which it called ''A.P.T. 1'' for Advanced Persistent Threat 1.

''But those are only the ones we could easily identify,'' said Mr. Mandia. Other
security experts estimate that the group is responsible for thousands of
attacks.

As Mandiant mapped the Internet protocol addresses and other bits of digital
evidence, it all led back to the edges of Pudong district of Shanghai, right
around the Unit 61398 headquarters. The group's report, along with 3,000
addresses and other indicators that can be used to identify the source of
attacks, concludes ''the totality of the evidence'' leads to the conclusion that
''A.P.T. 1 is Unit 61398.''

Mandiant discovered that two sets of I.P. addresses used in the attacks were
registered in the same neighborhood as Unit 61398's building.

''It's where more than 90 percent of the attacks we followed come from,'' said
Mr. Mandia.

The only other possibility, the report concludes with a touch of sarcasm, is
that ''a secret, resourced organization full of mainland Chinese speakers with
direct access to Shanghai-based telecommunications infrastructure is engaged in
a multiyear enterprise-scale computer espionage campaign right outside of Unit
61398's gates.''

The most fascinating elements of the Mandiant report follow the
keystroke-by-keystroke actions of several of the hackers who the firm believes
work for the P.L.A. Mandiant tracked their activities from inside the computer
systems of American companies they were invading. The companies had given
Mandiant investigators full access to rid them of the Chinese spies.

One of the most visible hackers it followed is UglyGorilla, who first appeared
on a Chinese military forum in January 2004, asking whether China has a
''similar force'' to the ''cyber army'' being set up by the American military.

By 2007 UglyGorilla was turning out a suite of malware with what the report
called a ''clearly identifiable signature.'' Another hacker, called ''DOTA'' by
Mandiant, created e-mail accounts that were used to plant malware. That hacker
was tracked frequently using a password that appeared to be based on his
military unit's designation. DOTA and UglyGorilla both used the same I.P.
addresses linked back to Unit 61398's neighborhood.

Mandiant discovered several cases in which attackers logged into their Facebook
and Twitter accounts to get around China's firewall that blocks ordinary
citizen's access, making it easier to track down their real identities.

Mandiant also discovered an internal China Telecom memo discussing the
state-owned telecom company's decision to install high-speed fiber-optic lines
for Unit 61398's headquarters.

China's defense ministry has denied that it is responsible for initiating
attacks. ''It is unprofessional and groundless to accuse the Chinese military of
launching cyberattacks without any conclusive evidence,'' it said last month,
one of the statements that prompted Mandiant to make public its evidence.

Escalating Attacks

Mandiant believes Unit 61398 conducted sporadic attacks on American corporate
and government computer networks; the earliest it found was in 2006. Two years
ago the numbers spiked. Mandiant discovered some of the intrusions were
long-running. On average the group would stay inside a network, stealing data
and passwords, for a year; in one case it had access for four years and 10
months.

Mandiant has watched the group as it has stolen technology blueprints,
manufacturing processes, clinical trial results, pricing documents, negotiation
strategies and other proprietary information from more than 100 of its clients,
mostly in the United States. Mandiant identified attacks on 20 industries, from
military contractors to chemical plants, mining companies and satellite and
telecommunications corporations.

Mandiant's report does not name the victims, who usually insist on anonymity. A
2009 attack on Coca-Cola coincided with the beverage giant's failed attempt to
acquire the China Huiyuan Juice Group for $2.4 billion, according to people with
knowledge of the results of the company's investigation.

As Coca-Cola executives were negotiating what would have been the largest
foreign purchase of a Chinese company, Comment Crew was busy rummaging through
their computers in an apparent effort to learn more about Coca-Cola's
negotiation strategy.

The attack on Coca-Cola began, like hundreds before it, with a seemingly
innocuous e-mail to an executive that was, in fact, a spearphishing attack. When
the executive clicked on a malicious link in the e-mail, it gave the attackers a
foothold inside Coca-Cola's network. From inside, they sent confidential company
files through a maze of computers back to Shanghai, on a weekly basis,
unnoticed.

Two years later, Comment Crew was one of at least three Chinese-based groups to
mount a similar attack on RSA, the computer security company owned by EMC, a
large technology company. It is best known for its SecurID token, carried by
employees at United States intelligence agencies, military contractors and many
major companies. (The New York Times also uses the firm's tokens to allow access
to its e-mail and production systems remotely.) RSA has offered to replace
SecurID tokens for customers and said it had added new layers of security to its
products.

As in the Coca-Cola case, the attack began with a targeted, cleverly fashioned
poisoned e-mail to an RSA employee. Two months later, hackers breached Lockheed
Martin, the nation's largest defense contractor, partly by using the information
they gleaned from the RSA attack.

Mandiant is not the only private firm tracking Comment Crew. In 2011, Joe
Stewart, a Dell SecureWorks researcher, was analyzing malware used in the RSA
attack when he discovered that the attackers had used a hacker tool to mask
their true location.

When he reverse-engineered the tool, he found that the vast majority of stolen
data had been transferred to the same range of I.P. addresses that Mandiant
later identified in Shanghai.

Dell SecureWorks says it believed Comment Crew includes the same group of
attackers behind Operation Shady RAT, an extensive computer espionage campaign
uncovered in 2011 in which more than 70 organizations over a five-year period,
including the United Nations, government agencies in the United States, Canada,
South Korea, Taiwan and Vietnam were targeted.

Infrastructure at Risk

What most worries American investigators is that the latest set of attacks
believed coming from Unit 61398 focus not just on stealing information, but
obtaining the ability to manipulate American critical infrastructure: the power
grids and other utilities.

Staff at Digital Bond, a small security firm that specializes in those
industrial-control computers, said that last June Comment Crew unsuccessfully
attacked it. A part-time employee at Digital Bond received an e-mail that
appeared to come from his boss, Dale Peterson. The e-mail, in perfect English,
discussed security weaknesses in critical infrastructure systems, and asked the
employee to click a link to a document for more information. Mr. Peterson caught
the e-mail and shared it with other researchers, who found the link contained a
remote-access tool that would have given the attackers control over the
employee's computer and potentially given them a front-row seat to confidential
information about Digital Bond's clients, which include a major water project, a
power plant and a mining company.

Jaime Blasco, a security researcher at AlienVault, analyzed the computer servers
used in the attack, which led him to other victims, including the Chertoff
Group. That firm, headed by the former secretary of the Department of Homeland
Security, Michael Chertoff, has run simulations of an extensive digital attack
on the United States. Other attacks were made on a contractor for the National
Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, and the National Electrical Manufacturers
Association, a lobbying group that represents companies that make components for
power grids. Those organizations confirmed they were attacked but have said they
prevented attackers from gaining access to their network.

Mr. Blasco said that, based on the forensics, all the victims had been hit by
Comment Crew. But the most troubling attack to date, security experts say, was a
successful invasion of the Canadian arm of Telvent. The company, now owned by
Schneider Electric, designs software that gives oil and gas pipeline companies
and power grid operators remote access to valves, switches and security systems.

Telvent keeps detailed blueprints on more than half of all the oil and gas
pipelines in North and South America, and has access to their systems. In
September, Telvent Canada told customers that attackers had broken into its
systems and taken project files. That access was immediately cut, so that the
intruders could not take command of the systems.

Martin Hanna, a Schneider Electric spokesman, did not return requests for
comment, but security researchers who studied the malware used in the attack,
including Mr. Stewart at Dell SecureWorks and Mr. Blasco at AlienVault,
confirmed that the perpetrators were the Comment Crew.

''This is terrifying because -- forget about the country -- if someone hired me
and told me they wanted to have the offensive capability to take out as many
critical systems as possible, I would be going after the vendors and do things
like what happened to Telvent,'' Mr. Peterson of Digital Bond said. ''It's the
holy grail.''

Mr. Obama alluded to this concern in the State of the Union speech, without
mentioning China or any other nation. ''We know foreign countries and companies
swipe our corporate secrets,'' he said. ''Now our enemies are also seeking the
ability to sabotage our power grid, our financial institutions, our air-traffic
control systems. We cannot look back years from now and wonder why we did
nothing.''

Mr. Obama faces a vexing choice: In a sprawling, vital relationship with China,
is it worth a major confrontation between the world's largest and second largest
economy over computer hacking?

A few years ago, administration officials say, the theft of intellectual
property was an annoyance, resulting in the loss of billions of dollars of
revenue. But clearly something has changed. The mounting evidence of state
sponsorship, the increasing boldness of Unit 61398, and the growing threat to
American infrastructure are leading officials to conclude that a far stronger
response is necessary.

''Right now there is no incentive for the Chinese to stop doing this,'' said Mr.
Rogers, the House intelligence chairman. ''If we don't create a high price, it's
only going to keep accelerating.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/19/technology/chinas-army-is-seen-as-tied-to-hack
ing-against-us.html

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: This 12-story building on the outskirts of Shanghai is the
headquarters of Unit 61398 of the People's Liberation Army. China's defense
ministry has denied that it is responsible for initiating digital attacks. (A9)
MAPS: Headquarters building of P.L.A. Unit 61398 (Source: Google Earth)
 CHART: Industries Targeted by the Hackers: A new study by Mandiant, an American
computer security firm, identified more than 140  organizations that have been
compromised over the past six years by a single hacking  group, called "Comment
Crew'' or "Shanghai Group.'' Mandiant has assembled a circumstantial  case that
links Comment Crew to Unit 61398 of the People's Liberation Army. (Source:
Mandiant) (A9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           February 19, 2013 Tuesday

Daily Report: Chinese Army Unit Is Tied to Hacking Against U.S.

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 377 words



HIGHLIGHT: An overwhelming percentage of the attacks on American companies and
government agencies start in a building on the edge of Shanghai, headquarters of
a Chinese army cyber warrior unit, say American intelligence officials and
cybersecurity experts.


A growing body of digital forensic evidence - confirmed by American intelligence
officials who say they have tapped into the activity of the army unit for years
- leaves little doubt that an overwhelming percentage of the attacks on American
corporations, organizations and government agencies originate in and around the
headquarters of the People's Liberation Army in Shanghai.

David E. Sanger, David Barboza and Nicole Perlroth of The New York Times report
that an unusually detailed 60-page study, to be released Tuesday by Mandiant, an
American computer security firm, tracks for the first time individual members of
the most sophisticated of the Chinese hacking groups - known to many of its
victims in the United States as "Comment Crew" or "Shanghai Group."

"Either they are coming from inside Unit 61398," said Kevin Mandia, the founder
and chief executive of Mandiant, in an interview last week, "or the people who
run the most-controlled, most-monitored Internet networks in the world are
clueless about thousands of people generating attacks from this one
neighborhood."

Other security firms that have tracked "Comment Crew" say they also believe the
group is state-sponsored, and a recent classified National Intelligence
Estimate, issued as a consensus document for all 16 of the United States
intelligence agencies, makes a strong case that many of these hacking groups are
either run by army officers or are contractors working for commands like Unit
61398, according to officials with knowledge of its classified content.

Increasingly its focus is on companies involved in the critical infrastructure
of the United States - its electrical power grid, gas lines and waterworks.
According to the security researchers, one target was a company with remote
access to more than 60 percent of oil and gas pipelines in North America.

The United States government is planning to begin a more aggressive defense
against Chinese hacking groups, starting on Tuesday. Under a directive signed by
President Obama last week, the government plans to share with American Internet
providers information it has gathered about the unique digital signatures of the
largest of the groups, including Comment Crew and others emanating from near
where Unit 61398 is based.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                           February 19, 2013 Tuesday

Checking Out Some Shopping

BYLINE: EMILY BRENNAN

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 250 words



HIGHLIGHT: Some design-conscious hotels are stocking guests' closets with
clothing and accessories selected for them by personal shoppers.


Imagine checking into your hotel and finding a closet stocked with clothing that
personal shoppers have chosen with you in mind. This service, which comes on the
heels of other design-conscious hotels introducing personal shopping services,
is a new feature at the St. Regis Bal Harbour Resortin Miami Beach, Fla. The
clothing, selected by a shopping team at Neiman Marcus, is based on an online
questionnaire that guests can fill out specifying their favorite style icons -
from the "Mad Men" character Betty Draper to George Clooney - as well as their
body types and sizes.

The St. Regis is not the only hotel with this idea. The James New York began a
similar service in August: when guests arrive in their rooms, they'll find a box
of accessories by New York-based designers like Christopher Fischer wrap scarfs
or Ernest Alexander neckties. The items are selected by the celebrity stylist
Mimi Lombardo, with whom guests can also book personal shopping excursions,
based on the assumption that their clothing tastes will be similar in style to
the urban, sleek décor of the James itself.

Both hotels offer payment options inspired by the minibar's miniature bottles of
Jack Daniels: if the metallic snake Rafe clutch is missing at checkout, it's
considered a purchase.


     ·    Pros Get the Shots You Can Share
     ·    Choosing a Hotel by 'Experience' and Neighborhood
     ·    Cyber Monday Now Includes Hotel Deals
     ·    Booking a Hotel in New York? Use Your Cell Power to Call, Not Surf.
     ·    A Bed-and-Breakfast Deal Proves Popular at Hotels


LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                           February 19, 2013 Tuesday

China's Cyberwarriors

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 79 words



HIGHLIGHT: Rendezvous's editor, Marcus Mabry, interviews David E. Sanger, chief
Washington correspondent, on the efforts of Chinese hackers to infiltrate
critical American infrastructure, from electrical grids to oil and gas
pipelines.


Rendezvous's editor, Marcus Mabry, interviews David E. Sanger, chief Washington
correspondent, on the efforts of Chinese hackers to infiltrate critical American
infrastructure, from electrical grids to oil and gas pipelines. Is there a cyber
-Cold War under way?


     ·    Builder of China's 'Great Firewall' Finds His Holiday Greetings
          Spurned
     ·    Adding More Bricks to the Great Firewall of China
     ·    Anger in New Zealand Over Leaky Government Computers
     ·    Zuckerberg in China: Let the Rumors Begin


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                           February 19, 2013 Tuesday

In the Year of the Snake, Challenges for the Chinese Economy

BYLINE: BILL BISHOP

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 943 words



HIGHLIGHT: China is back to work after a weeklong holiday to celebrate the
Chinese New Year. Questions about economic data and cyber attacks remain.


China is back to work after a weeklong holiday to celebrate the Chinese New
Year. Most business shut for the entire week and the scale of human migration
was awesome. This year, the Chinese made 440 million trips during the lunar
holiday.

Chinese people spend a lot of money during this period, shoot off a lot of
fireworks and increasingly travel overseas. Retail sales in the period were $86
billion, up 14.7 percent from last year though the growth rate was down from
16.7 percent pace in 2012. The government's frugality campaign may be to blame,
as well as the increase in foreign travel. China UnionPay reported that overseas
bank card transactions increased 33 percent from last year.

Firework sales were off 45 percent in Beijing this year. This was my seventh
consecutive Spring Festival in Beijing, and while there were still a lot of
explosions, the pyrotechnics were noticeably more restrained than in prior
years. The good news is that "no deaths or cases of eyeball extraction were
reported" in Beijing and fireworks-induced air pollution was relatively light.

We are now in the Year of the Snake. Snake years unfortunately may be bad for
stocks. According to Sam Stovall, chief equity strategist at S&P Capital IQ:

Since 1900, the S.&P. 500 posted its only average calendar-year decline during
the Year of the Snake, falling 3.8 percent, and rising in price just 33 percent
of the time, which was the worst price performance and frequency of advance of
all 12 years.

THE CHINESE STOCK MARKETS reopened Monday to a small gain but on Tuesday dropped
the most in five weeks. The proximate cause of Tuesday's decline was a report
that Beijing is so concerned by the resurgent property market it may impose
additional real estate restrictions between now and the annual meeting of the
National People's Congress in early March. The markets here have had a good run
since December and a few of my punter friends have decided to take some profits.

This column has repeatedly noted the doubts about the reliability of Chinese
economic statistics. Stephen Green of Standard Chartered has published a new
report in which he questions the official gross domestic product data for the
last two years. Mr. Green writes:

Our guesstimates for the past two years look considerably weaker than the
official estimates: our guesstimates for 2011 and 2012 are 7.2% and 5.5%,
respectively, compared with the official prints of 9.3% and 7.3%.

Most economists still seem to believe China's G.D.P. growth rate is closer to
the official figures. In early February, an official of the Reserve Bank of
Australia  gave a speech titled "Reflections on China and Mining Investment in
Australia" in which he said that China's G.D.P. growth has stabilized around 8
percent. Australia's economy is heavily dependent on China, and the Australian
central bank still maintains a relatively bullish view about China's future
demand for commodities.

The stakes are high, especially for economies like Australia that are heavily
reliant on commodities exports to China. One observer argues that at least in
the short-term, Chinese commodity demand will be strong, maybe not because the
Chinese economy is "healthy" but rather because total lending in January 2013
grew 15 percent faster than it did at the peak of China's credit boom in 2009.

PERHAPS THE MOST IMPORTANT CHALLENGE  for the Chinese economy is how quickly it
can rebalance from credit to consumption-driven growth. Michael Pettis, a Wall
Street refugee who teaches at Peking University, has been one of the most
prominent foreign voices on this topic. He has just written a new book, "The
Great Rebalancing: Trade, Conflict, and the Perilous Road Ahead for the World
Economy," and is now giving interviews on his book tour, including "weaning
China off credit-fueled growth" and how to spot early signs of economic reform.

Eswar Prasad, a former International Monetary Fund official with responsibility
for China, seems a bit more optimistic than Mr. Pettis about the rebalancing
efforts and wrote on Tuesday that Beijing was making progress toward
rebalancing:

New data suggest that it is time to revise the view that China's growth is
driven largely by exports and investment. Private and government consumption
together accounted for more than half of China's output growth in 2011-12,
signaling a big shift in the composition of domestic demand. Physical capital
investment, the main driver of growth over the previous decade, is no longer the
dominant contributor to growth. As for exports, a shrinking trade balance has in
fact dragged down growth these past two years.

In January, an "airpocalypse" across much of China led to plenty of hacking
coughs, including for yours truly. But a different kind of hacking in China is
noticeable in February.

BusinessWeek Magazine's cover article last week was "A Chinese Hacker's Identity
Unmasked." On Tuesday, The New York Times reported  on its front page that
"China's Army Is Seen as Tied to Hacking Against U.S." The Chinese government
responded that it opposes the hacking allegations.

A week ago, President Obama signed an executive order about protection against
cyber attacks, and according to The New York Times article, "The United States
government is planning to begin a more aggressive defense against Chinese
hacking groups, starting on Tuesday."

The article does not specify what is entailed in a more aggressive defense, but
if the United States wants concrete results then naming and shaming people and
groups in China may be just one piece of a much broader response.


     ·    A New Year, but Some Old Issues
     ·    Questions About China's Growth, Censorship and Air Pollution


LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 20, 2013 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sergeant Charged In Child Porn Case

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 180 words


A New York City police sergeant was arraigned on Tuesday on numerous child
pornography charges, after internal affairs investigators found several explicit
images and videos on his laptop computer.

In several recordings found on the computer, the sergeant, Alberto Randazzo, is
heard providing ''verbal instructions during a cyber video chat session'' to an
unidentified woman lying in bed with an infant, who appears to be 1 to 2 years
old, and directing the woman to ''perform certain sex acts on the infant,'' the
police said.

Also uncovered were two videos involving a man engaged in sex acts with a girl,
about 8 to 10 years old, according to a criminal complaint filed by the Queens
district attorney's office.

Prosecutors charged Sergeant Randazzo, 36, with 11 counts of use of a child in a
sexual performance, 23 counts of promoting a sexual performance by a child and
23 counts of possessing a sexual performance by a child, the complaint states.
He has been suspended from the force.

Sergeant Randazzo's lawyer, Anthony DiFiore, did not return a phone call on
Tuesday evening.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/20/nyregion/new-york-police-sergeant-held-on-chil
d-pornography-charges.html

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 20, 2013 Wednesday
                        The International Herald Tribune

Uniting for Cyberdefense

BYLINE: By RENÉ OBERMANN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg.

LENGTH: 854 words


The discussion on cyberthreats has finally gone public. For years, governments
have treated damage from cyberattacks as classified information, while the
private sector has kept damage secret in order not to scare off customers and
investors.

Recent high-profile cyberattacks such as those on The New York Times, The Wall
Street Journal and the U.S. Federal Reserve are only the tip of the iceberg.
Cyberattacks, whether random or targeted, whether successful or not, have
increased to the point that we are seeing a paradigm shift: We have become aware
that transparency and shared knowledge can increase protection and strengthen
security.

The damage resulting from malicious cyberactivities, such as theft of personal
data or intellectual property, is enormous, even if mainly economic for now.
But, like any other terror attack, cyberattacks have the potential to damage
critical infrastructure and to create unprecedented disasters.

Last year, Deutsche Telekom (I am the chief executive) started to disclose
information about cyberattacks. To institutionalize this approach, we organized
-- together with the Munich Security Conference -- a Cyber Security Summit with
major German industries. The positive reception encouraged us to set up a
follow-up summit in 2013.

A ''neighborhood watch'' is key to success in cyberdefense. We need to establish
''single points of contact'' for rapid alerts and information exchange across
all industries. A good role model for this is the Community Emergency Response
Team (CERT) in the information technology sector. To create additional
awareness, we are developing a ''real time situation monitor'' with an actual
overview on imminent cyberthreats. Sharing information while an attack is
happening will allow us to update our security measures in real time.

Transparency about cyberattacks has only just begun and we need to accelerate
our efforts. Attackers use the advantages of combined forces. They bundle the
power of hundreds of thousands of computer systems in botnets in order to carry
out large-scale attacks.

Why don't we take the same approach when it comes to cybersecurity? Voluntary
information sharing is one element of such a collaborative effort; another could
be to share the resources already in place, including expert know-how, to make
our defensive efforts more powerful and efficient.

Industry, for the most part, is willing to do what it takes to secure
cyberspace. Other stakeholders have to do their homework as well. A concern of
industry is that rules and regulations have not kept pace with the technological
developments -- both in offense and defense.

A set of basic and accepted rules-of-the-road protects our physical highways and
traffic, and we have to have similar, internationally recognized rules for the
information highway. We must define standards and functionalities in order to
ensure a safe and coherent digital architecture. A good example is the German
security standard for ''smart meters'' that monitor and bill power consumption.

This will not be easy for the I.T. industry. In Europe, the sheer number of
Internet providers makes it difficult to find a common position. Again,
transparency and information sharing is essential: Every sound effort to
implement such rules and standards relies on feedback about vulnerabilities, as
well as data on the quantity, quality and origin of attacks. One cannot manage a
problem until one can measure it.

All stakeholders in the Internet ecosystem should join this ''collective
cybersecurity alliance.'' Hardware and software suppliers have the same
responsibility for cybersecurity as infrastructure providers, and must act on
it. Once a vulnerable product has been supplied, it is almost impossible to
achieve an appropriate level of security. The I.T. industry has to rethink this.
Cybersecurity will become more of a consideration for consumers.

But the end user -- the weakest link in cybersecurity -- must also act
responsibly. Homeowners secure their property when they go out; Internet users
must be as diligent in protecting digital assets. If all users kept their I.T.
systems up to date, most attacks would be unsuccessful.

Finally, we must accelerate innovation in cybersecurity. When the Internet was
designed, security was not a priority. Today, we see constantly evolving new
technologies -- such as mobile networks, smart grids or cloud computing -- and
ever-increasing interconnection. This opens doors to advanced threats. Thus our
defense capabilities need to be dynamic and flexible.

Very often, it is the agile, creative, technology-savvy start-up companies that
are best able to deal with new cyberthreats. We need to work with them and equip
them with appropriate venture capital.

In the long run, we simply cannot afford to lag behind the bad guys. To be sure,
we will not erase cyberattacks, much as we are unable to erase crime. But we
must at least aim to control and contain it, lest we find ourselves on the
losing end of a battle that threatens our prosperity, public safety and
ultimately national security.

René Obermann is the chief executive officer of Deutsche Telekom.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/20/opinion/global/uniting-for-cyberdefense.html

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Motherlode)

                           February 21, 2013 Thursday

'Sticks and Stones' Gives Parents Words to Talk Bullying

BYLINE: KJ DELL'ANTONIA

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 1615 words



HIGHLIGHT: Emily Bazelon, author of &#8220;Sticks and Stones,&#8221; answers the
question: should parents feel hopeful about bullying, or should we just curl up
in a helpless ball and weep?


Bullying is a topic that strikes fear and despair into my parently soul, and I'm
often reluctant to read about it (let alone write about it) because so much
that's out there feels hopeless, and I feel helpless. I don't understand what
motivates the bullies, or or what allows school administrators to stand by. I
identify too strongly with the victims. And I fear that, especially with the
increased opportunity for bullying social media provides, my children can't help
but number themselves among aggressors or victims one of these days - and I
won't know what to do about it.

Into that morass of personal confusion came "Sticks and Stones: Defeating the
Culture of Bullying and Rediscovering the Power of Character and Empathy" by
Emily Bazelon (once my editor at Slate). I had questions, most of them centered
around exactly how discouraged the average parent should feel about the
conversation around bullying. Emily had answers - most of them encouraging and
all of them at least helpful. Here's how our conversation went:

Q.

I have to be honest: as good as your work about bullying always is, sometimes
when I see that you've written something new, I don't want to read it. I don't
know what we should do about bullying at its worst! I just want to curl up in a
hopeless ball and weep.

A.

Oh, I don't feel like the book is a scary, alarmist document! I understand that,
of course, everyone feels that way. But mostly, what the book is about is the
idea that bad things happen to kids, and we really need to think through how to
prevent some of them, and how to respond better than most of the adults did in
the stories I tell. But also, most kids are resilient, and I really hope that
that lesson comes across.

Q.

So in writing the book, were you looking for this balance between wanting to
find the things that we can do to help the most vulnerable kids, and wanting to
leave space for the idea that most kids are resilient?

A.

Yes. And also that adversity is an important thing to experience. Most kids do
bounce back from cruelty, and they learn from it. But we do have to find ways to
protect those who can't.

Q.

One thing I loved about "Sticks and Stones" was the way you captured the
perspective of all the people involved in numerous bullying incidents - not just
the victims, but the aggressors, and the administrators who were trying to deal
with what were almost never simple situations. Tell me about someone who struck
that balance, between helping to get in the way of some of the worst behavior
without squashing all of the behavior.

A.

There's a guidance counselor at Freedom Middle School, in Georgia. She and the
principal had decided that if they had worries about the kids' safety based on
things she saw online, they would take action. A student came to her, upset
about some messages that had been posted about the student on Formspring, which
allows members to anonymously post things to one another, and these were really
cruel messages, urging her to kill herself - which I never understand, but which
is fairly common - and the counselor, Lauren Moss, had to decide what to do.

In the end, she went on the site, and she signed in as herself, and she left a
message there that any of the students doing this could see, saying, this is
your guidance counselor, and I want you to know that I'm here. I'm reading all
of this. And she called some of the parents of students she could identify -
this is all public; it's a public site - and she told them what was happening.
She basically let the kids know that someone was paying attention to what they
were doing, and I think one really important part of that message is that a lot
of times, kids just don't think anyone is paying attention to what they are
saying online.

In that school and in other schools, when adults are saying to teenagers that
people are reading, and that they need to slow down, and reflect on what they're
saying - it helps. It strikes a sensible balance between hovering and reading
everything and invading the kids' space, and letting them know that people,
adults and other kids, are paying attention.

Q.

Did that story make you feel like social media itself - Formspring and other
sites - should do more?

A.

Ms. Moss did let Formspring know what was happening. She never heard back, and
that's consistent with what I hear from school administrators - that the sites
don't respond to them. These are the smartest techies in the world. Can they
improve on the situation? Yes, of course.

Q.

You also wrote a new piece for The Atlantic, How to Stop the Bullies, more
narrowly focused on what is being done, and what could be done, to specifically
prevent "cyber-bullying." I read it feeling like you were pretty encouraged that
some of the sites, like Facebook, were taking some action.

A.

I'm of two minds. I think there are some really good people out there, trying
really hard, but there are also a whole lot of commercial reasons for them not
to do the right thing. Their whole business model depends on people getting used
to living their lives in the open, and habituating kids to widespread sharing.
Now, they do deal with the bullying and harassment separately, and that's
encouraging, but I also think they have a lot more work to do.

One thing that I was not impressed with was how little Facebook worked with
schools, and how little they wanted to work with them. Even just having a
special in-box for school officials, to report a particular online brush fire,
would help, but there's no way. Given how much I'm hearing from school officials
about how much that would help, that seems like a missed opportunity to me.

It isn't just Facebook, it's just that Facebook is sort of the elephant in the
room. Facebook sets the tone.

Q.

So, besides trying to help our kids navigate the online space, and telling
Facebook that we want it to be more responsive to these things, what do you see
as something important that parents can do?

A.

It's obviously a huge challenge for parents, finding the balance you strike
between protecting kids and expecting them to be a little bit tough, and learn
how to stand up for themselves. It starts with that base idea that you have to
know your kid, and know what they're capable of, and give them room to do what
they can do - not step in reflexively whenever there's a problem. I think that
builds some resilience in.

Q.

What can schools do?

A.

We're really at the frontier of this. Schools are just seeing the impact of the
laws requiring them to have policies in place to deal with bullying, and
exploring what's next with rules about cyberspace and what they should do there.

Q.

I'm thinking back to the counselor at Freedom Middle School, and how she didn't
spend too much time worrying about what she was allowed to do - she focused on
what she could do.

A.

Well, she was really smart, and she and the principal did have this standard,
that they would intervene if a student's safety was in danger. That's not the
Supreme Court standard, which is that whatever is happening "causes a material
disruption in school." In any case, the key is that this middle school didn't
try to punish anyone. It wasn't a disciplinary thing. The guidance counselor was
just trying to help, and it's clear that schools do have the power to help.

Q.

We worry so much about what schools have to do, and what they can legally do -
I'm not sure it gets said enough that there are ways schools can help that we
don't necessarily have to put rules and laws around.

A.

True - but the question then becomes, do they have the resources to help, and
are we expecting schools to do monitoring and things that they don't the
resources to do and then blaming them when things go wrong? There's no
one-size-fits-all solution. Bullying cuts across class and it affects every
school, so it's something we can all talk about together, but we have to look
for solutions that don't rely on money or charismatic leadership. And we have to
find ways to help kids to help themselves.

Q.

Like what?

A.

When kids discover that bullying isn't the norm - everyone doesn't do it - they
respond positively. Bullying drops, and students become more active about
reporting it. Schools can use this message to start changing their own culture.
For examples, schools have done internal surveys and then put up posters saying
things like "90 percent of students here don't deliberately exclude other
students," and seen the rate of bullying that kids report drop further.

Q.

I wanted to tell you that before I read "Sticks and Stones," I'd been struggling
to find a way to approach a school bullying incident with one of my children. He
was totally stonewalling me - he didn't want to talk about it. But when I
started to tell him about some of the work being done on creating algorithms
that could spot bullying comments on Facebook posts, (from the Atlantic article)
and talked about "drama" instead of bullying, the way the students in the book
did, he opened up some, and we at least got the conversation started. There's
more to come, but I feel a whole lot readier for it now.

A.

Oh, that's lovely. I'm so glad the book sparked that kind of conversation -
that's just what it's for. My dream is that parents will read it with their
kids, in kid-parent book clubs, or listen to the audiobook together. I hope it
will help.

Hear Emily Bazelon talk about The Bully Problem with Book Review Editor Sam
Tanenhaus on the Book Review Podcast.

Related: Effects of Bullying Last Well Into Adulthood, Study Finds.


     ·    What Should the Parent of a Bully Do Next?
     ·    Always! Be! Learning! Academics Meets P.E. Class
     ·    The Motherlode Blogroll Needs Blogs
     ·    Helping a Worrier Become a Warrior
     ·    Still Waiting for the Bus


LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                    (At War)

                            February 22, 2013 Friday

A Modern Medal Is Met with Modern Protest

BYLINE: HEATHER MURPHY

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 846 words



HIGHLIGHT: The new Distinguished Warfare medal &#8212; immediately dubbed the
Drone Medal &#8212; has spawned memes and an online petition.


It is only fitting that the announcement of a medal created for the digital age
spawned its own Internet memes. As soon as Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta
announced the creation of the new Distinguished Warfare medal - immediately
dubbed the Drone Medal - images such as the one below began appearing on blog
after blog; in tweet after retweet.

The medal, Mr. Panetta explained, is intended to provide "recognition for the
extraordinary achievements that directly impact on combat operations, but that
do not involve acts of valor or physical risk that combat entails," such as
those piloting Predator or Reaper drones from a remote trailer. The medal has
sparked much Photoshopped humor and heated online debate, much of it focusing on
the Pentagon's decision to rank it above the Purple Heart and the Bronze Star,
both given to troops in combat.

As the Distinguished Warfare medal heads toward production, more than 13,000
people have signed an online petitiondemanding that the status of the medal be
revised.

"Bronze Stars are commonly awarded with a Valor device in recognition of a
soldier's service in the heat of combat while on the ground in the theater of
operation," the petition states. "Under no circumstance should a medal that is
designed to honor a pilot, that is controlling a drone via remote control,
thousands of miles away from the theater of operation, rank above a medal that
involves a soldier being in the line of fire on the ground."

This was a sentiment echoed by many on Twitter:

Drone Medal is appropriate...but not ABOVE Bronze Star & Purple Heart!
http://t.co/jcfcBT5BF6

- Doug Brower (@Mushbrower)22 Feb 13

Higher Medal for drone operators? US soldiers fighting on ground demoralized
http://t.co/S6QjWd8JvP

- Unity Media News (@unitymedianews1)22 Feb 13

Similar commentary could be found in opinion pieces on news sites, such as The
Business Insider, which called it "The Most Ridiculous Thing The Pentagon Could
Do" and in longer anecdotes of protest on the comments section of theUnited
States Air Force announcement:

2/21/2013 12:28:33 AM ET
I don't like this at all my father was in ground combat from 1944 to 1945 in
France Germany and Czechoslovakia his highest medal was the bronze star I have a
copy of the award hanging in my living room I can't even imagine what he went
through. Now some guy sitting in an air conditioned building in Nevada is going
to get a medal rated higher than the bronze star and the purple heart. I don't
care how many terrorists he killed or how many hours he sat in front of that
screen how motivated he is or how well he does his job it is inconcievable to me
that he or she can possibly earn a medal rated this high. Giving them a medal is
ok but lets not degrade the honor of others who have risked their lives and in
some cases actually been wounded in combat serving our country.
-Michael Sharkey, Trier Germany

According to the Defense Department, there is no controversy about the medal
among military leaders. Each branch is in the process of drawing up their own
specific guidelines and within two for four months, the first Distinguished
Warfare Medals will be awarded.

"This is not a medal that will be awarded with the frequency of these other
ones,"  Lt. Cmdr. Nate Christensen, a Defense Department spokesman, told At War,
when asked why the medal should be above the Bronze Star.

Although there were some forms of recognition for drone operators and cyber
operators before, none recognized truly exceptional acts of service, he said.

"This medal is visionary because it fills a void that existed before," he said.

Although few people other than Pentagon officials came to the defense of the
medal, some did circulatea pieceby Maj. David Blair in the Air and Space Power
Journal outlining the case for medals for drone operators.

For instance, consider a scenario in which Predator crews track a critical high­
value target to a safe house where he is then kinetically struck by a
dynami­cally retasked F­16. In this case, both platforms' crews perform their
du­ties with excellence and professionalism. Perhaps that excellence merits
decorations, or perhaps "doing your job" shouldn't merit decoration. Ei­ther
way, giving the F­16 pilot an award for heroism while excluding the Predator
crews from consideration for the same sends a very clear message about what the
institution believes is worth recognizing. This message ripples back into
commissioning sources and light ­training pipelines, perpetuating perceptions
and relative performance discrepan­cies through selection bias.

Published in July 2012, months before the announcement of the news medal, Major
Blair's piece did not address the flip-side: What happens when a member of the
Predator crew receives a medal deemed more prestigious than the one awarded to
the the F-16 pilot?


     ·    Database of Veterans' Medals Cited as Alternative to 'Stolen Valor'
     ·    Korean War Veteran Is Buried Six Decades After He Disappeared
     ·    Chuck Hagel and the Wisdom of Grunts
     ·    Women Have Long Served in Combat Roles
     ·    News Roundup: Panetta Defends Drone Strikes in Pakistan; Courts India


LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 23, 2013 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alan F. Westin, Who Transformed Privacy Debate Before the Web Era, Dies at 83

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1138 words


Alan F. Westin, a legal scholar who nearly half a century ago defined the modern
right to privacy in the incipient computer age -- a definition that anticipated
the reach of Big Brother and helped circumscribe its limits -- died on Monday in
Saddle River, N.J. He was 83.

The cause was cancer, his family said.

A lawyer and political scientist, Mr. Westin was at his death emeritus professor
of public law at Columbia, where he had taught for nearly 40 years.

Through his work -- notably his book ''Privacy and Freedom,'' published in 1967
and still a canonical text -- Mr. Westin was considered to have created, almost
single-handedly, the modern field of privacy law. He testified frequently on the
subject before Congress, spoke about it on television and radio and wrote about
it for newspapers and magazines.

''He was the most important scholar of privacy since Louis Brandeis,'' Jeffrey
Rosen, a professor of law at George Washington University and the legal affairs
editor of The New Republic, said in a telephone interview on Thursday. ''He
transformed the privacy debate by defining privacy as the ability to control how
much about ourselves we reveal to others.''

Since the first hominid grunted gossip about the hominid next door, every new
communications medium has entailed new impingements on privacy. In a seminal
1890 article in The Harvard Law Review, Mr. Brandeis, the future Supreme Court
Justice, and his law partner, Samuel D. Warren, were the first to articulate
privacy as a legal right, defining it as ''the right to be let alone.''

Brandeis and Warren were concerned primarily with covert photography; later
scholarship, including work by Mr. Westin in the 1950s, centered on things like
illegal wiretapping.

But by the 1960s and '70s, as the widespread computerization of legal,
financial, medical and other personal records loomed, technology had outrun the
law.

Reproductive rights cases of the period -- including the landmark Supreme Court
cases Griswold v. Connecticut in 1965 and Roe v. Wade in 1973 -- held that the
Constitution protected an individual's right to privacy in matters of the human
body, including contraceptive use and abortion rights. But the law was largely
silent on the question of how personal data might be used by government or the
private sector.

During these years, long before the personal computer and longer still before
the Internet, Mr. Westin set out to codify just this kind of privacy for the
modern age.

''He knew social history, and he could appreciate the directions that the
technology was pushing the social contract,'' Lance J. Hoffman, the director of
George Washington's Cyber Security Policy and Research Institute, said in an
interview.

Individuals, Mr. Westin argued in ''Privacy and Freedom,'' have the right to
determine how much of their personal information is disclosed and to whom, how
it should be maintained and how disseminated.

''This concept became the cornerstone of our modern right to privacy,'' said
Marc Rotenberg, the executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information
Center, an advocacy group in Washington. ''Part of 'Privacy and Freedom' is the
argument that privacy enables freedom.''

''Privacy and Freedom'' received two prestigious journalism prizes, the George
Polk Award and the Hillman Prize.

The book, along with other work by Mr. Westin, is widely considered the
foundation of a spate of modern privacy laws, among them the Privacy Act of
1974, the first law to delimit the gathering and use of personal information by
the federal government.

Mr. Westin was no absolutist. In his early work on wiretapping, for instance, he
condoned its use in certain instances, including cases where national security
was at stake.

His argument prefigured the current national debate about privacy engendered by
post-9/11 legislation like the Patriot Act, which Mr. Westin, in a 2003
interview, called ''a justified piece of legislation.''

''He insisted on a balance between the competing demands of privacy, disclosure
and surveillance,'' Mr. Rosen said. ''Much of his work in the 1960s and '70s
appears so prescient after 9/11 and in the age of Internet.''

When it came to the use of consumers' personal data by corporations, Mr. Westin
also steered a middle course. Consumers were entitled to withhold such data, he
argued, but were equally entitled, if they wished, to have it used to alert them
to products and services targeted to their interests. (This stance caused Mr.
Westin to be accused by some critics of allying himself too closely with
business interests.)

Mr. Westin, who in the 1970s was editor in chief of The Civil Liberties Review,
a publication of the American Civil Liberties Foundation, published and edited
the newsletter Privacy & American Business from 1993 to 2006. He was a
consultant on privacy issues to major corporations, including Equifax, the
consumer credit reporting giant; GlaxoSmithKline, the pharmaceutical concern;
and Verizon Communications.

Mr. Westin's wife died before him, as did a son, David. His survivors include a
son, Jeremy; a daughter, Debra Westin; and three grandchildren.

A posthumous book by Mr. Westin, about privacy as a historically and
philosophically Jewish construct, is being completed by Mr. Rosen.

In recent years, Mr. Westin turned his attention to the Niagara of personal data
loosed by Google, Facebook and their ilk. Trying to stem this tide was a
hopeless task, and he knew it.

''He recognized that the problems of protecting privacy are now so daunting that
they can't be dealt with by law alone, but require a mix of legal, social and
technological solutions,'' Mr. Rosen said.

The son of Irving Westin and the former Etta Furman, Alan Furman Westin was born
in Manhattan on Oct. 11, 1929; received a bachelor's degree in political science
from the University of Florida in 1948, followed by a law degree from Harvard in
1951; was admitted to the bar in 1952; married Bea Shapoff, a teacher, in 1954
in a ceremony in which the bride wore a waltz-length white gown; joined the
Columbia faculty in 1959; earned a Ph.D. in political science from Harvard in
1965 (his dissertation topic was ''Privacy in Western Political History'');
lived for many years in Teaneck, N.J.; edited a string of books, including
''Freedom Now! The Civil-Rights Struggle in America'' (1964), ''Information
Technology in a Democracy'' (1971) and ''Getting Angry Six Times a Week: A
Portfolio of Political Cartoons'' (1979); once made a sound recording titled ''I
Wonder Who's Bugging You Now''; was a member of the American Civil Liberties
Union, the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith and the American Jewish
Congress; had a Social Security number obtained in Massachusetts; and was a
registered Democrat who last voted in 2011 -- all public information, obtainable
online at the touch of a button or two.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/23/us/alan-f-westin-scholar-who-defined-right-to-
privacy-dies-at-83.html

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alan F. Westin set out to codify privacy for the modern age.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEITH MEYERS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 24, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Major Banks Aid In Payday Loans Banned By States

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1408 words


Major banks have quickly become behind-the-scenes allies of Internet-based
payday lenders that offer short-term loans with interest rates sometimes
exceeding 500 percent.

With 15 states banning payday loans, a growing number of the lenders have set up
online operations in more hospitable states or far-flung locales like Belize,
Malta and the West Indies to more easily evade statewide caps on interest rates.

While the banks, which include giants like JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and
Wells Fargo, do not make the loans, they are a critical link for the lenders,
enabling the lenders to withdraw payments automatically from borrowers' bank
accounts, even in states where the loans are banned entirely. In some cases, the
banks allow lenders to tap checking accounts even after the customers have
begged them to stop the withdrawals.

''Without the assistance of the banks in processing and sending electronic
funds, these lenders simply couldn't operate,'' said Josh Zinner, co-director of
the Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project, which works with
community groups in New York.

The banking industry says it is simply serving customers who have authorized the
lenders to withdraw money from their accounts. ''The industry is not in a
position to monitor customer accounts to see where their payments are going,''
said Virginia O'Neill, senior counsel with the American Bankers Association.

But state and federal officials are taking aim at the banks' role at a time when
authorities are increasing their efforts to clamp down on payday lending and its
practice of providing quick money to borrowers who need cash.

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau are examining banks' roles in the online loans, according to several
people with direct knowledge of the matter. Benjamin M. Lawsky, who heads New
York State's Department of Financial Services, is investigating how banks enable
the online lenders to skirt New York law and make loans to residents of the
state, where interest rates are capped at 25 percent.

For the banks, it can be a lucrative partnership. At first blush, processing
automatic withdrawals hardly seems like a source of profit. But many customers
are already on shaky financial footing. The withdrawals often set off a cascade
of fees from problems like overdrafts. Roughly 27 percent of payday loan
borrowers say that the loans caused them to overdraw their accounts, according
to a report released this month by the Pew Charitable Trusts. That fee income is
coveted, given that financial regulations limiting fees on debit and credit
cards have cost banks billions of dollars.

Some state and federal authorities say the banks' role in enabling the lenders
has frustrated government efforts to shield people from predatory loans -- an
issue that gained urgency after reckless mortgage lending helped precipitate the
2008 financial crisis.

Lawmakers, led by Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, introduced a bill in
July aimed at reining in the lenders, in part, by forcing them to abide by the
laws of the state where the borrower lives, rather than where the lender is. The
legislation, pending in Congress, would also allow borrowers to cancel automatic
withdrawals more easily. ''Technology has taken a lot of these scams online, and
it's time to crack down,'' Mr. Merkley said in a statement when the bill was
introduced.

While the loans are simple to obtain -- some online lenders promise approval in
minutes with no credit check -- they are tough to get rid of. Customers who want
to repay their loan in full typically must contact the online lender at least
three days before the next withdrawal. Otherwise, the lender automatically
renews the loans at least monthly and withdraws only the interest owed. Under
federal law, customers are allowed to stop authorized withdrawals from their
account. Still, some borrowers say their banks do not heed requests to stop the
loans.

Ivy Brodsky, 37, thought she had figured out a way to stop six payday lenders
from taking money from her account when she visited her Chase branch in Brighton
Beach in Brooklyn in March to close it. But Chase kept the account open and
between April and May, the six Internet lenders tried to withdraw money from Ms.
Brodsky's account 55 times, according to bank records reviewed by The New York
Times. Chase charged her $1,523 in fees -- a combination of 44 insufficient fund
fees, extended overdraft fees and service fees.

For Subrina Baptiste, 33, an educational assistant in Brooklyn, the overdraft
fees levied by Chase cannibalized her child support income. She said she applied
for a $400 loan from Loanshoponline.com and a $700 loan from Advancemetoday.com
in 2011. The loans, with annual interest rates of 730 percent and 584 percent
respectively, skirt New York law.

Ms. Baptiste said she asked Chase to revoke the automatic withdrawals in October
2011, but was told that she had to ask the lenders instead. In one month, her
bank records show, the lenders tried to take money from her account at least six
times. Chase charged her $812 in fees and deducted over $600 from her
child-support payments to cover them.

''I don't understand why my own bank just wouldn't listen to me,'' Ms. Baptiste
said, adding that Chase ultimately closed her account last January, three months
after she asked.

A spokeswoman for Bank of America said the bank always honored requests to stop
automatic withdrawals. Wells Fargo declined to comment. Kristin Lemkau, a
spokeswoman for Chase, said: ''We are working with the customers to resolve
these cases.'' Online lenders say they work to abide by state laws.

Payday lenders have been dogged by controversy almost from their inception two
decades ago from storefront check-cashing stores. In 2007, federal lawmakers
restricted the lenders from focusing on military members. Across the country,
states have steadily imposed caps on interest rates and fees that effectively
ban the high-rate loans.

While there are no exact measures of how many lenders have migrated online,
roughly three million Americans obtained an Internet payday loan in 2010,
according to a July report by the Pew Charitable Trusts. By 2016, Internet loans
will make up roughly 60 percent of the total payday loans, up from about 35
percent in 2011, according to John Hecht, an analyst with the investment bank
Stephens Inc. As of 2011, he said, the volume of online payday loans was $13
billion, up more than 120 percent from $5.8 billion in 2006.

Facing increasingly inhospitable states, the lenders have also set up shop
offshore. A former used-car dealership owner, who runs a series of online
lenders through a shell corporation in Grenada, outlined the benefits of
operating remotely in a 2005 deposition. Put simply, it was ''lawsuit protection
and tax reduction,'' he said. Other lenders are based in Belize, Malta, the Isle
of Man and the West Indies, according to federal court records.

At an industry conference last year, payday lenders discussed the benefits of
heading offshore. Jer Ayler, president of the payday loan consultant Trihouse
Inc., pinpointed Cancún, the Bahamas and Costa Rica as particularly fertile
locales.

State prosecutors have been battling to keep online lenders from illegally
making loans to residents where the loans are restricted. In December, Lori
Swanson, Minnesota's attorney general, settled with Sure Advance L.L.C. over
claims that the online lender was operating without a license to make loans with
interest rates of up to 1,564 percent. In Illinois, Attorney General Lisa
Madigan is investigating a number of online lenders.

Arkansas's attorney general, Dustin McDaniel, has been targeting lenders
illegally making loans in his state, and says the Internet firms are tough to
fight. ''The Internet knows no borders,'' he said. ''There are layer upon layer
of cyber-entities and some are difficult to trace.''

Last January, he sued the operator of a number of online lenders, claiming that
the firms were breaking state law in Arkansas, which caps annual interest rates
on loans at 17 percent.

Now the Online Lenders Alliance, a trade group, is backing legislation that
would grant a federal charter for payday lenders. In supporting the bill, Lisa
McGreevy, the group's chief executive, said: ''A federal charter, as opposed to
the current conflicting state regulatory schemes, will establish one clear set
of rules for lenders to follow.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/24/business/major-banks-aid-in-payday-loans-banne
d-by-states.html

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Subrina Baptiste of Brooklyn says JPMorgan Chase allowed payday
lenders to seize child-support funds in her account. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V.
AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 24, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 716 words


8:30 P.M. (ABC) THE 85TH ANNUAL ACADEMY AWARDS Seth MacFarlane makes his debut
as host of this ceremony, broadcast live from the Dolby Theater in Los Angeles.
Oddsmakers are predicting that Daniel Day-Lewis will take home the Oscar for his
portrayal of Abraham Lincoln in Steven Spielberg's ''Lincoln,'' which earned 12
nominations, including best direction, picture, screenplay (for Tony Kushner),
supporting actor (Tommy Lee Jones) and supporting actress (Sally Field). The
best actress category ranges from 9-year-old Quvenzhané Wallis (of Benh
Zeitlin's ''Beasts of the Southern Wild,'' a debut feature that earned four
nominations, including best directing and best picture) to Emmanuelle Riva, (of
Michael Haneke's ''Amour,'' which received five nods, including best direction,
picture and foreign language film) who turns 86 on Sunday. The best picture
category is filled out by Ben Affleck's ''Argo,'' Quentin Tarantino's ''Django
Unchained,'' Tom Hooper's ''Les Misérables,'' Ang Lee's ''Life of Pi,'' David O.
Russell's ''Silver Linings Playbook'' and Kathryn Bigelow's ''Zero Dark
Thirty.'' Mr. Lee and Mr. Russell are also nominated for best director.

The countdown begins at 1:30 on E!; at 5 on the TV Guide Channel; and at 6 on
Channel 11. Red-carpet coverage (above, the carpet being rolled out) begins at 7
on ABC. Postshow coverage follows at 11:30 on E!

10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY Senators Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, and
Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, discuss the efforts of President Obama
and Congress to negotiate a deal before the sequestration deadline, on Friday.
Governors Jack Markell, Democrat of Delaware, and Scott Walker, Republican of
Wisconsin, tell how states will be affected if a deal is not reached. The
discussion continues with Senators Kelly Ayotte, Republican of New Hampshire,
and Tim Kaine, Democrat of Virginia, and Governors Bob McDonnell, Republican of
Virginia; Martin O'Malley, Democrat of Maryland; Jan Brewer, Republican of
Arizona; and John Hickenlooper, Democrat of Colorado, on ''Face the Nation,'' at
10:30 on CBS; and Governors Bobby Jindal, Republican of Louisiana, and Deval
Patrick, Democrat of Massachusetts, and the financial analysts Maria Bartiromo
and Jim Cramer on ''Meet the Press,'' at 10:30 on NBC.

10 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK Representatives Mike Rogers, Republican of Michigan, and
Eliot Engel, Democrat of New York, debate how the United States should respond
to the cyber threat from China.

8 P.M. (Discovery) SILVER RUSH Mike Rowe narrates this three-part series, which
follows Odyssey Marine Exploration, a deep-sea recovery team, as it retrieves 48
tons of silver bullion, left, from the SS Gairsoppa, a British freighter that
was torpedoed in 1941 off the coast of Ireland with a reported $200 million in
cargo. The catch: the shipwreck lies deeper than the Titanic, at nearly three
miles below the surface of the North Atlantic.

9 P.M. (13, 49) PAGE EIGHT The actor Bill Nighy has called the playwright David
Hare the most influential person in his career. Their 30-year collaboration has
included ''A Map of the World'' at the National Theater in 1983; ''Skylight,''
in a part he took over from Michael Gambon in 1995; and ''The Vertical Hour,''
Mr. Nighy's 2006 Broadway debut. In this ''Masterpiece Contemporary'' encore
presentation, Mr. Hare has given Mr. Nighy another seductively complex character
to plumb in Johnny Worricker, an aging intelligence officer and, suddenly, a
person of interest for the publisher (Rachel Weisz, left) who lives opposite
him. ''Page Eight'' is a yearning ''for a world where people behave decently and
discreetly,'' Mr. Nighy said in an interview last year. ''You get to embody that
sense of enthusiasm for the decency option, rather than a culture of cynicism
and corruption that has characterized public life in recent years.''

9 P.M. (DIY) A BRYK AT A TIME In Season 1 of ''Family Under Construction,''
Danielle Bryk turned a run-down rooming house into her home. Now she's starting
her own design firm. In this series premiere, she updates a bathroom for a
family of five. At 9:30, she comes to the rescue of a friend.

9 P.M. (HBO) GIRLS Hannah (Lena Dunham) travels upstate. In ''Enlightened,'' at
9:30, Amy (Laura Dern) meets the enemy (James Rebhorn). KATHRYN SHATTUCK

URL:

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 24, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 716 words


8:30 P.M. (ABC) THE 85TH ANNUAL ACADEMY AWARDS Seth MacFarlane makes his debut
as host of this ceremony, broadcast live from the Dolby Theater in Los Angeles.
Oddsmakers are predicting that Daniel Day-Lewis will take home the Oscar for his
portrayal of Abraham Lincoln in Steven Spielberg's ''Lincoln,'' which earned 12
nominations, including best direction, picture, screenplay (for Tony Kushner),
supporting actor (Tommy Lee Jones) and supporting actress (Sally Field). The
best actress category ranges from 9-year-old Quvenzhané Wallis (of Benh
Zeitlin's ''Beasts of the Southern Wild,'' a debut feature that earned four
nominations, including best directing and best picture) to Emmanuelle Riva, (of
Michael Haneke's ''Amour,'' which received five nods, including best direction,
picture and foreign language film) who turns 86 on Sunday. The best picture
category is filled out by Ben Affleck's ''Argo,'' Quentin Tarantino's ''Django
Unchained,'' Tom Hooper's ''Les Misérables,'' Ang Lee's ''Life of Pi,'' David O.
Russell's ''Silver Linings Playbook'' and Kathryn Bigelow's ''Zero Dark
Thirty.'' Mr. Lee and Mr. Russell are also nominated for best director.

The countdown begins at 1:30 on E!; at 5 on the TV Guide Channel; and at 6 on
Channel 11. Red-carpet coverage (above, the carpet being rolled out) begins at 7
on ABC. Postshow coverage follows at 11:30 on E!

10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY Senators Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, and
Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, discuss the efforts of President Obama
and Congress to negotiate a deal before the sequestration deadline, on Friday.
Governors Jack Markell, Democrat of Delaware, and Scott Walker, Republican of
Wisconsin, tell how states will be affected if a deal is not reached. The
discussion continues with Senators Kelly Ayotte, Republican of New Hampshire,
and Tim Kaine, Democrat of Virginia, and Governors Bob McDonnell, Republican of
Virginia; Martin O'Malley, Democrat of Maryland; Jan Brewer, Republican of
Arizona; and John Hickenlooper, Democrat of Colorado, on ''Face the Nation,'' at
10:30 on CBS; and Governors Bobby Jindal, Republican of Louisiana, and Deval
Patrick, Democrat of Massachusetts, and the financial analysts Maria Bartiromo
and Jim Cramer on ''Meet the Press,'' at 10:30 on NBC.

10 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK Representatives Mike Rogers, Republican of Michigan, and
Eliot Engel, Democrat of New York, debate how the United States should respond
to the cyber threat from China.

8 P.M. (Discovery) SILVER RUSH Mike Rowe narrates this three-part series, which
follows Odyssey Marine Exploration, a deep-sea recovery team, as it retrieves 48
tons of silver bullion, left, from the SS Gairsoppa, a British freighter that
was torpedoed in 1941 off the coast of Ireland with a reported $200 million in
cargo. The catch: the shipwreck lies deeper than the Titanic, at nearly three
miles below the surface of the North Atlantic.

9 P.M. (13, 49) PAGE EIGHT The actor Bill Nighy has called the playwright David
Hare the most influential person in his career. Their 30-year collaboration has
included ''A Map of the World'' at the National Theater in 1983; ''Skylight,''
in a part he took over from Michael Gambon in 1995; and ''The Vertical Hour,''
Mr. Nighy's 2006 Broadway debut. In this ''Masterpiece Contemporary'' encore
presentation, Mr. Hare has given Mr. Nighy another seductively complex character
to plumb in Johnny Worricker, an aging intelligence officer and, suddenly, a
person of interest for the publisher (Rachel Weisz, left) who lives opposite
him. ''Page Eight'' is a yearning ''for a world where people behave decently and
discreetly,'' Mr. Nighy said in an interview last year. ''You get to embody that
sense of enthusiasm for the decency option, rather than a culture of cynicism
and corruption that has characterized public life in recent years.''

9 P.M. (DIY) A BRYK AT A TIME In Season 1 of ''Family Under Construction,''
Danielle Bryk turned a run-down rooming house into her home. Now she's starting
her own design firm. In this series premiere, she updates a bathroom for a
family of five. At 9:30, she comes to the rescue of a friend.

9 P.M. (HBO) GIRLS Hannah (Lena Dunham) travels upstate. In ''Enlightened,'' at
9:30, Amy (Laura Dern) meets the enemy (James Rebhorn). KATHRYN SHATTUCK

URL:

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            February 24, 2013 Sunday

Lawmakers Dismiss China's Denials Over Cyberattacks

BYLINE: BRIAN KNOWLTON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 480 words



HIGHLIGHT: In some of his strongest public remarks about the reported
Chinese-sponsored cyber attacks on American companies and government agencies,
the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee said that the situation was
&#8220;as bad as I&#8217;ve ever seen it and exponentially getting worse.&#8221;



In some of his strongest public remarks yet about the cyberattacks on American
companies and government agencies that are believed to have been sponsored by
China, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee said Sunday that the
situation was "as bad as I've ever seen it and exponentially getting worse."

The committee chairman, Representative Mike Rogers of Michigan, confirmed recent
reports of ambitious efforts by Chinese hacking groups - traced by one American
computer security firm to a Chinese military unit in Shanghai - to penetrate
American, European and Asian businesses and siphon off blueprints and corporate
secrets.

Obama administration officials have said the attacks have become so intense that
they threaten the fundamental relationship between the United States and China.
Beijing has denied any role in computer hacking, saying the activity is illegal.

Asked on the ABC News program "This Week" whether he believed that the Chinese
government and military were behind the economic espionage, Mr. Rogers replied,
"Beyond a shadow of a doubt."

He said the attacks were illegal and unprecedented in scope, and that the United
States was not currently able to protect American companies from them.

"We're not ready yet," he said. "We are completely vulnerable to this."

Mr. Rogers suggested that the United States use not just economic sanctions on
those responsible but also to take tough action against specific Chinese
individuals.

"I argue you need to start indicting bad actors," he said. "You need to start
impacting individuals' ability who are participating in this activity in China
to get visas, their families to get visas."

"It's that serious," he said.

Representative Eliot L. Engel of New York, the ranking Democrat on the House
Foreign Affairs Committee, said on the same program that he had confronted top
Chinese officials with the accusations during a recent visit to Beijing. "They
just let it roll off their back," he said. "They pooh-poohed it." He said
Washington should make it clear to the Chinese that "there's a price to pay."

While some reports have suggested that the United States and Israel were likely
behind cyberattacks against Iran's nuclear program, Mr. Rogers made two points:
First, he said, that people should be "very cautious about ascribing authorship"
for those attacks and, second, that such defensive attacks were different from
the sort of economic espionage that China is suspected to be involved in.

That, he said, was why he would "send a message to China that you cannot - if
you want to be an international player, you can't act like a thief in the
night."


     ·    Monday's Debate Puts Focus on Foreign Policy Clashes
     ·    Filing Trade Suit, Obama Raps Romney on China
     ·    Even the Chinese Muse About Hillary Clinton's Future
     ·    Romney Brushes Off Criticism Over Bain Purchase in China
     ·    Romney Condemns Biden's Comments on China's One-Child Policy


LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 25, 2013 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Cyberspace, New Cold War

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1382 words


WASHINGTON -- When the Obama administration circulated to the nation's Internet
providers last week a lengthy confidential list of computer addresses linked to
a hacking group that has stolen terabytes of data from American corporations, it
left out one crucial fact: that nearly every one of the digital addresses could
be traced to the neighborhood in Shanghai that is headquarters to the Chinese
military's cybercommand.

That deliberate omission underscored the heightened sensitivities inside the
Obama administration over just how directly to confront China's untested new
leadership over the hacking issue, as the administration escalates demands that
China halt the state-sponsored attacks that Beijing insists it is not mounting.

The issue illustrates how different the worsening cyber-cold war between the
world's two largest economies is from the more familiar superpower conflicts of
past decades -- in some ways less dangerous, in others more complex and
pernicious.

Administration officials say they are now more willing than before to call out
the Chinese directly -- as Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. did last week in
announcing a new strategy to combat theft of intellectual property. But
President Obama avoided mentioning China by name -- or Russia or Iran, the other
two countries the president worries most about -- when he declared in his State
of the Union address that ''we know foreign countries and companies swipe our
corporate secrets.'' He added: ''Now our enemies are also seeking the ability to
sabotage our power grid, our financial institutions and our air traffic control
systems.''

Defining ''enemies'' in this case is not always an easy task. China is not an
outright foe of the United States, the way the Soviet Union once was; rather,
China is both an economic competitor and a crucial supplier and customer. The
two countries traded $425 billion in goods last year, and China remains, despite
many diplomatic tensions, a critical financier of American debt. As Hillary
Rodham Clinton put it to Australia's prime minister in 2009 on her way to visit
China for the first time as secretary of state, ''How do you deal toughly with
your banker?''

In the case of the evidence that the People's Liberation Army is probably the
force behind ''Comment Crew,'' the biggest of roughly 20 hacking groups that
American intelligence agencies follow, the answer is that the United States is
being highly circumspect. Administration officials were perfectly happy to have
Mandiant, a private security firm, issue the report tracing the cyberattacks to
the door of China's cybercommand; American officials said privately that they
had no problems with Mandiant's conclusions, but they did not want to say so on
the record.

That explains why China went unmentioned as the location of the suspect servers
in the warning to Internet providers. ''We were told that directly embarrassing
the Chinese would backfire,'' one intelligence official said. ''It would only
make them more defensive, and more nationalistic.''

That view is beginning to change, though. On the ABC News program ''This Week''
on Sunday, Representative Mike Rogers, Republican of Michigan and chairman of
the House Intelligence Committee, was asked whether he believed that the Chinese
military and civilian government were behind the economic espionage. ''Beyond a
shadow of a doubt,'' he replied.

In the next few months, American officials say, there will be many private
warnings delivered by Washington to Chinese leaders, including Xi Jinping, who
will soon assume China's presidency. Both Tom Donilon, the national security
adviser, and Mrs. Clinton's successor, John Kerry, have trips to China in the
offing. Those private conversations are expected to make a case that the sheer
size and sophistication of the attacks over the past few years threaten to erode
support for China among the country's biggest allies in Washington, the American
business community.

''America's biggest global firms have been ballast in the relationship'' with
China, said Kurt M. Campbell, who recently resigned as assistant secretary of
state for East Asia to start a consulting firm, the Asia Group, to manage the
prickly commercial relationships. ''And now they are the ones telling the
Chinese that these pernicious attacks are undermining what has been built up
over decades.''

It is too early to tell whether that appeal to China's self-interest is getting
through. Similar arguments have been tried before, yet when one of China's most
senior military leaders visited the Joint Chiefs of Staff at the Pentagon in May
2011, he said he didn't know much about cyberweapons -- and said the P.L.A. does
not use them. In that regard, he sounded a bit like the Obama administration,
which has never discussed America's own cyberarsenal.

Yet the P.LA.'s attacks are largely at commercial targets. It has an interest in
trade secrets like aerospace designs and wind-energy product schematics: the
army is deeply invested in Chinese industry and is always seeking a competitive
advantage. And so far the attacks have been cost-free.

American officials say that must change. But the prescriptions for what to do
vary greatly -- from calm negotiation to economic sanctions and talk of
counterattacks led by the American military's Cyber Command, the unit that was
deeply involved in the American and Israeli cyberattacks on Iran's nuclear
enrichment plants.

''The problem so far is that we have rhetoric and we have Cyber Command, and not
much in between,'' said Chris Johnson, a 20-year veteran of the C.I.A. team that
analyzed the Chinese leadership. ''That's what makes this so difficult. It's
easy for the Chinese to deny it's happening, to say it's someone else, and no
one wants the U.S. government launching counterattacks.''

That marks another major difference from the dynamic of the American-Soviet
nuclear rivalry. In cold war days, deterrence was straightforward: any attack
would result in a devastating counterattack, at a human cost so horrific that
neither side pulled the trigger, even during close calls like the Cuban missile
crisis.

But cyberattacks are another matter. The vast majority have taken the form of
criminal theft, not destruction. It often takes weeks or months to pin down
where an attack originated, because attacks are generally routed through
computer servers elsewhere to obscure their source. A series of attacks on The
New York Times that originated in China, for example, was mounted through the
computer systems of unwitting American universities. That is why David Rothkopf,
the author of books about the National Security Council, wrote last week that
this was a ''cool war,'' not only because of the remote nature of the attacks
but because ''it can be conducted indefinitely -- permanently, even -- without
triggering a shooting war. At least, that is the theory.''

Administration officials like Robert Hormats, the under secretary of state for
business and economic affairs, say the key to success in combating cyberattacks
is to emphasize to the Chinese authorities that the attacks will harm their
hopes for economic growth. ''We have to make it clear,'' Mr. Hormats said,
''that the Chinese are not going to get what they desire,'' which he said was
''investment from the cream of our technology companies, unless they quickly get
this problem under control.''

But Mr. Rogers of the Intelligence Committee argues for a more confrontational
approach, including ''indicting bad actors'' and denying visas to anyone
believed to be involved in cyberattacks, as well as their families.

The coming debate is over whether the government should get into the business of
retaliation. Already, Washington is awash in conferences that talk about
''escalation dominance'' and ''extended deterrence,'' all terminology drawn from
the cold war.

Some of the talk is overheated, fueled by a growing cybersecurity industry and
the development of offensive cyberweapons, even though the American government
has never acknowledged using them, even in the Stuxnet attacks on Iran. But
there is a serious, behind-the-scenes discussion about what kind of attack on
American infrastructure -- something the Chinese hacking groups have not
seriously attempted -- could provoke a president to order a counterattack.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/25/world/asia/us-confronts-cyber
-cold-war-with-china.html

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A building that houses a Chinese military unit on the outskirts
of Shanghai, believed to be the source of hacking attacks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS
BARRIA/REUTERS) (A7)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            February 25, 2013 Monday

After the First 100 Days of Xi Jinping

BYLINE: BILL BISHOP

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 866 words



HIGHLIGHT: Three important political meetings will occur in the next two weeks,
with pollution problems likely to be on the agenda of at least one of them.


Xi Jinping has been general secretary of the Communist Party of China for just
over 100 days. Last week, official media praised Mr. Xi's first 100 days in
office and his focus on the "Chinese Dream" as well as people's livelihood
issues like health, education, property prices and corruption.

Three important political meetings will occur in the next two weeks. First, the
Central Committee of the 18th Party Congress will hold the Second Plenum for
three days starting Feb. 26. The National People's Congress, China's
legislature, and the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, the top
advisory body for the Chinese government, begin to go into session for about two
weeks of what is known as the "two meetings."

At the N.P.C. meeting, Mr. Xi will formally replace Hu Jintao as president and
Li Keqiang will take over for Wen Jiabao as premier. The legislature will
approve astreamlining of certain government ministries, and we should learn the
official duties for senior politicians Wang Yang and Li Yuanchao.

The environment is likely to be on the N.P.C. agenda. Smog continues to plague
much of China, and there are increasingly dire reports about water
pollution,food pollution and soil pollution. For the first time, the government
officially admittedthe existence of a large number of "cancer villages" caused
by pollution.

In addition to allowing much more open reporting on the environmental
degradation, Beijing is also taking steps to address what increasingly appears
to be one of the biggest risks to the Community Party's rule and China's future
development. Examples of policy responses include a plan to invest hundreds of
billions of dollars on water projects over the next 10 years,a new environmental
tax, much stricter fuel emission standards for new cars in Beijing and a
requirement that companies in heavy pollution industries buy environmental
damage insurance.

While there are signs of regulatory progress, a recent article from Caixin, a
leading Chinese business magazine, highlights the bureaucratic and
special-interest challenges of reaching a consensus on new rules for cleaning up
China's relatively dirty gasoline, cited as one of the causes of the recent
"smog sieges" across China.

THE ENVIRONMENTAL DEGRADATION can no longer be covered up and Beijing has given
the media more room to report on the problems. Now, the government must make
aggressive, concrete progress or it is potentially setting itself up for a
significant popular backlash.

Last week's column noted that new measures to repress property prices were
expected. Those measures were announced on Feb.  20 and the news contributed to
the Shanghai stock market's worst weekly loss in 20 months. The government has
had policies in place for nearly three years to cool the real estate market but
prices and transactions both began increasing again in the second half of 2012,
even though housing is barely affordable to much of China's middle class.

Jing Ulrich, managing director and chairman of global markets in China at
JPMorgan Chase, usually has bullish things to say about China. But on Monday,
she told a group of journalists that "property prices are a reflection of
overall liquidity in the system" and China may be near the peak of its latest
property cycle.

One of the providers of the liquidity in the system is the People's Bank of
China. Its chief,   Zhou Xiaochuan,  is reportedly staying on.  The central bank
is seen by some as one of the leading forces in China'seconomic reform push.

The hacking accusations discussed last week continue, and The New York Times
reported on Monday on the "new cold war" in cyberspace between the United States
and China. The Obama administration's public responses have more muted than some
had expected, perhaps because:

"We were told that directly embarrassing the Chinese would backfire," one
intelligence official said. "It would only make them more defensive, and more
nationalistic."

Regardless of the response from Washington, it is unrealistic to expect cyber
espionage and cyber theft to stop completely. American companies need to be much
more effective at securing their data. Can you imagine a bank securing its doors
with a simple combination lock while leaving its the cash scattered around its
offices? That is effectively how many organizations protect their data.

The Academy Awards were popular in China even though the awards program was not
broadcast live on television. China is now the second-largest film market after
the United States and has grown over 30 percent a year  for the last nine years.
The movie channel of CCTV streamed the show online and on Sina Weibo, akin to
Twitter, the Oscars were the top trending topic for several hours.

The size and explosive growth of the Chinese box office has forced Hollywood to
acquiesce to censorship demands and led some to charge it with "kowtowing" to
China. Hollywood's China dealings have also raised an Securities and Exchange
Commission inquiry.

A Chinese production has so far not won for best picture.  Ang Lee's  award for
directing was widely praised but also "bittersweet for Chinese film fans."


     ·    Changing China's Growth Model
     ·    From Bubble to Muddling Through?


LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 26, 2013 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 739 words


8 P.M. (ABC) CELEBRITY WIFE SWAP Kate Gosselin (above, with suitcase), the
mother of 8-year-old sextuplets and 12-year-old twins, formerly featured in
''Jon & Kate Plus 8,'' and Kendra Wilkinson, an ex-girlfriend of Hugh Hefner's
from ''The Girls Next Door,'' now the mother of a 3-year-old son, trade lives
for a week -- and introduce their own rules into each other's households -- in
this Season 8 premiere.

9:10 A.M. (HBO Signature) PURPLE VIOLETS (2007) Selma Blair and Patrick Wilson
portray college lovers who reconnect years after parting ways in this film from
Edward Burns. She dreamed of becoming a successful novelist but fell into
selling real estate; he's the one who made it big writing crime fiction, with a
young girlfriend and a Hamptons beach house to show for it. But her marriage to
a chef is fizzling, and his pride has recently been wounded by scathing reviews
of his most intimate work. And their best friends (Debra Messing and Mr. Burns)
are grappling with their own troubles.

3:40 P.M. (MTV) NICK & NORAH'S INFINITE PLAYLIST (2008) Nick (Michael Cera) and
Norah (Kat Dennings), music-loving New Jersey high school students who while
away their evenings in New York rock clubs, go in search of their favorite band
-- and try to decide what they want from each other in the process. Peter
Sollett directed the ''idiomatically spot-on screenplay by Lorene Scafaria,'' A.
O. Scott wrote in The Times. ''The movie is so friendly that you may wish for a
little more conflict: higher emotional stakes, riskier jokes, a touch of danger
in the night air,'' he wrote, adding: ''Why begrudge them their fun, or wish
premature heartache upon them? There will be plenty of time for the blues later
on.''

4 P.M. (Fox Business Network) AFTER THE BELL Liz Claman interviews Neal S.
Wolin, the acting Treasury secretary, about cyber security and employment in the
United States.

6 P.M. (Ovation) HOTEL RWANDA (2004) In this fact-based political thriller from
Terry George, Don Cheadle plays Paul Rusesabagina, the Hutu manager of a luxury
hotel, who harbored more than a thousand Tutsis and Hutu moderates during a
100-day blood bath in 1994. Sophie Okonedo is Tatiana, his Tutsi wife (below,
flanked by Antonio David Lyons, left, and Mr. Cheadle). ''The personal
experience of the Rusesabagina family is played for maximum suspense and
tear-drenched drama,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The Times. ''The movie's
sentimental excesses are forgivable, given the subject matter. But even as they
trigger your tear ducts, you wonder if your emotional buttons have been pushed
too hard and too often just to squeeze out an extra drop of sympathy.'' Mr.
Cheadle and Ms. Okonedo were nominated for Oscars.

7 P.M. (13, 49) PBS NEWSHOUR Judy Woodruff interviews Gloria Steinem about the
renewed debate on whether women can ''have it all.'' They'll also discuss the
challenges facing women, including the roles played by governments and
employers.

10 P.M. (TMC) THE HELP (2011) Skeeter (Emma Stone, below), an aspiring writer
from a prominent family in early 1960s Mississippi, causes a local uproar when
she interviews black female servants in this film directed and written by Tate
Taylor. Viola Davis earned a best actress Oscar nomination for her portrayal of
Aibileen, a maid who has raised several of the town's white babies. Octavia
Spencer won for best supporting actress as Aibileen's best friend, Minny, who
endures soul-killing work for Hilly (Bryce Dallas Howard), a housewife who
believes in white superiority, before moving on to Celia (Jessica Chastain, in
another Oscar-nominated role), a bottle blonde shunned by everyone in town. And
Cicely Tyson is Constantine, the woman who raised Skeeter -- and who inspires
her journey of discovery. Writing in The Times, Manohla Dargis called this best
picture nominee a ''big, ole slab of honey-glazed hokum.'' The movie presents a
''vision of a divided America that while consistently insulting and sometimes
even terrifying, is rarely grotesque, despite Hilly's best (worst)
segregationist efforts,'' she added.

11 P.M. (CUNY) THE STOLER REPORT -- THE FRIARS AND FRIENDS DISCUSS THE CABARET
AND MUSIC BUSINESS IN NEW YORK CITY Len Cariou, Jamie deRoy, Sidney Myer, Marc
Eliot and Stan Gilbert discuss the closing of some cabaret rooms (and the
opening of others), songwriting, the cost of attending cultural events and the
dearth of cabaret showcases. Michael Stoler hosts. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/26/arts/television/whats-on-tuesday.html

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY DONNA SVENNEVIK/ABC)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Opinionator)

                          February 27, 2013 Wednesday

Will Journalism Go The Way of Whaling?

BYLINE: DAVID BROOKS and GAIL COLLINS

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1241 words



HIGHLIGHT: Brooks and Collins ask how much new media mangle the message.


 David Brooks:  A couple of times a week I walk by the Yale Drama School. It's a
strange experience because my dream through college was to go there and become a
playwright, a cross between Clifford Odets and George S. Kaufman. When the
socialist revolution came I wanted to be the one writing snappy one-liners to
support it. Then I gave up that dream and decided to become Herbert Croly, the
early New Republic editor, or John Reed, the radical who went to Harvard and
then had a love affair with Diane Keaton (at least in "Reds").

Gail Collins: Herbert Croly - wow. David, I have always admired the fact that
your youth was spent fantasizing about being people I had never heard of until I
was 30.

David: Did you have any youthful ambitions to be obsolete cultural figures?

Gail: I was in Milwaukee. My friends and I just fantasized about being on a
coast.

I did have a brief fling imagining myself part of the Algonquin Round Table, but
that ended when I learned that in real time Dorothy Parker was not actually all
that much fun to have around.

David: I mention my nostalgic turn of mind only because I've been thinking a lot
about technology and our brains. When I was a reporter in Chicago in the early
'80s, we were still on typewriters.

Gail: I actually remember when we got word processors, and the old guys muttered
that you couldn't pound out a story on a computer.

David: Then about five years ago, I felt we newspaper types were in the whaling
business, doomed to die an unseemly death as newspapers succumbed to the
inevitable triumph of the blogosphere.

Gail: And you really do not want to be knocked off by something with that name.
It was like a "Star Wars" movie: "Chewy! The ship is being sucked into the
Blogosphere."

David: Now I feel, or maybe it's hope, that we've reached equilibrium. Blogging
is real, but not hegemonic. YouTube is interesting for people who enjoy watching
54,000 versions of the Harlem Shake. College students these days seem to spend
little time on blogs and not much on Twitter, but a lot of time on Facebook or
at least on Instagram. And lo and behold recognizable newspaper journalism is
still standing, benefitting from a popular flight to quality.

Do you share my sanguine view that we've reached a survivable equilibrium?

Gail: I've always had faith that the great national newspapers would survive in
some form. But to tell the truth, I've been feeling grimmer and grimmer about
local reporting. Candidates for the House and even the Senate campaign with very
little coverage. Press rooms in state capitols look like they've been evacuated.
And I don't know what happens to national politics when the feeder system is
covered mainly by right- and left-wing bloggers.

David: Good point. I used to tell young journalists to start out writing crime
stories somewhere. Now I tell them to produce Web pages that link and comment on
the best pieces in the national press. The big editors will look to your site if
you write obsessively about them. Eventually they'll hire you.

Gail: That's a good career strategy, I suppose. Instead of covering the news,
you cover the people covering the news.

David: The next victim of all this technical transformation seems to be the
universities. I remain genuinely confused by this transformation. On the one
hand, there are studies to suggest that online learning can be as effective as
old-fashioned classroom instruction. On the other hand, our colleagues recently
published a good editorial that highlight the flaws. People who start online
courses rarely finish them, and nobody has been able to flip the classroom -
with lectures at home, homework and discussion at school - effectively on a
large scale.

The whole thing may be undone by the reality that people learn best from people
they care about. Without face-to-face emotional connection, nothing sinks in
beyond the next test. Often the students who do best are the ones who make the
most appointments to visit their professors during office hours.

Gail: You know, I have a lot of books on my iPad, but when I try to read them, I
find myself wandering off to play games.  Those are books I'm interested in. I
can't imagine what would have happened to me in college if my biology class had
been on the same computer as "Words With Friends" and "Doom."

David: Now even warfare seems to be going online. We live in an economic system
in which the world is seen as a conversation, lots of free and open exchange,
where it works best for everybody if we all trust one another.

The new cyber-mercantalists like China and Russia live in a system in which they
review international trade as power competition, with cyberattacks and all the
rest. It's kind of creepy that they spend so much effort gathering data on our
power grid and water systems.

Is it possible brick-and-mortar warfare could be gradually displaced by taking
down one another's power grids and Internet connections?

Gail: The security folk certainly do seem to be freaked out by that possibility.

  I'm not smart enough about technology to know how conceivable a hacking war
would be, but I've seen the movie. Or at least several TV series.

David: My own view is that people tend to underestimate the pace of
technological change but they tend to overestimate the pace of human change.
That is, if you go back to past visions of the future as they were displayed in
world fairs, for example, they generally fail to anticipate how quickly we will
invent things like wireless communication, but they always imagine that social
structures will change faster than they actually do. They imagine people living
without nuclear families, without dysfunctional political squabbles. They
imagine that technology will streamline and rationalize social institutions.
That never happens.

Gail: I did some research once on the way people in the past imagined the year
2000. They tended to picture the things they already had getting more
sophisticated - flying cars, self-cleaning windows. And the folks in the early
1900s had a wildly optimistic estimate of the future of pneumatic tubes. But
very few envisioned the kind of life-changing leaps we've experienced.

This is the moment when I should also admit that when the Internet first arrived
I kept telling people it was a fad.

David: Amazing. I said the same thing about the Pet Rock, and now when I look
around there are rocks everywhere. There are even really tall ones in Colorado
and Montana.

Gail: Besides all the obvious stuff, the Internet is changing the way we
communicate through writing. When the simple word processors came in, writing
became crisper, less dense - just because of the way we could instantly edit on
the screen. Now the ability to mash up words and pictures and links and songs
and tweets is what matters. I can't imagine what writing will be like in 2154.

David: My general rule is that technology supplements but doesn't replace.
Supplement newspapers but not replace. Supplement the traditional dorm and
seminar college but not replace, supplement regular warfare but not replace. As
others have pointed out, the radio didn't go away with the TV, and the TV hasn't
even gone away with the laptop.

That's good for those of us with one foot in the past.

Gail: And you still can't pound out a story on a smartphone.


     ·    Friends in Revolution
     ·    Making a Hashtag of It
     ·    Cambridge, Cabs and Copenhagen: My Route to Existential Risk
     ·    The Hoax of Digital Life
     ·    Open Education for a Global Economy


LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             March 2, 2013 Saturday

Today's Scuttlebot: Chinese Hackers and Accusers

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 232 words



HIGHLIGHT: The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the
Web for important and peculiar items. For Friday, selections include a look at a
Chinese team linked to hacking attacks at companies in the United States, a
claim by China that the United States is trying to hack Chinese military Web
sites and a top Google official&#8217;s lukewarm assessment of Motorola&#8217;s
new phones.


Here are some of the more interesting items that the tech reporters and editors
of The New York Times found on the Web recently. See more here.

Billions of Times a Day in the Blink of an Eye
Insidesearch.blogspot.com |  Google gives a behind-the-scenes peek at how search
works. - Claire Cain Miller

Facebook Promises 'New Look for News Feed'
Wired.com |  What do you think it will look like? - Jenna Wortham

Raising Your Girl Like a Boy
Huffingtonpost.com |  Why should encouraging a girl to play video games and
study computer science be described as raising her like a boy? - Claire Cain
Miller

Google C.F.O. Says Motorola Products Aren't 'Wow' by Google Standards
Theverge.com |  Surprising candor from Google's C.F.O. about Motorola's new
phones. - Claire Cain Miller

Yahoo Work-From-Home Controversy a Silicon Valley Billboard Meme
AllThingsD |  A video conferencing company erects a billboard on Highway 101
with a helpful note for Marissa Mayer. - Claire Cain Miller

APT1, That Scary Cyber-Cold War Gang: Not Even China's Best
Theregister.co.uk |  Security researchers give Chinese hacking gangs nicknames:
Nitro, NightDragon, FlowerLday, Luckycat and Pitty Panda. - Damon Darlin

Chinese Army: U.S. Hacks Us So Much, I'm Amazed You Can Read This
Theregister.co.uk |  Chinese military says it is hacked 144,000 times a month,
of which attacks from the U.S. accounted for 62.9 percent. - Damon Darlin

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 4, 2013 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Hacking Against U.S. Rises, Experts Try to Pin Down Motive

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH, DAVID E. SANGER and MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT; Nicole
Perlroth and Michael S. Schmidt reported from San Francisco, and David E. Sanger
from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1663 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- When Telvent, a company that monitors more than half the oil
and gas pipelines in North America, discovered last September that the Chinese
had hacked into its computer systems, it immediately shut down remote access to
its clients' systems.

Company officials and American intelligence agencies then grappled with a
fundamental question: Why had the Chinese done it?

Was the People's Liberation Army, which is suspected of being behind the hacking
group, trying to plant bugs into the system so they could cut off energy
supplies and shut down the power grid if the United States and China ever
confronted each other in the Pacific? Or were the Chinese hackers just trolling
for industrial secrets, trying to rip off the technology and pass it along to
China's own energy companies?

''We are still trying to figure it out,'' a senior American intelligence
official said last week. ''They could have been doing both.''

Telvent, which also watches utilities and water treatment plants, ultimately
managed to keep the hackers from breaking into its clients' computers.

At a moment when corporate America is caught between what it sees as two
different nightmares -- preventing a crippling attack that brings down America's
most critical systems, and preventing Congress from mandating that the private
sector spend billions of dollars protecting against that risk -- the Telvent
experience resonates as a study in ambiguity.

To some it is prime evidence of the threat that President Obama highlighted in
his State of the Union address, when he warned that ''our enemies are also
seeking the ability to sabotage our power grid, our financial institutions, our
air traffic control systems,'' perhaps causing mass casualties. Mr. Obama called
anew for legislation to protect critical infrastructure, which was killed last
year by a Republican filibuster after intensive lobbying by the Chamber of
Commerce and other business groups.

But the security breach of Telvent, which the Chinese government has denied,
also raises questions of whether those fears -- the subject of weekly research
group reports, testimony and Congressional studies -- may be somewhat overblown,
or whether the precise nature of the threat has been misunderstood.

American intelligence officials believe that the greater danger to the nation's
infrastructure may not even be China, but Iran, because of its avowal to
retaliate for the Stuxnet virus created by the United States and Israel and
unleashed on one of its nuclear sites. But for now, these officials say, that
threat is limited by gaps in Iranian technical skills.

There is no doubt that attacks of all kinds are on the rise. The Department of
Homeland Security has been responding to intrusions on oil pipelines and
electric power organizations at ''an alarming rate,'' according to an agency
report last December. Some 198 attacks on the nation's critical infrastructure
systems were reported to the agency last year, a 52 percent increase from the
number of attacks in 2011.

Researchers at McAfee, a security firm, discovered in 2011 that five
multinational oil and gas companies had been attacked by Chinese hackers. The
researchers suspected that the Chinese hacking campaign, which they called Night
Dragon, had affected more than a dozen companies in the energy industry. More
recently, the Department of Energy confirmed in January that its network had
been infiltrated, though it has said little about what damage, if any, was done.

But security researchers say that the majority of those attacks were as
ambiguous as the Telvent case. They appeared to be more about cyberespionage,
intended to bolster the Chinese economy. If the goal was to blow up a pipeline
or take down the United States power grid, the attacks would likely have been of
a different nature.

In a recent report, Critical Intelligence, an Idaho Falls security company, said
that several cyberattacks by ''Chinese adversaries'' against North American
energy firms seemed intended to steal fracking technologies, reflecting fears by
the Chinese government that the shale energy revolution will tip the global
energy balance back in America's favor. ''These facts are likely a significant
motivation behind the wave of sophisticated attacks affecting firms that operate
in natural gas, as well as industries that rely on natural gas as an input,
including petrochemicals and steelmaking,'' the Critical Intelligence report
said, adding that the attack on Telvent, and ''numerous'' North American
pipeline operators may be related.

American intelligence experts believe that the primary reason China is deterred
from conducting an attack on infrastructure in the United States is the simple
economic fact that anything that hurts America's financial markets or
transportation systems would also have consequences for its own economy. It
could interrupt exports to Walmart and threaten the value of China's investments
in the United States -- which now include a new, big investment in oil and gas.

Iran, however, may be a different threat. While acknowledging that ''China is
stealing our intellectual property at a rate that qualifies as an epidemic,''
Representative Mike Rogers, the Michigan Republican who chairs the House
Intelligence Committee, added a caveat in an interview on Friday. ''China is a
rational actor,'' he said. ''Iran is not a rational actor.''

A new National Intelligence Estimate -- a classified document that has not yet
been published within the government, but copies of which are circulating for
final comments -- identifies Iran as one of the other actors besides China who
would benefit from the ability to shut down parts of the American economy.
Unlike the Chinese, the Iranians have no investments in the United States. As a
senior American military official put it, ''There's nothing but upside for them
to go after American infrastructure.''

While the skills of Iran's newly created ''cybercorps'' are in doubt, Iranian
hackers gained some respect in the technology community when they brought down
30,000 computers belonging to Saudi Aramco, the world's largest oil producer,
last August, replacing their contents with an image of a burning American flag.

The attack did not affect production facilities or refineries, but it made its
point.

''The main target in this attack was to stop the flow of oil and gas to local
and international markets and thank God they were not able to achieve their
goals,'' Abdullah al-Saadan, Aramco's vice president for corporate planning,
told Al Ekhbariya television.

President Obama has been vague about how the United States would respond to such
an attack. No one in the administration argues that the United States should
respond with cyber- or physical retaliation for the theft of secrets. Attorney
General Eric H. Holder Jr. has made clear that would be dealt with in criminal
courts, though the prosecutions of cybertheft by foreign sources have been few.

But the question of whether the president could, or should, order military
retaliation for major attacks that threaten the American public is a roiling
debate.

''Some have called for authorizing the military to defend private corporate
networks and critical infrastructure sectors, like gas pipelines and water
systems,'' Candace Yu, who studies the issue for the Truman National Security
Project, wrote recently. ''This is unrealistic. The military has neither the
specialized expertise nor the capacity to do this; it needs to address only the
most urgent threats.''

But the administration has failed to convince Congress that the first line of
defense to avert catastrophic cyberattack is to require private industry --
which controls the cellphone networks and financial and power systems that are
the primary target of infrastructure attacks -- that it must build robust
defenses.

A bill containing such requirements was defeated last year amid intense lobbying
from the United States Chamber of Commerce and others, which argued that the
costs would be prohibitive. Leading members of Congress say they expect the
issue will come up again in the next few months.

''We are in a race against time,'' Michael Chertoff, the former secretary of
homeland security, said last week. ''Most of the infrastructure is in private
hands. The government is not going to be able to manage this like the air
traffic control system. We're going to have to enlist a large number of
independent actors.''

The administration's cybersecurity legislation last year failed despite
closed-door simulations for lawmakers about what a catastrophic attack would
look like.

During one such simulation that the Department of Homeland Security allowed a
New York Times reporter to view at a department facility in Virginia, a woman
played the role of an ''evil hacker'' who successfully broke into a power
plant's network. To get in, the hacker used a method called ''spearphishing,''
in which she sent a message to a power plant employee that induced the employee
to click on a link to see pictures of ''cute puppies.''

When the employee clicked on the link, it surreptitiously allowed the hacker to
gain access to the employee's computer, enabling her to easily turn the switches
to the plant's breakers on and off.

Although the officials providing the briefing acknowledged that the simulation
was a bit simplistic, their message was clear: with so many vulnerable critical
infrastructure systems across the country, such an attack could easily occur,
with huge consequences. No one rules out that scenario -- whatever the current
motivations and abilities of countries like China and Iran.

''There are 12 countries developing offensive cyberweapons; Iran is one of
them,'' James Lewis, a former government official and cybersecurity expert at
the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said at a
security conference in San Francisco. Those countries have a long way to go, he
said, but added: ''Like nuclear weapons, eventually they'll get there.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/03/04/us/us-weighs-risks-and-motives-of-hacking-by-c
hina-or-iran.html

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 4, 2013 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 735 words


7:30 P.M. (HBO) JOHN GUARE: A YOUNGARTS MASTERCLASS For more than 30 years the
organization now known as National YoungArts Foundation has offered scholarships
and mentors to emerging high school artists. This latest installment of the
Emmy-nominated ''Masterclass'' series, directed by the Oscar-winning filmmakers
Karen Goodman and Kirk Simon and featuring sessions between acclaimed artists
and students, focuses on Mr. Guare (above) -- the author of plays including ''A
Free Man of Color,'' ''The House of Blue Leaves'' and ''Six Degrees of
Separation'' -- as he advises writers at a workshop in Rome. Their assignment is
to wander the city for inspiration and then compose a monologue drawing on their
experiences in the voice of an imagined character, all while being encouraged by
Mr. Guare to pursue ''weird vibes'' and ''go into the darkness.''

7 A.M. (CUNY) ONE TO ONE Ann Kirschner, the university dean of the William E.
Macaulay Honors College of the City University of New York, discusses her new
book, ''Lady at the O.K. Corral: The True Story of Josephine Marcus Earp,''
about the New York-born common-law wife of the Old West lawman Wyatt Earp.

11 A.M. (Fox Business) THE CYBER THREAT This five-day program examines the risk
that hacking poses to the economy, businesses and taxpayers through interviews
with Scott Borg, the director and chief economist with the United States Cyber
Consequences Unit; Jon Iadonisi, a founder and the chief executive of the White
Canvas Group; and Gen. Michael V. Hayden, a former director of the Central
Intelligence Agency, among others.

11:30.M. (Starz) ORANGES AND SUNSHINE (2011) Emily Watson, left, portrays
Margaret Humphreys, a social worker in Nottingham, England, who, starting in
1986, exposed the deportation of as many as 130,000 children from orphanages and
group homes in Britain to Australia between the 1940s and 1967. One deportee,
now an adult, recalls that he was told at 10 that he was being sent to a sunny
paradise where he could pick oranges off trees. Instead many of the youngsters
found themselves forced into hard labor and enduring physical cruelty and sexual
abuse at places like the Bindoon Boys Town, presided over by the Christian
Brothers, a Roman Catholic order. The victims were informed that their parents
were dead, while their parents -- mainly unwed mothers deemed unfit -- were told
that their children had been placed for adoption in better homes. ''This film
presents a chilling portrait of bureaucratic stonewalling and denial as Margaret
presents her evidence to politicians who meet her accusations with indifference
and skepticism, express only a vague regret and assume no responsibility,''
Stephen Holden wrote in The New York Times about this drama, directed by Jim
Loach from Ms. Humphreys's 1994 book, ''Empty Cradles.''

8 P.M. (ABC) THE BACHELOR: THE WOMEN TELL ALL The bachelorettes rejected by Sean
Lowe dish the dirt on the season so far.

8 P.M. (NBC) THE BIGGEST LOSER The final five contestants receive makeovers by
the fashion expert Tim Gunn and the hairstylist Ken Paves. Then they reveal
their looks to family members and friends.

8 P.M. (National Geographic) ARE YOU TOUGHER THAN A BOY SCOUT? Six elite Boy
Scouts compete against three men in a variety of challenges in this new reality
series. The contest begins with canoe jousting in Sequoia National Forest in
California.

9 P.M. (C-Span) FIRST LADIES: INFLUENCE & IMAGE The channel, in collaboration
with the White House Historical Association, continues its examination of the
private lives and public roles of the nation's first ladies with this overview
of Abigail Adams.

9 P.M. (BBC America) TOP GEAR Jeremy Clarkson and Richard Hammond design a car
for older drivers. James May cruises around London in a new Range Rover before
heading to Nevada to test it against a military vehicle. And James McAvoy is the
star in a reasonably priced car.

10 P.M. (Bravo) LA SHRINKS Venus Nicolino, a life coach and mother of four boys;
Gregory Cason, a psychologist specializing in cognitive therapy and living what
he calls a ''monogamish'' life with his partner of 23 years; and Eris Huemer, a
licensed marriage and family therapist forced to confront issues with her own
husband, deal with Los Angeles clients including one whose rage is set off by
traffic, a homophobic man whose identical twin is gay and a couple with a
dwindling sex life. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/03/04/arts/television/whats-on-monday.html

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 10, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Long Island Landmark: Scary Since 1974

BYLINE: By FRANZ LIDZ

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1024 words


AMITYVILLE, N.Y. -- It's a splendid day for a stroll past a haunted house: dark,
damp, forbidding. A thin mist rises like a mourner's veil above the gambrel
roof, and low-slung clouds bathe the grounds in perpetual gloom.

Thirty-seven years have passed since the last reported haunting in this quiet
Long Island village. During the ensuing decades the three-story dwelling has
been renumbered, and the distinctive quarter-moon windows -- suggesting the
malevolent eyes of a jack-o'-lantern -- have been changed to discourage
rubbernecking.

The house first gained notoriety on Nov. 13, 1974, when Ronald DeFeo Jr., then
23, murdered his parents and his four siblings with a rifle as they slept in
their beds there. A little more than a year later the newlyweds George and Kathy
Lutz bought the place -- named High Hopes -- at the knockdown price of $80,000
and moved in, along with her three children by a previous marriage. The family
stayed just 28 days.

The Lutzes later claimed that poltergeists had settled into the rooms like
uninvited relatives. Their account of having been terrified by High Hopes' eerie
personality disorders -- door wrenchings, window slammings, demon infestations
-- was chronicled in Jay Anson's 1977 book ''The Amityville Horror: A True
Story.''

That best seller spawned a cottage industry -- make that a Dutch Colonial
industry -- that has so far yielded dozens of books and documentaries, hundreds
of Web pages and a 1979 hit movie that, in turn, inspired no fewer than 12
remakes, prequels and sequels, two of which are scheduled for release in 2014.

This year's addition to the franchise is ''My Amityville Horror,'' a documentary
that begins a limited run at the IFC Center on Friday before IFC Midnight takes
it to select theaters around the country. It opens in Los Angeles next Saturday.

The director, Eric Walter, is a 26-year-old fan of the book who, at 18, started
AmityvilleFiles.com, a Web site that bills itself as the largest cyber-based
archive of Amityville-related research.

He attributes the house's enduring appeal as fright fodder to an unholy marriage
of mass murders and mythology. Though ''My Amityville Horror'' is feathered with
the testimony of a cuckoo's nest of psychics, ghost hunters and self-proclaimed
experts on the paranormal, Mr. Walter insists that the film is less a showcase
for spiritualists than a character study.

The character he purports to be studying is Danny Lutz, the oldest and possibly
most tormented of the Lutz children. Head shaved, glacier-blue eyes set in deep
alcoves, he prowls in and out of the frame, smiling a faintly sinister smile.

Now 47 and a stonemason in Queens, Mr. Lutz maintains that while living at the
house he was spiritually and emotionally abused by phantoms. He tells the camera
with rock-solid certainty that he watched his hated stepfather, who has since
died, practice telekinesis in the garage.

''That blew me out of the water,'' Mr. Walter said with an almost childlike
innocence. ''I found it extremely hard to swallow.''

Mr. Walter said that his intent for his film is to show the lingering
psychological impact of the event on one of its witnesses. ''For me that's the
real story, the real Amityville horror, to be living in the shadow of something
for the rest of your life,'' he said.

Some would argue that the real Amityville horror is the tangle of more than a
dozen lawsuits generated by the story. Shortly before the premiere of the first
feature film, William Weber, the court-appointed lawyer for Mr. DeFeo, said that
he and the Lutzes had concocted the yarn ''over many bottles of wine.''

He had met the Lutzes soon after they abandoned the house, whose mortgage they
evidently couldn't afford. Mr. Weber hoped to collaborate on a book about the
murders, to be titled ''Devil on My Back.'' The Lutzes, he later testified in
State Supreme Court, were interested ''in developing the demonism aspect of the
case.''

Mr. Weber said he provided details about the house and the killing that the
Lutzes spun for their own use. In the retelling a neighbor's cat that often
lurked outside a window became a piglike ghoul that peered redly into the house
at night and left cloven hoof prints in the snow.

Another anecdote Mr. Weber said he passed along had Ronald DeFeo Sr. smacking
his wife while she held a plate of spaghetti. As she tumbled down the basement
stairs, tomato sauce splattered the walls. In the Lutzes' version, the red sauce
morphed into green (or was it black?) slime that seeped from the keyholes. ''We
took real-life incidents and transposed them,'' Mr. Weber said in 1988. ''In
other words, it was a hoax.''

After he and the Lutzes held a news conference in his law office, they had a
falling out, reportedly over the financial split (the couple's share of the
proposed partnership was to be 24 percent). In March 1976 the couple enlisted
Anson, a documentary film writer whose work included a featurette on the making
of ''The Exorcist.'' The Lutzes' cut of a second book deal was a more favorable
50 percent.

That summer The Daily News's Sunday paper published an article by Paul Hoffman
-- a writer brought in by Mr. Weber -- recounting the Lutzes' experiences at
High Hopes. The next spring Good Housekeeping ran a modified version of the
article, also by Mr. Hoffman. When the Lutzes filed an invasion of privacy suit,
Mr. Weber and Mr. Hoffman countersued, contending fraud and breach of contract.

The Lutzes' complaint was dismissed. Mr. Weber -- chastised by a judge for
acting as a literary agent -- settled with them out of court. There followed
much litigation and many films -- ''Amityville II'' was based on a book Mr.
Weber commissioned. But the ethereal squatters were never again sighted at the
house.

Not that High Hopes has lacked for search parties. Marvin Scott, a longtime
television newsman, took part in a séance there in 1976. Three years later he
attended a screening of ''The Amityville Horror.''

In the new documentary, Mr. Scott recalled, ''the two hours I spent watching the
film with a rowdy, disruptive pot-smoking audience was much more of a horror
than the six hours I spent in the house in Amityville.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/03/10/movies/my-amityville-horror-a-haunting-documen
tary.html

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eric Walter, above, focused his documentary, ''My Amityville
Horror,'' on Danny Lutz, left, who lived as a child in a house believed to be
haunted
below left, Margot Kidder and James Brolin in ''The Amityville Horror'' (1979).
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOEL RYAN/INVISION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
LOST WITNESS PICTURES
 AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL/PHOTOFEST)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 12, 2013 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Demands Chinese Block Cyberattacks

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1144 words


WASHINGTON -- The White House demanded Monday that the Chinese government stop
the widespread theft of data from American computer networks and agree to
''acceptable norms of behavior in cyberspace.''

The demand, made in a speech by President Obama's national security adviser, Tom
Donilon, was the first public confrontation with China over cyberespionage and
came two days after its foreign minister, Yang Jiechi, rejected a growing body
of evidence that his country's military was involved in cyberattacks on American
corporations and some government agencies.

The White House, Mr. Donilon said, is seeking three things from Beijing: public
recognition of the urgency of the problem; a commitment to crack down on hackers
in China; and an agreement to take part in a dialogue to establish global
standards.

''Increasingly, U.S. businesses are speaking out about their serious concerns
about sophisticated, targeted theft of confidential business information and
proprietary technologies through cyberintrusions emanating from China on an
unprecedented scale,'' Mr. Donilon said in a wide-ranging address to the Asia
Society in New York.

''The international community,'' he added, ''cannot tolerate such activity from
any country.''

In Beijing, a spokeswoman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, Hua Chunying, did
not directly say whether the government is willing to negotiate over the
proposals spelled out by Mr. Donilon. But at a daily news briefing Tuesday she
repeated the government's position that it opposes Internet attacks and wants
''constructive dialogue'' with the United States and other countries about
cybersecurity issues.

Until now, the White House has steered clear of mentioning China by name when
discussing cybercrime, though Mr. Obama and other officials have raised it
privately with Chinese counterparts. In his State of the Union address, he said,
''We know foreign countries and companies swipe our corporate secrets.''

But as evidence has emerged suggesting the People's Liberation Army is linked to
hacking, the China connection has become harder for the administration not to
confront head-on. The New York Times three weeks ago published evidence tying
one of the most active of the Chinese groups to a neighborhood in Shanghai that
is headquarters to a major cyberunit of the People's Liberation Army. That
account, based in large part on unclassified work done by Mandiant, a security
firm, echoed the findings of intelligence agencies that have been tracking the
Chinese attackers.

American officials say raising the issue with the Chinese is a delicate
balancing act at a time when the United States is seeking China's cooperation in
containing North Korea's nuclear and missile programs, and joining in sanctions
on Iran. Yet they have been expressing their concerns about cyberattacks with
Chinese officials for years. Starting in 2010, they invited P.L.A. officials to
discuss the issue -- a process that has only just started -- and last November,
Mr. Obama broached the subject at a summit meeting with Prime Minister Wen
Jiabao, a senior administration official said.

Since then, the official said, there has been a ''perfect storm'' of media
coverage and protests from the corporate world. Still, he said, Mr. Donilon
chose not to mention the P.L.A. in his speech because he did not want to engage
in finger-pointing.

''What we are hoping to do,'' another senior official said, ''is force the
Chinese civilian leadership to realize that the P.L.A. is interfering with their
foreign policy.''

The Chinese have insisted that they are the victims of cyberattacks, not the
perpetrators. On Saturday, the Chinese foreign minister, Yang Jiechi, issued his
own call for ''rules and cooperation'' on cybersecurity and said reports of
Chinese military involvement in cyberattacks were ''built on shaky ground.''

''Anyone who tries to fabricate or piece together a sensational story to serve a
political motive will not be able to blacken the name of others nor whitewash
themselves,'' Mr. Yang told reporters at the National People's Congress, which
was preparing to ratify the ascension of Xi Jinpingto the Chinese presidency.

Mr. Donilon said the threats to cybersecurity had moved to the forefront of
American concerns with China, noting that he was not ''talking about ordinary
cybercrime or hacking.''

That distinction, a senior administration official said, was meant to separate
the theft of intellectual property by Chinese state entities from small-scale
hacking by individuals, or the use of cyberweapons by a state to protect its
national security. But the distinction between cyberattacks aimed at
intellectual property theft and those aimed at disabling a military threat is
largely made by Western officials devising legal arguments, not one the Chinese
have embraced.

Even as he emphasized the need for international rules to guide cyberactivity,
Mr. Donilon made no reference to the billions of dollars the American military
and intelligence agencies are spending to develop an arsenal of offensive
cyberweapons -- to be used against military targets, officials insist, not
economic ones. The most famous of these operations was the covert cyberattack
mounted by the United States and Israel to disable the centrifuges that Iran
uses to enrich uranium at its site in Natanz.

Mr. Donilon sketched out a vigorous agenda in Asia, insisting the United States
would keep pursuing its ''strategic pivot'' toward the region, despite cuts in
military spending. He announced that the Treasury Department would impose
sanctions on a North Korean bank specializing in foreign-exchange transactions
-- ratcheting up the pressure on the North Korean government on the day that
Pyongyang announced it would no longer abide by the 1953 armistice that halted
the Korean War.

With fears about North Korea's increased nuclear and missile capabilities
causing considerable anxiety in Seoul and Tokyo, Mr. Donilon restated a
''declaratory policy'' that was first formulated by President George W. Bush
after the North's first nuclear test, in 2006. He warned that the United States
would reserve the option to retaliate against the North, not just if it used
nuclear weapons but if it allowed the ''transfer of nuclear weapons or nuclear
materials to other states or nonstate entities.''

That formulation did not appear to cover, however, the transfer of technology to
build nuclear facilities, as North Korea did in Syria. That reactor was
destroyed by Israel in 2007.

''It's understandable that the people of South Korea would be concerned about
the threat they face from the North,'' Mr. Donilon said, apparently alluding to
talk in the South of building the country's own nuclear arsenal, a move the
United States halted decades ago. Mr. Donilon added that the United States had
assets in place ''to insure that South Korea's defense is provided for.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/03/12/world/asia/us-demands-that-china-end-hacking-a
nd-set-cyber-rules.html

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 12, 2013 Tuesday
                        The International Herald Tribune

Australian Central Bank Hit by Cyberattack

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 582 words


SYDNEY -- The Australian central bank confirmed Monday that it had been hit by
cyberattacks, but it said no data had been lost or systems compromised.

The central bank, the Reserve Bank of Australia, was responding to a report in a
newspaper, The Australian Financial Review, that said the central bank had been
repeatedly and successfully hacked and information stolen.

''As reported in today's media, the bank has on occasion been the target of
cyber attacks,'' the central bank said in a news release. ''The bank has
comprehensive security arrangements in place which have isolated these attacks
and ensured that viruses have not been spread across the bank's network or
systems.

''At no point have these attacks caused the bank's data or information to be
lost or its systems to be corrupted.''

Hacking attacks on governments and corporations have become common, with
analysts casting suspicion on China as the source of much of the activity.
Beijing has repeatedly denied accusations that it is behind the attacks, saying
it, too, is a victim of hacking, particularly from the United States.

The Australian central bank said it routinely consulted with the Defense Signals
Directorate, the Australian intelligence agency, to ensure the security of its
systems.

Reports released under the Australian Freedom of Information Act showed that the
central bank had been the subject of a malicious e-mail attack Nov. 16 and 17,
2011, using a virus that was undetectable by the bank's anti-virus software.

An e-mail titled ''Strategic Planning FY2012'' was sent to several members of
the central bank's staff, in ranks as high as department head, and was opened by
six of them, potentially compromising their workstations. The e-mail purported
to come from a senior staff member at the bank and came from a ''possibly
legitimate'' external account.

The e-mails contained a compressed file with an executable ''malware,'' or
malicious software, application, although the bank would not identify the virus
used.

None of the six workstations affected had local administrator rights, which
prevented the virus from spreading. The servers were considered compromised and
were removed from the network Nov. 17.

''The e-mail had managed to bypass the existing security controls in place for
malicious e-mails by being well written, targeted to specific bank staff and
utilized an embedded hyperlink to the virus payload which differs from the usual
attack whereby the virus is attached directly to the e-mail,'' according the
central bank's report on the incident.

''Bank assets could have been potentially compromised, leading to service
disruption, information loss and reputation,'' the report noted.

The bank took the issue to the providers of its anti-virus software to update
its defenses, including scanning for hyperlinks in e-mails and automatically
blocking them.

As well as the attempted hacking, the central bank documents also listed a
number of potentially embarrassing incidents, including lost laptops and
BlackBerrys and the e-mailing of sensitive documents by mistake.

In one incident, a folder containing confidential information was left on the
back of an office car by a distracted staff member. When the staff member drove
away, a passing motorist raised the alarm that papers had scattered across the
road.Most of the papers were recovered after an hour of searching, although some
were thought lost in a stormwater drain, ''resulting in moderate reputational
risk to the bank,'' the report said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/03/12/technology/australian-central-bank-hit-by-cybe
rattack.html

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 13, 2013 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Security Chief Says Cyberattacks Will Meet With Retaliation

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI and DAVID E. SANGER; Scott Shane contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1176 words


WASHINGTON -- The chief of the military's newly created Cyber Command told
Congress on Tuesday that he is establishing 13 teams of programmers and computer
experts who could carry out offensive cyberattacks on foreign nations if the
United States were hit with a major attack on its own networks, the first time
the Obama administration has publicly admitted to developing such weapons for
use in wartime.

''I would like to be clear that this team, this defend-the-nation team, is not a
defensive team,'' Gen. Keith Alexander, who runs both the National Security
Agency and the new Cyber Command, told the House Armed Services Committee.
''This is an offensive team that the Defense Department would use to defend the
nation if it were attacked in cyberspace. Thirteen of the teams that we're
creating are for that mission alone.''

General Alexander's testimony came on the same day the nation's top intelligence
official, James R. Clapper Jr., warned Congress that a major cyberattack on the
United States could cripple the country's infrastructure and economy, and
suggested that such attacks now pose the most dangerous immediate threat to the
United States, even more pressing than an attack by global terrorist networks.

On Monday, Thomas E. Donilon, the national security adviser, demanded that
Chinese authorities investigate such attacks and enter talks about new rules
governing behavior in cyberspace.

General Alexander has been a major architect of the American strategy on this
issue, but until Tuesday he almost always talked about it in defensive terms. He
has usually deflected questions about America's offensive capability, and turned
them into discussions of how to defend against mounting computer espionage from
China and Russia, and the possibility of crippling attacks on utilities,
cellphone networks and other infrastructure. He was also a crucial player in the
one major computer attack the United States is known to have sponsored in recent
years, aimed at Iran's nuclear enrichment plants. He did not discuss that highly
classified operation during his open testimony.

Mr. Clapper, the director of national intelligence, told the Senate Intelligence
Committee that American spy agencies saw only a ''remote chance'' in the next
two years of a major computer attack on the United States, which he defined as
an operation that ''would result in long-term, wide-scale disruption of
services, such as a regional power outage.''

Mr. Clapper appeared with the heads of several other intelligence agencies,
including Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn of the Defense Intelligence Agency, the
F.B.I. director Robert S. Mueller III, and the C.I.A. director John O. Brennan,
to present their annual assessment of the threats facing the nation. It was the
first time that Mr. Clapper listed cyberattacks first in his presentation to
Congress, and the rare occasion since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks that
intelligence officials did not list international terrorism first in the catalog
of dangers facing the United States.

''In some cases,'' Mr. Clapper said in his testimony, ''the world is applying
digital technologies faster than our ability to understand the security
implications and mitigate potential risks.'' He said it was unlikely that Russia
and China would launch ''devastating'' cyberattacks against the United States in
the near future, but he said foreign spy services had already hacked the
computer networks of government agencies, businesses and private companies.

Two specific attacks Mr. Clapper listed, an August 2012 attack against the Saudi
oil company Aramco and attacks on American banks and stock exchanges last year,
are believed by American intelligence officials to have been the work of Iran.

General Alexander picked up on the same themes in his testimony, saying that he
was adding 40 cyber teams, 13 focused on offense and 27 on training and
surveillance. When pressed, he said that the best defense hinged on being able
to monitor incoming traffic to the United States through private ''Internet
service providers,'' which could alert the government, in the milliseconds that
electronic messages move, about potentially dangerous attacks. Such surveillance
is bound to raise more debate with privacy advocates, who fear government
monitoring of the origin and the addressing data on most e-mail messages and
other computer exchanges.

Traditional threats occupied much of Mr. Clapper's testimony. American
intelligence officials are giving new emphasis to the danger posed by North
Korea's nuclear weapons and missile programs, which are said for the first time
to ''pose a serious threat to the United States'' as well as to its East Asian
neighbors. North Korea, which recently made a series of belligerent statements
after its third nuclear test, has displayed an intercontinental missile that can
be moved by road and in December launched a satellite atop a Taepodong-2 launch
vehicle, Mr. Clapper's prepared statement noted.

''The rhetoric, while it is propaganda laced, is also an indicator of their
attitude and perhaps their intent,'' Mr. Clapper said during one exchange with a
lawmaker, adding that he was concerned that North Korea ''could initiate a
provocative action against the South.''

In his discussion of terrorism, Mr. Clapper noted that while Al Qaeda's core in
Pakistan ''is probably unable to carry out complex, large-scale attacks in the
West,'' spinoffs still posed a threat. Listed first is the affiliate in Yemen,
Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, which Mr. Clapper said had retained its goal
of attacks on United States soil, but he also noted militant groups in six other
countries that still threaten local violence.

Mr. Clapper began his remarks by criticizing policy makers for the current
budget impasse, saying that the budget cuts known as sequestration will force
American spy agencies to make sharp reductions in classified programs and to
furlough employees. The classified intelligence budget has ballooned over the
past decade, and Mr. Clapper compared the current round of cuts to the period
during the 1990s when the end of the cold war led to drastic reductions in the
C.I.A.'s budget.

''Unlike more directly observable sequestration impacts, like shorter hours at
public parks or longer security lines at airports, the degradation of
intelligence will be insidious,'' Mr. Clapper said. ''It will be gradual and
almost invisible unless and until, of course, we have an intelligence failure.''

The threat hearing is the only scheduled occasion each year when the spy chiefs
present open testimony to Congress about the dangers facing the United States,
and Mr. Clapper did not hide the fact that he is opposed to the annual ritual.
President Obama devoted part of his State of the Union address to a pledge of
greater transparency with the Congress and the American public, but Mr. Clapper,
a 71-year-old retired Air Force general, made it clear that he saw few benefits
of more public disclosure.

''An open hearing on intelligence matters is something of a contradiction in
terms,'' he said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/03/13/us/intelligence-official-warns-congress-that-c
yberattacks-pose-threat-to-us.html

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Mueller of the F.B.I., left, and James R. Clapper Jr., of
National Intelligence, on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN THEW/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO
AGENCY) (A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            March 13, 2013 Wednesday

The Early Word: A Change Is Going to Come

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 529 words



HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today&#8217;s Times and around the Web, plus a
look at the latest happenings in Washington.


 Today's Times


     ·    President Obama met with Senate Democrats on Tuesday about potential
          changes to entitlements, Mark Landler and Jennifer Steinhauer report.
          Even though the lengthy discussion remained civil, some senators
          voiced concerns about cuts to popular programs like Medicare and
          Social Security.



     ·    The Justice Department confirmed that its voting rights section has
          been torn over ideological splits between liberal and conservative
          factions dating to the Bush administration and continuing into the
          Obama era, Charlie Savage writes. The report recounts an array of
          "troubling" episodes and a distrustful culture.



     ·    It was a good day for President Obama's gun-safety agenda in Congress,
          with the Senate Judiciary Committee passing two measures designed to
          curb shooting violence. The approved bills - one aimed at expanding
          background checks to private gun sales and another that would renew a
          grant program that focuses on school safety - are now likely to go to
          the Senate floor for a full vote, Jennifer Steinhauer writes.



     ·    An appeals court ruled that Mr. Obama violated the Constitution when
          he made recess appointments to the National Labor Relations Board last
          year, but the White House disagrees. The administration is now
          preparing to appeal the decision to the Supreme Court, Charlie Savage
          reports.



     ·    No one is safe from Internet hacking - not the vice president of the
          United States of America, not even Beyoncé. An investigation was
          started on Tuesday after a Web site originating in Russia posted the
          home addresses, Social Security numbers and other personal information
          of more than a dozen celebrities and politicians, Michael S. Schmidt
          and Nicole Perlroth report.



     ·    Though both sides have been reassuring the public that a bipartisan
          compromise on a budget deal is possible, Senate Democrats and House
          Republicans outlined vastly different approaches to coming up with a
          solution - a reminder of how far apart they remain on fiscal policy,
          Jeremy W. Peters and Jonathan Weisman report.



     ·    Annie Lowrey provides a news analysis about the debate over balancing
          the federal budget. While some economists agree that keeping a
          government's debt within reasonable limits is good and necessary,
          there is some disagreement over how important  balancing the budget
          actually is.


Around the Web


     ·    Officials at the White House Office of Information and Regulatory
          Affairs "were either unwilling or unable to say" who is leading the
          department, The Hill reports.


Happenings in Washington


     ·    President Obama will swing by Capitol Hill again Wednesday, this time
          to meet with the House Republican Conference. Later, he will meet with
          C.E.O.s in the White House to discuss cyber security and to get their
          input on how the government and private sector can work together to
          help eliminate threats to the nation's technological infrastructure.



     ·    Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Attorney General Eric H. Holder
          Jr. will speak at an event in Rockville, Md., about the need to reduce
          homicides related to domestic violence.



     ·    Michelle Obama will deliver remarks to C.E.O.s of the Business
          Roundtable to promote her Joining Forces Initiative, which helps
          members of military families find jobs.


LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 19, 2013 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Falling Out of Love With China

BYLINE: By DAVID SHAMBAUGH.

David Shambaugh, a professor of political science and international affairs at
the George Washington University and a nonresident senior fellow at the
Brookings Institution, is the author of ''China Goes Global: The Partial
Power.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 862 words


Washington

NOW that China is becoming a world power, it is beginning to recognize the
importance of its global image and the need to enhance its ''soft power.'' It is
tracking public opinion polls worldwide and investing huge amounts into
expanding its global cultural footprint, ''external propaganda work'' and public
diplomacy. Unfortunately for China, that's not enough.

While pockets of positive views regarding China can be found around the world,
public opinion surveys from the Pew Research Center's Global Attitudes Project
and the BBC reveal that China's image ranges between mixed and poor. And the
negative view is expanding: for almost a decade, European public opinion toward
China has been the most negative in the world, but that is now matched in
America and Asia.

There are likewise increasing signs of strain with Russia: on the surface, there
is considerable harmony of worldviews and interests, but underneath lie
lingering historical suspicions, growing trade frictions, problems stemming from
Russia's military sales to China, immigration controversies and nascent
strategic competition in Central Asia.

China's reputation has also deteriorated in the Middle East and among the Arab
League due to the country's support for the Syrian and Iranian regimes as well
as its persecution of Muslim minorities in far western China, a policy that has
also sullied its image in Central Asia.

Even in Africa -- where relations remain positive on the whole -- China's image
has deteriorated over the past three years as a result of the flood of Chinese
entrepreneurs, its rapacious extraction of oil and other raw materials, aid
projects that seem to benefit Chinese construction companies as much as
recipient countries and support for unsavory governments. A similar downturn is
apparent in Latin America for the same reasons.

Finally, China's most important relationship -- with the United States -- is
also troubled. It is now a combination of tight interdependence, occasional
cooperation, growing competition and deepening distrust.

For both sides, the critical question is how to manage an increasingly
competitive and distrustful relationship without its becoming a full-blown
adversarial relationship. Neither country has any experience handling such
strategic competition amid deep interdependence, although we can hope that the
latter feature will buffer the former.

While the decline in China's image may be global, the reasons differ from region
to region.

China's huge trade surpluses have contributed directly and indirectly to job
losses around the world, but the impact on its image has been most pronounced in
Europe, Latin America and the United States, where China seems to loom as an
unprecedented economic threat.

Meanwhile, China's military modernization and regional muscle-flexing in Asia
has tarnished its reputation among its neighbors. Its unprecedented cyber
-hacking has skyrocketed to the top of the agenda of Sino-American relations in
recent weeks, while China's domestic human rights situation has been a
long-standing concern in the West.

Underlying many of these complaints are China's authoritarian political system
and its business practices, which are opaque and riddled with corruption.

While trying to broaden their global operations, China's multinational
corporations often encounter substantial difficulties establishing themselves
abroad and gaining global market share. China does not have a single corporate
brand listed in the top 100 of the annual Businessweek/Interbrand global
rankings of respected corporate brands.

Given China's growth rates, its image might not seem to matter much. But it
does. As a result of China's declining image, its new president, Xi Jinping, and
his new foreign policy team face mounting foreign policy difficulties and
challenges, both perceptually and substantively.

Mounting suspicions and growing frictions are part and parcel of being a global
power. But China would be better advised to substantively engage foreign
criticisms than to reflexively dismiss them or respond with unconvincing
public-relations campaigns.

There are any number of immediate steps China could take. It should work to halt
its hacking. It should open its markets and reduce its trade surpluses, while
restricting subsidies to its foreign investment and exports. It should protect
intellectual property rights and ratify and adhere to the United Nations
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which commits its members
to protect individual liberties.

In foreign policy, it should involve itself in multinational negotiations under
the Law of the Sea Treaty to resolve its disputes in the South China Sea,
negotiate a settlement with Japan over its disputed islands and pressure North
Korea and Iran to end their nuclear programs. It should also be transparent in
its overseas aid programs and military budgets, and it should better respect
sensitivities in developing countries over China's extraction of natural
resources.

Taking such steps would go much further toward enhancing China's international
image than the billions of dollars the country is currently pumping into its
overseas propaganda efforts.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/03/19/opinion/falling-out-of-love-with-china.html

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 25, 2013 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Luring Young Web Warriors Is a U.S. Priority. It's Also a Game.

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1107 words


WASHINGTON -- In the eighth grade, Arlan Jaska figured out how to write a simple
script that could switch his keyboard's Caps Lock key on and off 6,000 times a
minute. When friends weren't looking, he slipped his program onto their
computers. It was all fun and games until the program spread to his middle
school.

''They called my parents and told my dad I was hacking their computers,'' Mr.
Jaska, 17 years old, recalled. He was grounded and got detention. And he is just
the type the Department of Homeland Security is looking for.

The secretary of that agency, Janet Napolitano, knows she has a problem that
will only worsen. Foreign hackers have been attacking her agency's computer
systems. They have also been busy trying to siphon the nation's wealth and steal
valuable trade secrets. And they have begun probing the nation's infrastructure
-- the power grid, and water and transportation systems.

So she needs her own hackers -- 600, the agency estimates. But potential
recruits with the right skills have too often been heading for business, and
those who do choose government work often go to the National Security Agency,
where they work on offensive digital strategies. At Homeland Security, the
emphasis is on keeping hackers out, or playing defense.

''We have to show them how cool and exciting this is,'' said Ed Skoudis, one of
the nation's top computer security trainers. ''And we have to show them that
applying these skills to the public sector is important.''

One answer? Start young, and make it a game, even a contest.

This month, Mr. Jaska and his classmate Collin Berman took top spots at the
Virginia Governor's Cup Cyber Challenge, a veritable smackdown of hacking for
high school students that was the brainchild of Alan Paller, a security expert,
and others in the field.

With military exercises like NetWars, the competition, the first in a series,
had more the feel of a video game. Mr. Paller helped create Cyber Aces, the
nonprofit group that was host of the competition, to help Homeland Security, and
likens the agency's need for hackers to the shortage of fighter pilots during
World War II.

The job calls for a certain maverick attitude. ''I like to break things,'' Mr.
Berman, 18, said. ''I always want to know, 'How can I change this so it does
something else?' ''

It's a far different pursuit -- and a higher-minded one, enlightened hackers
will say -- than simply defacing Web sites.

''You want people who ask: How do things work? But the very best ones turn it
around,'' said Mr. Paller, director of research at the SANS Institute, a
computer security training organization.

It's no coincidence that the idea of using competitions came, in part, from
China, where the People's Liberation Army runs challenges every spring to
identify its next generation of digital warriors.

Tan Dailin, a graduate student, won several of the events in 2005. Soon
afterward he put his skills to work and was caught breaking into the Pentagon's
network and sending reams of documents back to servers in China.

''We have no program like that in the United States -- nothing,'' Mr. Paller
said. ''No one is even teaching this in schools. If we don't solve this problem,
we're in trouble.''

At Northern Virginia's acclaimed Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and
Technology, which both Mr. Jaska and Mr. Berman attend, there are five computer
science teachers, but none focused on security.

When eight students expressed interest in starting a security club, they had to
persuade a Raytheon employee to meet with them once a week. (One idea for a
name, the Hacking Club, didn't last.

''We don't want people who are going to go around defacing sites,'' Mr. Berman
said. They recently rebranded from the Cybersecurity Club to the Computer
Security Club. The group dropped the ''Cyber'' because ''it sounds like you're
trying to be cool but you're not,'' clarified Mr. Jaska.)

Mr. Jaska and Mr. Berman heard about the Virginia competition through their
school. To qualify, they had to identify bad passwords and clean up security
settings -- a long way from a Caps Lock program.

Some 700 students from 110 Virginia high schools applied, but only 40, including
Mr. Jaska and Mr. Berman, made the cut.

So, three weeks ago, the pair traveled to the Governor's Cup Cyber Challenge at
George Mason University.

There, they found something they rarely encounter in high school -- a thriving
community of like-minded teenagers, the best and brightest of a highly
specialized task.

''For some of the kids, who tended to be a little bit loners, this was the first
time they had a peer group,'' Mr. Paller said. ''They were having excited
conversations about arcane technical issues -- something they never get to do --
and their parents exalted in it.''

The students faced the same five-level test that the military uses to test its
own security experts. They earned points for cracking passwords, flagging
vulnerabilities and breaking into a Web site administrator's account where, had
they changed any settings or defaced a site, they would have been eliminated.
Their scores were displayed in real time on a leader board.

After several hours, the winners were announced. A third of the students had
made it to Level 3 -- a level that Rear Adm. Gib Godwin, chairman of the
Governor's Cup, said typically requires someone with seven to 10 years of
experience to achieve. Mr. Jaska won, earning a $5,000 scholarship. Mr. Berman
won $1,500 for third place.

The idea for such competitions is nothing new. For years, a hacking conference
called DefCon has hosted games like Capture the Flag in which teams earn points
for hacking into each other's computers. The Air Force started a Cyber Patriot
competition in which hackers defend against a ''Red Team'' trying to steal data.
And the Defense Department has its own Digital Forensics Challenge. But none of
these was meant for individual high school students.

''The goal is to create a continuum, similar to the way kids go to junior high,
high school, college and get their Ph.D.,'' Admiral Godwin said. ''We want to
create the same flow for kids in the cyber domain.''

This summer, Mr. Jaska is hoping to be an intern at Northrop Grumman. Mr. Berman
is considering an internship at Homeland Security. But Ms. Napolitano still has
some convincing to do.

But asked about their dream job, both said they wanted to work in the private
sector. ''The problem with going into the government is you're going to make a
lot less,'' said Mr. Berman.

''Everything's slower, there's budget cuts and bureaucracy everywhere and you
can't talk about what you do,'' Mr. Jaska added. ''It just doesn't seem like as
much fun.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/03/25/technology/united-states-wants-to-attract-hack
ers-to-public-sector.html

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             March 25, 2013 Monday

Daily Report: Luring Young Web Warriors Is a U.S. Priority. It's Also a Game.

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 420 words



HIGHLIGHT: Taking a page from China, the United States is scouring high schools
for hackers with an eye to bringing them along to one day defend the nation from
foreign attack.


In the eighth grade, Arlan Jaska figured out how to write a simple script that
could switch his keyboard's Caps Lock key on and off 6,000 times a minute. When
friends weren't looking, he slipped his program onto their computers. It was all
fun and games until the program spread to his middle school.

"They called my parents and told my dad I was hacking their computers," Mr.
Jaska, now 17, recalled. He was grounded and got detention. And he is just the
type the Department of Homeland Security is looking for, Nicole Perlroth writes
on Monday in The New York Times.

The secretary of that agency, Janet Napolitano, knows she has a problem that
will only worsen. Foreign hackers have been attacking her agency's computer
systems. They have also been busy trying to siphon the nation's wealth and steal
valuable trade secrets. And they have begun probing the nation's infrastructure
- the power grid and water and transportation systems.

So she needs her own hackers - 600, the agency estimates. But potential recruits
with the right skills have too often been heading for business, and those who do
choose government work often go to the National Security Agency, where they work
on offensive digital strategies. At Homeland Security, the emphasis is on
keeping hackers out, or playing defense.

"We have to show them how cool and exciting this is," said Ed Skoudis, one of
the nation's top computer security trainers. "And we have to show them that
applying these skills to the public sector is important."

One answer? Start young, and make it a game, even a contest.

This month, Mr. Jaska and his classmate Collin Berman took top spots at the
Virginia Governor's Cup Cyber Challenge, a veritable smackdown of hacking for
high school students that was the brainchild of Alan Paller, a security expert,
and others in the field.

With military exercises like NetWars, the competition had more the feel of a
video game. Mr. Paller helped create the competition, the first in a series, to
help Homeland Security, and likens the agency's need for hackers to the shortage
of fighter pilots during World War II.

The job calls for a certain maverick attitude. "I like to break things," Mr.
Berman, 18, said. "I always want to know, 'How can I change this so it does
something else?' "


     ·    Critical Infrastructure Systems Seen as Vulnerable to Attack
     ·    Serious Flaw in Java Software Is Found, Then Patched
     ·    The Internet Attack That Wasn't
     ·    Online Voter Registration Is Called Vulnerable to Hackers
     ·    The Frightening Things You Hear at a Black Hat Conference


LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                             March 26, 2013 Tuesday

Calling All High School Hackers

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 233 words



HIGHLIGHT: Why is Arlan Jaska &#8220;just the type the Department of Homeland
Security is looking for&#8221;?


 In "Luring Young Web Warriors Is a Priority. It's Also a Game.," Nicole
Perlroth writes about how and why the U.S. government is now searching high
schools for talented computer hackers.

WHY is Arlan Jaska "just the type the Department of Homeland Security is looking
for"?
 WHY do you think security expert Alan Paller means when he says, "No one is
even teaching this in schools. If we don't solve this problem, we're in
trouble."

HOW many hackers does the Department of Homeland Security estimate it needs to
"play defense" against foreign hackers?
 HOW is the agency trying to show young people how "cool and exciting" Web
skills can be?

WHAT is the Cup Cyber Challenge, and WHAT was the five-level test the high
school students had to pass to win?

WHERE did the idea for using competitions to lure the next generation of digital
warriors come from, in part?

WHO is Tan Dailin?

WHEN have there been previous competitions like this, though not for high school
students?

Related: Our lesson plan "Espionage Everywhere: Spying in the News and Popular
Culture," and our fill-in on code cracking.


     ·    Should Computer Games Be Used for Classroom Instruction?
     ·    Google Admits to Privacy Violations in Street-Mapping Project
     ·    Would You Rather Work From Home or in an Office?
     ·    3-D Printers Might Be the Must-Have Gadget of the Future
     ·    Hacking Campaign, Seen as Linked to China's Army, Targets U.S.
          Industry and Government


LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                            March 27, 2013 Wednesday

Spies and Big Business Fight Cyberattacks

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 773 words



HIGHLIGHT: Cyberwar or cyberhype? Britain&#8217;s announcement of a new
initiative to combat cyberattacks comes at a time when some experts are
challenging claims about the magnitude of the threat.


LONDON - Britain's intelligence services, working alongside security experts
from private companies, are setting up a secret control center in London to
combat what the head of the country's domestic spy agency has described as
"astonishing" levels of cyberattacks.

The existence of the so-called Fusion Cell was due to be confirmed on Wednesday
in a statement on the government's strategy to boost information sharing in an
expanding cyberwar against online attackers.

'The Fusion Cell' - not a new nightclub in London - a new Cyber defense
Intelligence HQ -http://t.co/GuVDUydBWo

- Tim Marshall (@Skytwitius)27 Mar 13

A team of security analysts at an undisclosed location will monitor attacks on
large screens and provide details in real-time of who is being targeted,
according to the BBC.

The British initiative, which also includes the creation of a social
network-style Web portal to facilitate information exchange, is the latest in a
series of international measures to combat what is seen as the growing threat of
cyberattacks to both business and government networks.

President Obama last month signed an executive order to increase information
sharing about cyberthreats between the government and private companies.

"We have seen a steady ramping up of cybersecurity threats," Mr. Obama said in a
recent interview. "Some are state sponsored, some are just sponsored by
criminals."

Jonathan Evans, the outgoing head of MI5, Britain's domestic intelligence
agency, made a similar point  ahead of last year's London Olympic Games.

"Vulnerabilities in the internet are being exploited aggressively not just by
criminals but also by states," he said in a rare interview. "The extent of what
is going on is astonishing."

The victims are said to include big companies. The BBC said one major London
listed company had lost the equivalent of $1.2 billion as a result of a
cyberattack from a hostile state.

Some 160 companies - from the financial, defense, energy, telecommunications and
pharmaceutical sector - have signed up to a pilot program for the British
government's information sharing initiative since it was launched last year.

The European Union, meanwhile, is studying proposals for greater information
sharing among the 27-member alliance following a series of high-profile
cyberattacks directed at eBay, PayPal and Diginotar, a Dutch Internet
certificate company.

Despite increased international attention to a growing cyberwar, some skeptics
believe the threat is being hyped by governments and by companies involved in an
increasingly lucrative and pervasive security industry.

"Anything that uses 'cyber' in its title is a con and should be laughed out of
the room," according to Glynn Moody, blogging at ComputerWorld UK this week.

"Yes, attacks take place, but the fact that they take place across the Internet
is no different from those using any other technology," wrote Mr. Moody, an
"open source" expert.

"Trying to claim that the 'cyberthreat' is somehow qualitatively different is
merely a demonstration of the abiding ignorance and fear that afflicts our
rulers when it comes to the digital realm."

In the United States and elsewhere, plans to combat the threat have raised
privacy concerns and accusations that governments are overreacting.

"A reminder is in order," Thomas Rid wrote at Foreign Policy this month. "The
world has yet to witness a single casualty, let alone fatality, as a result of a
computer attack."

Mr. Rid, a London University war studies expert, said private computer security
companies were keen to pocket government money earmarked for cybersecurity. "And
hype is the means to that end."

The cybertrend has already been spotted by investors. The U.S.-based Investment
U Web site said this week it had spotted "a great investment opportunity" back
in 2011.

"Fast forward to the present," Investment U's Jason Jenkins wrote. "Cyber stocks
are finally starting to move. And the cybercrime issue has exploded - not just
in terms of domestic fraud, but it has now been elevated to national security
problem No. 1."

The potential opportunities were spotted by the British government as it
prepared to announce its new Fusion Cell.

"Businesses that take cybersecurity seriously can gain commercial advantages
from doing so," James Brokenshire, the British minister for security, said
earlier this month, adding, "The U.K. can export expertise through the growth of
a vibrant U.K. security industry."


     ·    Expat Fury at Cyprus 'Bank Raid'
     ·    Britain and France Push for Arming Syrian Opposition
     ·    A More Opaque British Government
     ·    Europe's Jobless Youth: Should the Old Make Way?
     ·    Europe Moves to Cap Bank Bonuses, Britain Hesitates


LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 29, 2013 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cyberattacks Seem Meant to Destroy, Not Just Disrupt

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1437 words


American Express customers trying to gain access to their online accounts
Thursday were met with blank screens or an ominous ancient type face. The
company confirmed that its Web site had come under attack.

The assault, which took American Express offline for two hours, was the latest
in an intensifying campaign of unusually powerful attacks on American financial
institutions that began last September and have taken dozens of them offline
intermittently, costing millions of dollars.

JPMorgan Chase was taken offline by a similar attack this month. And last week,
a separate, aggressive attack incapacitated 32,000 computers at South Korea's
banks and television networks.

The culprits of these attacks, officials and experts say, appear intent on
disabling financial transactions and operations.

Corporate leaders have long feared online attacks aimed at financial fraud or
economic espionage, but now a new threat has taken hold: attackers, possibly
with state backing, who seem bent on destruction.

''The attacks have changed from espionage to destruction,'' said Alan Paller,
director of research at the SANS Institute, a cybersecurity training
organization. ''Nations are actively testing how far they can go before we will
respond.''

Security experts who studied the attacks said that it was part of the same
campaign that took down the Web sites of JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo, Bank of
America and others over the last six months. A group that calls itself the Izz
ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters has claimed responsibility for those attacks.

The group says it is retaliating for an anti-Islamic video posted on YouTube
last fall. But American intelligence officials and industry investigators say
they believe the group is a convenient cover for Iran. Just how tight the
connection is -- or whether the group is acting on direct orders from the
Iranian government -- is unclear. Government officials and bank executives have
failed to produce a smoking gun.

North Korea is considered the most likely source of the attacks on South Korea,
though investigators are struggling to follow the digital trail, a process that
could take months. The North Korean government of Kim Jong-un has openly
declared that it is seeking online targets in its neighbor to the south to exact
economic damage.

Representatives of American Express confirmed that the company was under attack
Thursday, but said that there was no evidence that customer data had been
compromised. A representative of the Federal Bureau of Investigation did not
respond to a request for comment on the American Express attack.

Spokesmen for JPMorgan Chase said they would not talk about the recent attack
there, its origins or its consequences. JPMorgan has openly acknowledged
previous denial of service attacks. But the size and severity of the most recent
one apparently led it to reconsider.

The Obama administration has publicly urged companies to be more transparent
about attacks, but often security experts and lawyers give the opposite advice.

The largest contingent of instigators of attacks in the private sector,
government officials and researchers say, remains Chinese hackers intent on
stealing corporate secrets.

The American and South Korean attacks underscore a growing fear that the two
countries most worrisome to banks, oil producers and governments may be Iran and
North Korea, not because of their skill but because of their brazenness. Neither
country is considered a superstar in this area. The appeal of digital weapons is
similar to that of nuclear capability: it is a way for an outgunned, outfinanced
nation to even the playing field. ''These countries are pursuing cyberweapons
the same way they are pursuing nuclear weapons,'' said James A. Lewis, a
computer security expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies
in Washington. ''It's primitive; it's not top of the line, but it's good enough
and they are committed to getting it.''

American officials are currently weighing their response options, but the issues
involved are complex. At a meeting of banking executives, regulators and
representatives from the departments of Homeland Security and Treasury last
December, some pressed the United States to hit back at the hackers, while
others argued that doing so would only lead to more aggressive attacks,
according to two people who attended the meeting.

The difficulty of deterring such attacks was also the focus of a White House
meeting this month with Mr. Obama and business leaders, including the chief
executives Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase; Brian T. Moynihan of Bank of America;
Rex W. Tillerson of Exxon Mobil; Randall L. Stephenson of AT&T and others.

Mr. Obama's goal was to erode the business community's intense opposition to
federal legislation that would give the government oversight of how companies
protect ''critical infrastructure,'' like banking systems and energy and
cellphone networks. That opposition killed a bill last year, prompting Mr. Obama
to sign an executive order promoting increased information-sharing with
businesses.

''But I think we heard a new tone at this latest meeting,'' an Obama aide said
later. ''Six months of unrelenting attacks have changed some views.''

Mr. Lewis, the computer security expert, agreed. ''The Iranian attacks have
tilted private sector opinion,'' he said. ''Hence the muted reaction to the
executive order versus squeals of outrage. Companies are much more concerned
about this and much more willing to see a government role.''

Neither Iran nor North Korea has shown anywhere near the subtlety and technique
in online offensive skills that the United States and Israel demonstrated with
Olympic Games, the ostensible effort to disable Iran's nuclear enrichment plants
with an online weapon that destabilized hundreds of centrifuges, destroying many
of them. But after descriptions of that operation became public in the summer of
2010, Iran announced the creation of its own Cyber Corps.

North Korea has had hackers for years, some of whom are believed to be operating
from, or through, China. Neither North Korea nor Iran is as focused on stealing
data as they are determined to destroy it, experts contend.

When hackers believed by American intelligence officials to be Iranians hit the
world's largest oil producer, Saudi Aramco, last year, they did not just erase
data on 30,000 Aramco computers; they replaced the data with an image of a
burning American flag. In the assault on South Korea last week, some affected
computers displayed an ominous image of skulls.

''This attack is as much a cyber-rampage as it is a cyberattack,'' Rob Rachwald,
a research director at FireEye, a computer security firm, said of the South
Korea attacks.

In the past, such assaults typically occurred through a denial-of-service
attack, in which hackers flood their target with Web traffic from networks of
infected computers until it is overwhelmed and shuts down. One such case was a
2007 Russian attack on Estonia that affected its banks, the Parliament,
ministries, newspapers and broadcasters.

With their campaign against American financial institutions, the hackers
suspected of being Iranian have taken that kind of attack to the next level.
Instead of using individual personal computers to fire Web traffic at each bank,
they infected powerful, commercial data centers with sophisticated malware and
directed them to simultaneously fire at each bank, giving them the horsepower to
inflict a huge attack.

As a result, the hackers were able to take down the consumer banking sites of
American Express, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Wells Fargo and other banks
with exponentially more traffic than hit Estonia in 2007.

In the attack on Saudi Aramco last year, the culprits did not mount that type of
assault. Instead, they created malware designed for the greatest impact, coded
to spread to as many computers as possible.

Likewise, the attacks last week on South Korean banks and broadcasters were far
more sophisticated than coordinated denial-of-service attacks in 2009 that
briefly took down the Web sites of South Korea's president and its Defense
Ministry. Such attacks were annoyances; they largely did not affect operations.

This time around in South Korea, however, the attackers engineered malware that
could evade popular South Korean antivirus products, spread it to as many
computer systems as possible, and inserted a ''time bomb'' to take out all the
systems at once for greatest impact.

The biggest concern, Mr. Lewis said: ''We don't know how they make decisions.
When you add erratic decision making, then you really have something to worry
about.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/03/29/technology/corporate-cyberattackers-possibly-s
tate-backed-now-seek-to-destroy-data.html

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Officials at a South Korean security agency study an attack that
disabled 32,000 computers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUNG YEON-JE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE --
GETTY IMAGES) (B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             March 29, 2013 Friday

Daily Report: Cyberattacks Seem Meant to Destroy, Not Just Disrupt

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 324 words



HIGHLIGHT: American Express is the latest victim in a wave of attacks on the
online operations of American banks, David E. Sanger and Nicole Perlroth on
Friday in The New York Times.


American Express customers trying to gain access to their online accounts on
Thursday were met with blank screens or an ominous ancient type face. The
company confirmed that its Web site had come under attack, David E. Sanger and
Nicole Perlroth report on Friday in The New York Times.

The assault was the latest in an intensifying campaign of unusually powerful
attacks on American financial institutions that began in September and have
taken dozens of them offline intermittently, costing millions of dollars.

Corporate leaders have long feared online attacks aimed at financial fraud or
economic espionage, but now a new threat has taken hold: attackers, possibly
with state backing, who seem bent on destruction.

"The attacks have changed from espionage to destruction," said Alan Paller,
director of research at SANS, a cybersecurity training organization. "Nations
are actively testing how far they can go before we will respond."

Security experts who studied the attack said it was part of the same campaign
that took down the Web sites of JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo, Bank of America and
others over the last six months. A group that calls itself the Izz ad-Din
al-Qassam Cyber Fighters has claimed responsibility for those attacks.

The group says it is retaliating for an anti-Islamic video posted on YouTube
last fall. But American intelligence officials and industry investigators say
they believe that the group is a convenient cover for Iran. Just how tight the
connection is - or whether the group is acting on direct orders from the Iranian
government - is unclear. Government officials and bank executives have failed to
produce a smoking gun.


     ·    Daily Report: Hacking Attacks Are Linked to Man at Chinese Firm
     ·    Security Meeting Focuses on the Basics
     ·    Executives May Be Too Confident on Cybersecurity, Survey Finds
     ·    Daily Report: Dispute on Spam Stirs Big Assault on the Internet
     ·    Daily Report: Google Concedes That Drive-by Prying Violated Privacy


LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 31, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

We Do Not Want to Go Home Again

BYLINE: By JOYCE COHEN

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; THE HUNT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 912 words


John Swan was acutely aware of what his apartment on the Upper East Side lacked
-- a living room.

He and his roommate each had large bedrooms, but the only common space was a
small kitchen with a column smack in the middle. With no place to sit or to hang
a television, ''we were relegated to our rooms,'' Mr. Swan said. He longed to
''be sociable and have friends over and not be stuck in my bedroom.'' Each man
paid $1,125 a month.

With the lease about to expire last fall, Mr. Swan turned to Craigslist, hunting
for a roommate-needed situation. But even a tiny room was beyond his price range
of $1,300 to $1,600 a month.

Mr. Swan, now 25, is a graduate of Georgetown and an account executive at
Translation, an ad agency. From Fairfield County, Conn., he was determined not
to return home temporarily.

That's what Sarah Masel, a Kenyon College graduate, had done. After a few years
in Washington, D.C., she had landed a job in New York as a social media analyst
at WCG, a public relations company.

Ms. Masel, now 26, found herself unhappily commuting for more than an hour from
Union County, N.J., where ''going to a movie with your parents was your big
weekend plan,'' she said. She, too, tried Craigslist.

''Every day that I looked,'' she added, ''my budget increased a little bit.'' It
rose to $1,600 a month. She disliked open houses for prospective roommates: ''It
was like showing up at cocktail hour or speed-dating where you had to prove how
much cooler you were than the other applicants.'' A former colleague connected
her with Mr. Swan. They, along with a third friend, joined forces to hunt for a
three-bedroom.

A ground-floor apartment on East Seventh Street in the East Village offered
ample of space and two bathrooms. The rent was $4,100 a month. Unpolished, with
a small kitchen, it seemed like two apartments stuck together. ''The more I
thought about it,'' Ms. Masel said, ''the location and the quirkiness of the
whole place, it grew on me.''

But the application process was tedious. The landlord, having run a background
check, informed them that Mr. Swan had once been evicted. The evictee turned out
to be someone with a similar name.

''We are in the age of cyber-identity theft,'' Mr. Swan said, ''so the first
thing I am thinking is someone has my Social Security number and this could
damage my credit.'' He had a bad feeling about the whole situation. They moved
on.

For $4,250 a month, a three-bedroom in a lovely prewar building on far West 14th
Street, near the meatpacking district, seemed ideal. ''We found it!'' Mr. Swan
declared. ''I did the mad dash to the A.T.M. to get the $500 that guarantees
your application at the front of the line.''

But they were too late, and the $500 was refunded. The third roommate, holding
out for the East Village, bowed out. So they began looking for a two-bedroom.

With Mr. Swan's lease about to expire, ''we weren't picky,'' he said. ''I have
never been more anxious or stressed in my life.''

A two-bedroom arose on Chrystie Street on the Lower East Side. For $3,200 a
month, it seemed pricey for the size, and the ground-floor location meant ''you
could hear every car, every voice that walked past the window,'' Mr. Swan
recalled.

In October, searching without Ms. Masel, who had been marooned in New Jersey by
Hurricane Sandy, he went to see a two-bedroom place in a walk-up building on
Grand Street in SoHo. Because of the storm, the power was out, so Mr. Swan and
the agent climbed to the sixth floor with a flashlight. But sun flooded the
apartment, though the view was primarily of airshafts. One bedroom had no
closet.

A dirty carpet covered the floor; an ugly 1970s lighting fixture dominated the
living room. The former tenants had apparently departed abruptly, leaving items
behind. ''It looked like a ghost town where everyone drops everything and there
is still coffee in the pot,'' Mr. Swan said. The price, $3,200 a month, was at
the top of their range.

''The space was great,'' Mr. Swan said, ''but it was in disarray.''

Just after that, Ms. Masel made it to the city for a wedding. The next day, over
brunch, Mr. Swan told her about the SoHo apartment. ''The more we drank our
Bloody Marys,'' Ms. Masel said, ''the more he loosened up to the idea of seeing
it again.''

Luckily, they were able to get in immediately. ''It kind of felt like we were
trespassing,'' she said, ''like someone was going to pop out of the bedroom and
tell us to get out. I was weirded out by the whole experience.''

But the living room was perfectly hospitable, and the kitchen had room for a
table. The roommates offered $3,000 a month, and wound up settling at $3,100.
The landlord agreed to remove the carpet. The light fixture is gone.

The two arrived last fall, paying a broker fee of 15 percent of a year's rent,
or $5,580. They furnished the place with parent-provided hand-me-downs. Ms.
Masel's bedroom -- the one with the closet -- had a loud, leaky radiator. She
collected the drips in a huge salad bowl, until the landlord took the radiator
out. There's still too much heat.

The roommates have grown used to the climb. ''Eighty steps are a lot,''
especially with groceries or laundry, Mr. Swan said. ''But it's a small price to
pay for the space we have now.''

Both are happy with the apartment. The living room is filled with parties and
friends, television and talk.

''It is better than going home and sitting in my bedroom,'' Mr. Swan said. ''The
living room is the heart of the apartment.''

E-mail: thehunt@nytimes.com

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/03/31/realestate/we-do-not-want-to-go-home-again.htm
l

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: West 14th: A three-bedroom seemed just right. But someone else
got there first. Then the third prospective roommate dropped out.
Chrystie Street: You could hear every passing car and footfall from a
two-bedroom on the ground floor. And the monthly rent was over budget.
Grand Street: At first glance, the place in a walk-up building did not look
good. But on second thought, it was worth another visit.
 The Renters: John Swan and Sarah Masel don't mind their 80-step climb. ''It's a
small price to pay for the space we have now,'' Mr. Swan says.  (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
MIMI KO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Opinionator)

                            April 3, 2013 Wednesday

Guns, Guns, Guns

BYLINE: DAVID BROOKS and GAIL COLLINS

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1651 words



HIGHLIGHT: Brooks and Collins on what to do about the omnipresence of weapons,
from Illinois to Colorado to Texas to North Korea.


Gail Collins: David, I know we've both been felled by the flu lately. I had a
shot. Did you? I was thinking today we could talk about the danger of creating a
false sense of security.

David Brooks: No, I don't get shots. As a conservative, I feel that might create
a culture of dependency. If I start giving my body flu shots to make it feel
better, pretty soon it might want vegetables. Before long you're on the slippery
slope to protein shakes and exercise.

I took a laissez-faire approach to the flu, waiting for the invisible hand to
cure it. Interestingly, my flu seems to have settled in my ears. I had to take a
flight in the middle of it and my ears remained stopped up for days. I
discovered that if you can't hear other people's opinions it's much easier not
to listen.

Gail: I'm tempted to devote this entire conversation to plane-ear issues. But I
was actually intending to casually slide into a policy matter - that false sense
of security. There's a lot of that going around. I don't, for instance, believe
spending another $1 billion on Alaskan missile defense is going to protect us
from anything North Korea is actually capable of doing. I suppose we've wasted
money on worse things, but I sure hope the administration's strategy for dealing
with Kim Jong-un isn't based on the theory that we have some kind of invisible
protective shield.

David: As a mutual friend of ours would say: Kids, do not try this at home! To
segue from the protective shield of flu shots to the protective shield of
Alaskan missile defense takes column writing skill of a high order. Before I
tackle the substance, let me salute the deftness of your transition.

I can guarantee you that the administration's North Korea strategy is not based
on missile defense because as far as I can tell we don't have a strategy. Not
that I blame them. How do you deal with a nuclear armed proto-psychotic regime?
I think you just try to string it along and hope that something comes up. Every
day of non-nuclear war is a victory.

Gail: Also, while we're talking about very expensive, somewhat mythic protection
- there's the Mexican border. Illegal immigration can never be completely
stopped, no matter how high the wall or how many patrol agents you have watching
it. We're already hitting the point of diminishing returns. You reduce illegal
immigration by making it harder to get jobs here, or easier to get jobs south of
the border. This idea that we can't pass an immigration law until we hit some
imaginary security target is just a way to derail reform.

David: My, you are in a prophylactic mood. Next thing you know you'll be talking
about the V-chip, the little doohickey that was supposed to keep vulgar culture
out of our homes. Then along came a little thing called the Internet.

My position on the border fence is that we have to at least show great deference
to those who want border security first, given how those people were so baldly
misled the last time we did immigration reform. Bulking up border security
forces still more may make no sense as policy (our border patrols already have
an air force bigger than most midsize nations), but it's a small price to pay to
get an immigration law.

Gail: That's a pretty sensible theory, and as a reward I'll stop jumping around.
Let's settle on guns and the theory that people need to have them to be safe.
Witness the NRA's fascinating new plan to make schools safe by arming the
teachers. I also noticed that the City Council in Nelson, Georgia, just voted to
require every householder to have a gun in the name of public security. The
resolution's pretty meaningless, but the myth that more guns means a safer
community is really a problem.

David: Well, I don't agree with that argument, but I do acknowledge that we have
comparatively low rates of home invasion and robberies because thieves are
afraid of running into armed homeowners.

Gail:  There are competing studies on how much crime drops or doesn't drop when
there are strict rules on gun possession and sale. I don't think there's any
question that New York City's very tough laws have reduced violence.

David: On the other hand, there's Chicago, where tight laws haven't historically
worked as well. What matters is policing. It's much more important than gun laws
in reducing crime. By the way, Chicago is now changing its policing methods and
we're beginning to see a sharp drop in the murder rate there.

Gail: But the most effective policing techniques all start with keeping people
from carrying concealed weapons. Which goes back to the idea that tight gun
regulations are much better for safety than an atmosphere in which everybody's
packing heat. Have you been following the case in Texas? Two months ago an
assistant district attorney was assassinated in broad daylight in a county
outside Dallas. Last weekend, the D.A. of the same county, Mike McLelland, was
murdered in his home along with his wife, by someone wielding a rifle.

There are varying theories about the culprits, but think about the D.A.: He had
spent 23 years in the Army and was proud of his gun skills. He knew there was a
good chance that he might be a target. He told a reporter that he was carrying a
gun everywhere. But in the end, he couldn't protect himself or his wife from
home invaders. This is certainly not a critique of McLelland, but I do think it
speaks to the shakiness of the idea that carrying guns make you safe.

David: I really don't think this is your strongest argument. In that Texas
county, there is at least one cold-blooded killer and maybe more, out to take
down prosecutors. Owning a gun did not keep McLelland safe, but not owning a gun
would not have made him safer.

Gail: But making it harder for the shooters to get their hands on weapons might
have.

David: It's possible to imagine that in some sorts of confrontation with that
killer or killers like this, a gun might have come in handy. The gun-rights
people argue that when guns are controlled only the bad people will have guns.
With killers this ruthless, this seems to buttress that argument.

Gail:  Do you remember the short, pathetic, debate the Senate Judiciary
Committee had on assault weapons? John Cornyn of Texas offered a list of news
stories about people using assault rifles to defend themselves. There were nine.
Over 17 years. And they included things like "tenant shoots intruder on porch."

David: This is one of those cases where the liberal position - take away hand
guns altogether - seems credible to me, but the moderate position -  regulate
certain kinds of semi-automatics - seems trivial. If gun violence is a real
problem, then we should go after the guns used in the vast majority of all
crimes, handguns.

Gail: I agree with you about handguns, but the thing about the assault weapons
is that they aren't appropriate for any normal civilian purpose. No good for
hunting. Way more than you need to protect yourself from an intruder if you live
in an isolated home. I was really turned off by Senator Lindsey Graham's
argument in the Judiciary Committee - that his constituents might need an
assault weapon in case of some kind of multi-level disaster involving cyber
attacks, broken dams and chemical warfare. Especially after he acknowledged that
the AR-15 he bragged about owning himself is a souvenir that he's never shot.
Really, if you're expecting a flood/poison gas attack/computer implosion, you
should be practicing.

David: I'd focus on the size of the magazine clips. That's more effective than
trying to regulate some guns that are only cosmetically different than other
guns.

Gail: Once again we are in agreement. Banning the magazines would be great, but
I don't see that happening either. The one thing I did have hopes for was some
serious reform of the gun background check laws. But now that seems to be
slipping away too. Opponents keep claiming it'll lead to some kind of universal
gun registration. That doesn't seem like a bad idea to me - or most other
Americans, according to the polls.

David: I'm with you on background checks and gun registration. But this
legislation would have passed much more easily if it were wrapped up in a
broader package of measures to buttress policing and fix the mental health
system. It was a big mistake to make it a gun issue instead of a violence and
social order issue.

Gail: Non-crazy gun advocates - the ones who aren't stockpiling in preparation
for a zombie invasion - don't like the idea of expanding background checks
because they think it'll be a lot more paperwork.  And it probably would make it
more difficult to sell guns at, say, a flea market. Anybody who feels that
making life easier for gun sellers at flea markets is a top national priority
would indeed have a problem.

David: I hadn't heard that argument. But I would point out that people who kill
generally don't buy guns at flea markets or gun shows. There are already roughly
250 millions guns floating around this country and people can buy them the same
way they buy drugs. On the black market. Gun shows are a bit of a distraction.
I'll believe we can control this underground gun market at the same instant I
see us controlling the underground drug market.

Gail: Well, David, take it easy. Drink lots of liquids and take vitamin C. Not
that it'll actually do any good, but at least it provides the illusion that
we're in control.

David: I'd say that last sentence is a perfect summary of American politics over
the past 50 years. By the way, right after this conversation appears I suspect
there will be millions of people across America wearing sympathy ribbons for
columnists with stuffy noses. Maybe little chartreuse ribbons with sad looking
pundit faces. I don't know about you, but I'd appreciate the moral support.


     ·    Francis Lieber and the Law of War
     ·    More on Guns, With Readers
     ·    Readers Respond to the 'Armed Society' Series
     ·    Preparing Students for a Newtown-like Disaster
     ·    The N.R.A.'s Blockade on Science


LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                            April 3, 2013 Wednesday

Free Internet Access

BYLINE: SUSAN STELLIN

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 116 words



HIGHLIGHT: The InterContinental Hotels Group is offering free Internet to its 71
million loyalty program members over the next year.


Free hotel Internet service may be reaching a tipping point. The
InterContinental Hotels Group (IHG) is offering free Internet to its 71 million
loyalty program members over the next year. Elite members of the IHG Rewards
Club will get free Internet access beginning in July when staying at any of the
company's nine hotel brands, including InterContinental Hotels & Resorts, Hotel
Indigo, Crowne Plaza, Staybridge Suites and Holiday Inn. The rest of the
program's members will get the free service starting in early 2014.


     ·    Le Meridien's Eastern Campaign
     ·    Checking Out Some Shopping
     ·    Pros Get the Shots You Can Share
     ·    Choosing a Hotel by 'Experience' and Neighborhood
     ·    Cyber Monday Now Includes Hotel Deals


LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                             April 4, 2013 Thursday

The Limits of Military Power

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 417 words



HIGHLIGHT: Chuck Hagel gave his first major policy address as secretary of
defense.


Chuck Hagel gave his first major policy address as secretary of defense and
devoted a good amount of space to a fundamental issue: the parameters of
conventional military power.

Mr. Hagel laid out that although the United States "is emerging from more than a
decade of war in Iraq and Afghanistan," the "threat of violent extremism
persists and continues to emanate from weak states and ungoverned spaces in the
Middle East and North Africa." Other dangers include "the increased availability
of advanced military technologies in the hands of state and non-state actors,
the risk of regional conflicts that could draw in the United States, the
debilitating and dangerous curse of human despair and poverty, as well as the
uncertain implications of environmental degradation." And let's not forget cyber
warfare, which has "grown into a defining security challenge, with potential
adversaries seeking the ability to strike at America's security, energy,
economic and critical infrastructure with the benefit of anonymity and
distance."

In other words a catalog of horrors.  Or more precisely an extremely diverse
catalog of horrors, which calls for a diverse problem-solving approach.

"The United States military remains an essential tool of American power," Mr.
Hagel said, "but one that must be used judiciously, with a keen appreciation of
its limits. Most of the pressing security challenges today have important
political, economic, and cultural components, and do not necessarily lend
themselves to being resolved by conventional military strength.  Indeed, the
most destructive and horrific attack ever on the United States came not from
fleets of ships, bombers, and armored divisions, but from 19 fanatical men
wielding box cutters and one-way plane tickets."

What the secretary seems to understand is that-basically-we can't bomb or "shock
and awe" our way out of every conflict, and that our whole military structure is
out of date.

What he didn't mention-but which I hope is also on his mind-is that in addition
to structural and strategic issues, we need to reconsider our legal approach to
national security.

A thorough "re-thinking" of American defense will have to include a push to
clear away the post-9/11 detritus: the Authorization for Use of Military Force,
the Patriot Act, the detention center at Guantanamo Bay, military
tribunals...the list goes on.


     ·    Look Who's Taking a Pay Cut
     ·    In Defense of Palestinians
     ·    Blaming the Victim
     ·    No Comment Necessary: Anti-Hagelians
     ·    More Fun With the Filibuster


LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 7, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Let's Meet

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; THE GETAWAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2922 words


IT WAS HAPPY HOUR in Austin, Tex. The sun was sinking, and music was rising on
East Sixth Street, a strip of bars and clubs with names the kid in you wants to
shout out loud: Chuggin' Monkey, Dizzy Rooster, Jackalope. Closed to cars, the
street was a thoroughfare for musicians, party promoters and people looking for
beer and a good time. Little by little they found it, disappearing into bars and
re-emerging on balconies, drinking from plastic cups and pulling on light
jackets as a March wind blew, a reminder that spring was still just out of
reach.

Most of these merrymakers (myself included) were not on vacation, despite the
beer in their hands and the parties they would soon be off to until the wee
hours. They were in town to attend South by Southwest (SXSW) Interactive, the
technology conference where entrepreneurs and executives soak up new ideas and
unblushingly plug their own. But while conferences and festivals like SXSW,
Aspen Ideas Festival, WebVisions, TED (Technology, Entertainment, Design) and
dozens of others have been career enhancers for years, they are also a terrific
and overlooked leisure travel option -- particularly if you're vacationing
alone.

Think about it: the locations (like Austin, Aspen and New York) are tourist
destinations in their own right; there's built-in entertainment (food crawls,
walking tours, cocktail hours); and -- most important -- they draw people
attracted to a common theme. Even if you're shy, all those meet-ups and lectures
(not to mention the time you spend waiting in line to get into them) make it a
breeze to strike up a conversation.

That 600-mile European bike tour you were contemplating? It's hardly the only
way to meet like-minded travelers.

New Cities, New Connections

The stranger you meet at a conference might become your pal for an hour, an
afternoon, a few days. He or she might become the Facebook friend you thumbs-up
from 1,000 miles away, or the new friend that you'll visit each year for the
rest of your life. Why, that stranger might even become your spouse.

Just how will you find these kindred spirits? Top conferences don't just offer
lectures and workshops: there are also morning jogs, field trips and dinners.
''It's like the Club Med of the intellectual,'' said Rachel Shechtman, the
founder of Story, a Manhattan boutique. Ms. Shechtman has attended conferences
like TED, PopTech and Gel (Good Experience Live) for business and in the process
has also met some of her closest friends. ''There's so much low-hanging fruit,''
she said recently while on her way to speak about the future of retailing at
TEDxHollywood, ''that even if you are an introvert both the circumstance and the
content of the conference allow for easy dialogue.''

Where that might lead, one never knows: Chelsea Clinton and her husband, Marc
Mezvinsky, met as teenagers at a Renaissance Weekend, the multigenerational
ideas festival. And though they are one of the more high-profile conference love
connections, they are part of a larger club. It's no secret that conferences are
informal places for romance.

Dan Gould, 35, who has attended Renaissance Weekends, TED, EG (Entertainment
Gathering) and a number of other conferences said they are self-selecting for
people who have big ideas and want to change the world.

''You're not going to easily find someone like that on OkCupid or in a bar,'' he
said. ''You have people who have similar values and who care about the same
sorts of things.''

Mr. Gould, a founder of the video sharing site Chill.com, had heard of couples
who met at one conference or another, but he never gave it much thought -- until
he met a woman at TED. They happened to be seated near each other during a talk
and, as is common at TED, they continued to bump into each other throughout the
four-day conference.

He invited the woman, Marina Kim, 29, to dinner with his friends at a Brazilian
restaurant. Turns out, she'd lived in Brazil for a while and taught him a thing
or two about caipirinhas. At the end of the conference, he drove her to the
airport. He didn't think a relationship was in the cards: he lives in Los
Angeles; she lives in Washington, D.C. Yet they kept in touch, meeting up in
cities like San Francisco, Washington and Malibu and, eventually, dating. Today,
Ms. Kim splits her time between Los Angeles and Washington and -- this just in
-- Mr. Gould said, ''Once I get a ring custom designed, I'm planning to ask her
to marry me.'' (Ms. Kim, consider the question popped.)

Not everyone falls in love. But many delight in trying. At SXSW Interactive you
might spend the morning chatting with someone about coding or crowd funding and,
hours later, be re-enacting the ''Oh, Lover Boy'' scene from ''Dirty Dancing.''

As Kathryn Irwin, who first attended SXSW in 1994 and hasn't missed a year since
2000, put it: ''There's been some babies, there's been a lot of dating, and a
lot of hooking up.'' Not necessarily in that order. After splitting with her
husband in 2009, she too jumped into the SXSW dating pool. ''I was like 'Oh my
gosh, there's so many beautiful men,' '' she said.

The best conferences for meeting people have a lot of attendees and a lot going
on, both within and beyond the walls of a convention center. In fact,
experienced conferencegoers often contend that the best connections are made not
during lectures and workshops, but rather in hallways, on shuttle buses and in
clubs around town. At SXSW last month there were group runs and yoga classes.
There were bikes you could borrow free of charge to explore the city. There were
cocktail hours in bars and tents and meet-ups for enthusiasts of typography,
photography and space exploration. A food-truck park ensured that favorite local
meals were within walking distance of the convention center.

Great conferences also have compelling lectures, making it impossible for
strangers not to turn to one another and compare notes, say, on TED talks like
Dan Pink (on the science of motivation) and the musician Amanda Palmer (on how
artists can be funded by fans) or SXSW sessions like ''Al Gore on the Future,''
''The New Golden Age of Human Spaceflight,'' ''The Future of Porn'' (an obvious
conversation starter).

Of the three branches of SXSW (Music, Film, Interactive), in Austin, Ms. Irwin
and other veterans I spoke with think Interactive, which lasts five days, is
best for meeting people. Music is a clique, Ms. Irwin cautioned, and Film can
be, too. Interactive, on the other hand -- where most people are in their 20s
and 30s according to a survey of attendees -- is lovingly referred to as nerd
spring break. And it has become more popular with each passing year: 30,621
people attended this year, up from 10,741 in 2009. More than 44 percent of this
year's attendees defined themselves as single in the survey. ''Interactive is
definitely a more solo group,'' said Ms. Irwin, who worked in accounting before
becoming a programmer for SXSW Interactive. ''And they're most likely to
network.''

Sometimes that happens before the conference even begins. For instance, in
January, SXSW has organized mixers in San Francisco and New York for people who
plan to attend: New Yorkers can meet fellow New Yorkers long before they arrive
in Austin (and perhaps even save on costs by making plans to share cabs or
rooms).

The networking continues at the airport. On any nonstop flight to a conference
city a fellow passenger is bound to ask you (as one asked me) if you're
attending. Your seatmate is probably going, too (mine was). And when at last you
arrive and sit down in a ballroom or exhibition hall, the stranger beside you is
likely to ask what you do or where you're from or why you've chosen to listen to
a lecture about digital teleportation. SXSW goes a step further, offering
meet-ups for ''newbies'' to facilitate friendships and teach conference
first-timers how to survive the overwhelming number of panels and parties.

One new mixer, SXsingle, is an attempt by Ms. Irwin to formalize the dating
scene there. Promoted with the maxim ''#SXsingle it's not just a hashtag, it's a
lifestyle,'' the event took place in what felt like a cozy bar but was really
the storefront of an advertising agency on East Sixth Street. Minutes after it
began, the space was at capacity and a few latecomers had to wait outside.
Beneath white Christmas lights, men and women from their 20s to 40s were
chatting and sipping free beer and wine. Among them was Charlie Nox, the master
of ceremonies and a San Francisco dating coach with a mop of dark hair. Asked
how to make the most of traveling solo, particularly if travelers are not quite
comfortable in their own skin, she replied: ''Rock your awkward.''

Translation: radical self-acceptance. Or, as Ms. Irwin explained, at a
conference with self-declared geeks, you need not worry about being one. Rather,
you might just find the perfect geek for you. Ms. Irwin, who is tall, blond and
has a calling card with a photograph of her legs in mid-calf boots and the
words, ''We met at SXSW,'' also describes herself as awkward -- until she has a
drink. Indeed, she recalled the previous evening in which after a cocktail she
ended up walking the streets of Austin rapping the Beastie Boys song ''Paul
Revere.'' (Incidentally that sort of thing doesn't raise eyebrows at SXSW, where
over 10 minutes I saw someone dressed as a mouse, a shirtless man in a cape, and
former Vice President Al Gore.)

Ms. Irwin's plans for SXsingle go beyond her own Saturday night ambitions,
however. ''I hope that it will start to create its own movement,'' she said. Her
goal? To allow SXSW attendees to meet and flirt online through the festival's
social networking site even before they arrive in Austin.

A Conference for Every Taste (and Budget)

If SXSW Interactive doesn't inspire you to book a flight, there are plenty of
other options that might. Whatever your passion -- politics, the environment,
wine, design, anime -- chances are there's a conference and a city that will
intrigue you. Some, though, are more costly and difficult to attend than others,
two reasons they have been called elitist.

The most exclusive and high profile conferences, like Aspen Ideas Festival where
past speakers have included Barbra Streisand; Ehud Barak, a former Israeli prime
minister; and Amy Chua, the author of ''Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother,'' tend
to cost about the same as a cruise: $1,500 to $3,000. (Early registration for
SXSW Interactive this year was $695 -- much less than other major conferences.)
Tickets sell out fast. And don't even think about reserving a hotel room at the
last minute.

At the top of the conference spectrum, otherwise known as the
You're-Never-Ever-Going category, is the World Economic Forum's annual meeting
in Davos, Switzerland. To attend, you must be a member of the forum and even
then the base price of admission (membership plus the entrance fee) is upward of
$70,000, as Andrew Ross Sorkin reported in an article a couple of years ago.

TED, which is $7,500 a person, might seem affordable by comparison, though you
cannot simply buy your way in. Would-be attendees must be invited or submit an
application with answers to questions like ''If a friend were to describe your
accomplishments in up to three sentences, what would he or she say?'' and ''Can
you share a memorable anecdote from your life that will give us a further sense
of what makes you tick?'' Applicants must also provide references.

There are ways, though, to visit cities around the world and to get the flavor
of pricier conferences without emptying your bank account. TED, for instance,
has spawned TEDx, conferences organized by local communities in Africa, Asia,
Australia and the Americas that are free or have a nominal charge (a map and
list of events is at Ted.com/tedx/events). And some invitation-only conferences
-- like the DLD (Digital-Life-Design) conference about digitization, science and
culture in Munich -- allow people to apply for a spot.

Many conferences don't require invitations, though. And while they may not be as
slick as those that do, they're intimate, diverse and are often held in the same
cities as mainstream forums.

Take BIL -- the everyman's TED. It's been referred to as an ''unconference''
(it's more like a gathering of interesting people than a program of speakers),
and as its organizers explain on the Web site, it's a ''play off of the formal
and elite approach that TED employed to share ideas.'' BIL, which like TED took
place in Long Beach, Calif., this year, doesn't technically stand for anything,
though it's a wink at ''Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure.'' Tickets were $20 for
those registered early.

Niche conferences are another option. One of the largest, New York Comic Con, is
in a major tourist destination: Manhattan. The city can be intimidating for
first-timers, but if you want to come, and come solo, a conference can be a good
anchor. Why rub elbows with venture capitalists when you can hang out with the
illustrators of Wonder Woman and Batman (Oct. 10 through 13; $85 for a
four-days)? Last year, more than 116,000 people attended.

If comics, games, science fiction and fantasy are your bailiwick but you prefer
sand and sun to bagels and Broadway, you might want to visit the West Coast for
Comic-Con International: San Diego and Comikaze Expo in Los Angeles, the
official convention of Stan Lee, comic book writer and a former Marvel Comics
executive.

Longing for Paris or London? Consider LeWeb, one of the largest Internet and
innovation conferences in Europe, taking place in London on June 5 and 6 (£990
until April 17; £1,590 thereafter, about $1,470 and $2,360 at $1.48 to the
pound) and in Paris Dec. 10 through 12 (2,390 euros, about $2,998 at $1.24 to
the euro). Past speakers have included Sean Parker, the first president of
Facebook and a founder of Napster and Plaxo; Eric Schmidt, the executive
chairman of Google; and Kevin Systrom, the chief executive of Instagram. Last
year, there were some 5,000 people from more than 80 countries at the London and
Paris sessions combined. (For an idea of what LeWeb is like, you can check out
video footage from last year's conferences at Paris12.leweb.co.)

Anywhere you attend a conference as a solo traveler you're bound to discover a
city in ways you might not have expected, and to meet some wild, interesting
people while you're at it. That is, if you follow this advice: look up from your
cellphone.

''Nobody's fooled,'' said Ms. Nox, the dating coach. ''We all know you're not
getting an important work e-mail. It looks more confident to stand there and be
open to an interaction. It's amazing how receptive people are to meeting someone
new.''

CONFERENCE CALLS

There's no shortage of compelling cities and conferences, but how to find the
best ones for you? Word of mouth is invaluable. And if you register for one
conference, your fellow attendees will be able to recommend others in the same
vein. On the Web, you can browse Lanyrd.com, which is essentially a social
networking site that enables users to discover conferences (by topic or date)
and to see which ones their friends plan to attend. Another site,
Eventbrite.com, is typically used to register for or to sell tickets to events,
but it can also be used to search for conferences (just click on the ''find
events'' link and then search for ''conference'').

It's impossible to provide a complete list here, but to help you get started,
here's a sampling of conferences large and small, near and far, not discussed in
depth in the article.

Do Lectures Have a great idea that you want to turn into a business? This
conference in Fforest, West Wales, aims to help participants do just that with
talks from entrepreneurs during the day and camping under the stars at night.
Information: dolectures.com/the-event.

EG (Entertainment Gathering) This media, technology, entertainment and education
confab in Monterey, Calif. is limited to 300 people and this year will include
speakers with job titles like cyber illusionist, wood carver, geneticist and
wildlife photographer. Information: the-eg.com.

Gel (Good Experience Live) Organized by Creative Good, a consulting firm
specializing in customer experience, this New York gathering is for those
striving to create good experiences in ''tech, business, and the world.''
Information: gelconference.com.

National Conference on LGBT Equality: Creating Change An annual meeting of
activists and leaders that includes workshops, film screenings and caucuses
(next year's conference will be in Houston). Information: creatingchange.org.

99U Conference Like the popular Web site with which it's associated (99U.com),
this New York conference focuses on how to go from an idea to the execution of
an idea with classes and talks by authors and entrepreneurs like Seth Godin, and
designers like Stefan Sagmeister, who has worked with clients as varied as
Rolling Stones and the Guggenheim Museum. Information: 99u.com/conference.

The Story A one-day conference in London about (what else?) the art of
storytelling. Information: thestory.org.uk.

WebVisions Taking place a few times a year in different cities -- Portland, New
York, Barcelona, Chicago -- explores the future of Web and mobile design and
content creation. Information: webvisionsevent.com.

Wisdom 2.0 San Francisco is a fitting place for this conference about learning
how to be connected through technology yet in ways that make us healthy,
effective at work and useful to the wider world. Information: wisdom2summit.com.

Follow Stephanie Rosenbloom on Twitter @stephronyt.

URL:
http://travel.nytimes.com/2013/04/07/travel/professional-conferences-double-as-v
acation-venues.html

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Austin, Tex., the SXSW Interactive festival, with the
emphasis on interactive. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN SKLAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (TR1)
Clockwise from top left: New York Comic Con
TEDx, La Quinta, Calif
another New York Comic Con attendee
Christine Lagarde and Mario Monti at the World Economic Forum meeting in Davos,
Switzerland
TED will meet in Vancouver, British Columbia, next year
lounging at a TED conference in Long Beach, Calif.
makeup time at an SXSW party
Joey Hebo performs in Austin during the South by Southwest music festival
a TED welcome party in Long Beach
Davos at night. Center: the Long Beach TED welcome party. (FRED R. CONRAD/THE
NEW YORK TIMES
KRIS KRÜG
JOHANNES EISELE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
JOE McNALLY/GETTY IMAGES
MICHAEL BRANDS
BEN SKLAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ERICH SCHLEGEL/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
 RYAN LASH) (TR6-TR7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 8, 2013 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Israel Says It Repelled Most Attacks on Its Web Sites by Pro-Palestinian Hackers

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 675 words


JERUSALEM -- A loose international coalition of pro-Palestinian computer hackers
threatened to carry out what it called ''a massive cyberassault'' against Israel
on Sunday, but the campaign created mostly minor disruptions, and the Israeli
government said that as of midday its Web sites were still accessible to the
public.

Numerous sites, including some hosted by the government, were briefly closed
down or defaced starting on Saturday evening, and some data was stolen,
according to Israeli cyberexperts. On Sunday afternoon, the Ministry of Finance
said in a statement that government sites were ''under DDoS attack,'' referring
to Distributed Denial of Service, a method used by hackers to make sites
unavailable, and that Israeli computer experts were working to repel the attacks
in cooperation with Internet service providers.

The statement added that the Foreign Affairs Ministry's Web site was
inaccessible ''for a few seconds before returning to normal operations'' and
that generally ''a slowdown or unavailability of service could be expected from
time to time.''

The Web site of Yad Vashem, Israel's official Holocaust memorial, was also hit
by a cyberattack as Israel was preparing to mark its annual Holocaust
Remembrance Day.

Guy Mizrahi of Cyberia, an Israeli cybersecurity firm, said in an interview that
the damage was not significant and that most of the attacks were ''childish.''

The shadowy network of hackers who identified themselves as belonging to the
Anonymous collective, along with various allied groups, announced last week that
''elite cybersquadrons from around the world'' had decided to unite to ''disrupt
and erase Israel from cyberspace.'' Among other things, they blamed Israel for
violating the November cease-fire in Gaza by carrying out airstrikes, a
reference to the assaults on Tuesday on two open areas in northern Gaza that
caused no damage or casualties. Israel said the strikes were in response to a
renewal of rocket fire into southern Israel.

Israel has been working to protect itself from cyberattacks, establishing a
National Cyber Bureau in early 2012 to coordinate computer security efforts.

Isaac Ben Israel of the National Cyber Bureau told Israel Radio on Sunday that
Israel ''has always been more prepared than other places in the world.''

''When we talk about cyberwar we are talking about attacks on water,
electricity, infrastructure, but Anonymous does not have that kind of ability,''
he said. ''The fact that we don't have any big damage is not because there are
no attacks. We see the attacks, and they are blocked.''

Pro-Israeli hackers, some working under the name Israeli Elite Force, said they
had retaliated by posting pro-Israeli messages on Web sites in the Muslim world.

The pro-Palestinian hackers called their campaign Operation Israel. Activists
logged and tracked their progress through a Twitter account, #OpIsrael.

But some of the sites in Israel that the hackers had claimed to have brought
down -- like the ones hosted by Coca-Cola, the prime minister's office and
Invest in Israel, an initiative of the Industry, Trade and Labor Ministry,
appeared to be working on Sunday.

The pro-Palestinian hackers seemed to have had more success in attacking small
businesses and individual Facebook pages. At midday they announced on Twitter
that they had defaced the Web site of an Israeli hair salon, Peter Hair, in
Ramat Hasharon, near Tel Aviv.

The salon site's home page showed a person with a masked face, an image
associated with Anonymous, holding a sign saying ''Indonesian Security Down #OP
ISRAHELL.'' The rest of the screen was filled with a message to the government,
accusing Israel of having ''wronged humanity.'' The hackers signed off with the
message, ''We are Muslims, Soldier of Allah.''

Reached by telephone on Sunday evening, the owner of the salon, Peter Imseis,
said he had not been aware that the site had been hacked and added that it had
not affected his business. Asked why he thought the salon had become a target,
he said, ''I don't have a clue. It's very strange.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/04/08/world/middleeast/pro-palestinian-hackers-attac
k-israeli-sites.html

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 12, 2013 Friday
                        The International Herald Tribune

Cybersecurity: A View From the Front

BYLINE: By TOOMAS HENDRIK ILVES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg.

LENGTH: 1268 words


HELSINKI -- The changes in the digital world today represent a dramatically
sped-up version of the changes the world underwent in a century of
industrialization. It is a paradigm transformation of our world: Notions of a
nation's size, wealth, power, military might, population and G.D.P. mean
something altogether different from what they meant a generation ago.

These relations are in constant flux, and old assumptions no longer hold. Today,
a small, poor East European country can be a world leader in e-governance and
cybersecurity.

In February, the United Nations praised Estonia's e-Annual Report system, by
which entrepreneurs can submit annual reports electronically, as the ''best of
the best'' e-Government application of the past decade. Last autumn, Freedom
House ranked Estonia first in Internet freedom for the third year in a row (the
United States and Germany were second and third).

At the same time, Estonia is also remembered as the first publicly known target
of politically motivated cyberattacks in April 2007, which inundated the Web
sites of Parliament, banks, ministries, television stations and other
organizations.

Disruptive as the attacks were, they were by today's standards primitive,
consisting of ''distributed denial of service'' attacks (DDoS), which
essentially overload servers with signals from hijacked, hacker-controlled PCs.
Six years later, as computing power and IT dependency have increased hugely,
cyberattacks are far more sophisticated and our vulnerabilities are far greater.

Yet those attacks were a blessing -- Estonia took cybersecurity seriously
earlier than most. In 2008, NATO opened its Cooperative Cyber Defense Center of
Excellence, to enhance NATO's cyberdefense capability, in Tallinn.

Cybersecurity needs to be taken seriously by everyone. We continue to think of
cyberthreats in military or classical warfare terms, when in fact cyber can
simply render the military paradigm irrelevant. The whole information and
communication technologies (ICT) infrastructure must be regarded as an
''ecosystem'' in which everything is interconnected. It functions as a whole; it
must be defended as a whole.

Today, almost everything we do depends on a digitized system of one kind or
another. Our critical infrastructure -- our electrical, water or energy
production systems and traffic management -- essentially interacts with, and
cannot be separated from, our critical information infrastructure -- private
Internet providers, lines of telecommunications and the Supervisory Control and
Data Acquisition (Scada) systems that run everything from nuclear power plants
to delivery of milk to our supermarkets.

Understanding that cybersecurity means defending the entirety of our societies,
we need to re-examine many assumptions of security. In cyberwarfare, it is much
harder to identify the attacker, and therefore to know how to retaliate.

In a modern digitalized world it is possible to paralyze a country without
attacking its defense forces: The country can be ruined by simply bringing its
Scada systems to a halt. To impoverish a country one can erase its banking
records. The most sophisticated military technology can be rendered irrelevant.
In cyberspace, no country is an island.

This requires rethinking some of our core philosophical notions of modern
society: the relations between the public and private spheres, between privacy
and identity.

At a time when the greatest threats to our privacy and the security of our data
come from criminal hackers and foreign countries (often working together), we
remain fixed on the idea that Big Brother, our own government, is the danger.

This may have been true in the past, when only national governments had the
ability to monitor citizens. Today, as we know, a single hacker can access the
most intimate details of your digital and nondigital life, your finances and
your correspondence.

This is a clear case of market failure. A bank that builds identity theft and
fraud into the cost of doing business is an example of market failure. A power
company that treats a cyber-induced power outage as an act of God, no different
from a tornado or earthquake, demonstrates market failure.

If the private sector is unwilling to take the necessary steps to guarantee the
integrity of its online activities, the government must step in to fulfill its
most fundamental task -- to ensure the security of its citizens; that is, to
provide them with a secure identity.

Identity lies at the core of security online. Virtually all breaches of computer
security involve a fake identity, be it stealing a credit card number or
accessing the internal documents of the European Commission. A three-digit
security code on the back of a credit card does not provide you with a secure
identity, nor does an ordinary computer password. The fundamental question is
whether you can be sure the person you interact with online is who he claims he
is.

The key to all online security is a secure online identification system. But a
nebulous fear of an imagined Big Brother prevents citizens in many places from
adopting a smart-chip-based access key that would afford them secure online
transactions.

In Estonia, the government has become the guarantor of secure transactions
online, while identity is authenticated by a body independent of the government.
We use a two-factor identification system in which the ID is protected by both a
chip and a password. A binary key or public key infrastructure guarantees
securely encrypted transfer of information. Thus far, our system has proved
secure. Even during the DDoS attacks of 2007, our digital government system
remained online and intact.

Precisely because we offer a verifiable and reliable identification system,
Estonia has gone further than any other country in investing in digitizing the
basic processes of society. A quarter of the electorate votes online; 95 percent
of tax returns are done online, and 95 percent of prescriptions are filled
online.

By the end of 2012, Estonians gave more than a hundred million digital legal
signatures. Citizens, as legal owners of their own data, have access to their
digital medical and dental records. And we have more and more e-services
available every year.

In the future, we hope to connect our digital services and make them
interoperable with our neighbors in Northern Europe. In the longer run, we're
looking toward uniting systems in all of Europe. Ultimately, government data
will move across borders as freely as e-mail and Facebook and follow the
international flows of commerce and trade.

The job of cybersecurity is to enable a globalized economy based on the free
movement of people, goods, services, capital and ideas. This can only be
accomplished if identities are secure.

Undoubtedly the most effective means by which our societies could be safeguarded
from cyberattacks would be to roll back the clock -- to go back to the pen,
typewriter, paper and mechanical switch. We should give up on mobile phones,
iPads, online banking, social media, Google searches -- everything we have
become accustomed to in the modern world. But that won't happen.

Cybersecurity is not just a matter of blocking bad things a cyberattack can do;
it is protecting all the good things that cyberinsecurity can prevent us from
doing. Genuine cybersecurity should not be seen as an additional cost, but as an
enabler, guarding our entire digital way of life.

Toomas Hendrik Ilves is the president of Estonia. He is speaking Friday at the
Forum for New Diplomacy hosted in Paris by the International Herald Tribune and
the Académie Diplomatique Internationale.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/04/12/opinion/global/cybersecurity-a-view-from-the-f
ront.html

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                             April 15, 2013 Monday

This Week in Small Business: Free Lunch?

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1744 words



HIGHLIGHT: A declining deficit? A global recession? Why some small businesses
are hungry to hire. Do you expect to buy PCs this year?


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.

The Politics: A Shrinking Deficit

The president announces a $3.7 trillion budget with revenue-raising favorites
and a tax credit for small businesses. Here is everything a small-business owner
needs to know about the president's budget, and this is a quick guide to all of
the budget proposals. Bill McBride says the deficit is shrinking rapidly. The
International Monetary Fund says monetary easing is producing little risk of
high inflation, and the Federal Reserve remains divided over when to end the
stimulus. The Pentagon looks to cut 40,000 to 50,000 civilian jobs over the next
five years, and Saturday postal deliveries will continue.

The Economy: Global Recession?


Small-business confidence retreated last month, and Dave Gonigam offers one
reason small-business owners are bummed out. But some small businesses are
hungry to hire. Retail sales fell unexpectedly in March, but financial stress
has returned to mid-2007 levels according to three Federal Reserve measures.
Lumber prices are near a housing bubble high, and land becomes more expensive.
Job openings increased in February, and machine tool orders show signs of
strength. But wholesale sales and inventories had a very bad February, and
restaurant operators' confidence in the economy is tenuous. The White House is
projecting slow economic gains, and the World Trade Organization cuts its
forecast. John P. Hussman expects the American economy to "join a global
recession that is already in progress in much of the developed world."

People: Free Lunch?

Tech companies that offer free lunches are drawing attention from the Internal
Revenue Service. This is why Margaret Thatcher inspired so many women. John
Baldoni reports on why your least engaged employees might be your top
performers: "It is not usual for good performers to feel lost in the system."
Beware of these traps when hiring for your small business. Here's how to use a
virtual assistant. If you've got a problem, you can now hire an "hourly nerd."
Some 83 percent of American workers say they feel stressed by their jobs, up
from 73 percent a year ago. A dog-friendly environment is just one of the perks
your small business can afford, according to Suzanne Lucas. And here is why this
guy's son is crying.

Management: Jay-Z Sells

A study finds that businesses owned by women have increased 59 percent since
1997. Jim Jacques says that one of the five things that set real entrepreneurs
apart is "they don't try to be someone else." Jay-Z will sell his shares in the
Brooklyn Nets. Alison Bradford explains why you need a compelling vision.
Gregory Ciotti believes "external end-goal restriction" is a dangerous
creativity killer. Consumerist names its worst company of the year. Brett and
Kate McKay say that to succeed in work and life you need to be Mr. T. The firing
of J.C. Penney's chief executive teaches a few lessons.

Start-Up: Ridiculous Start-Ups

Here are some ridiculous start-up ideas (that became successful). A seminar in
Chicago this week will help you find investors for your start-up. A disabled
veteran starts a barbecue-sauce business while another start-up can help you
manage the death of a loved one. Gabrielle Karol asks whether location matters
for a start-up. Two entrepreneurs start an "urban ventures" accelerator program
that empowers entrepreneurs to solve urban problems. Andrew Chen wonders why we
are so bad at predicting start-up success: "Be careful with what you think you
know versus what you don't. I've found that my area of expertise where I can
make good decisions is actually pretty narrow."

Finance: Backing Away From Social

It turns out that for many banks, the Small Business Lending Fund was nothing
more than a way to get out of the Troubled Asset Relief Program. Crowdfunding's
tally amounted to $2.6 billion in 2012 - with projects like this one, which is
seeking funds to film big rodents. Lending to franchises has reached the highest
level since the recession. Venture capitalists are backing away from social
businesses, and Chicago's venture capital financing plunges 42.6 percent. A
global technology provider serving the financial services industry releases a
consulting initiative to help banks improve the profitability and efficiency of
commercial and small-business lending.

Cash Flow: Canceling PayPal

Heather Allard suggests three steps to build a business budget that works.
Robert X. Cringely struggles to cancel his PayPal account. A bunch of celebrity
entrepreneurs auction off their time. Ivan Widjaya lays out the process of
protecting a trademark. Here are six legal steps to take when starting a
business.

Sales: What's Changed?

This infographic shows how the sales profession has changed since the "Mad Men"
era. Tom Searcy has thoughts on what your business can learn from the N.C.A.A.
tournament. Bob Phibbs says you can prepare your store to attract customers and
keep them coming back. Peter Boritz outlines the best steps for "on-boarding
customers." Andrea Johnson suggests six steps to drive more sales through your
pipeline.

Marketing: Instagram Tactics

Here are five inexpensive ways to advertise your home-based business. Lyve
Alexis Pleshette discusses the advantages and disadvantages of various
advertising mediums. Content marketing has become a $44 billion industry. Donna
Amos believes there are four reasonsyour business should be on Instagram, and
here are five ways to be creative with Instagram marketing. Most small-business
owners do their own marketing. Karen Talavera explains how to use e-mail
marketing, and here are a few tips to engage customers on Facebook. Michael
Marshall says the key to search engine optimization is to "know your target."
This is how to step up a social media nurturing strategy, and here are three
ways to measure the success of a Google AdWords campaign. David Siteman Garland
explains how he got his first 100 fans. Here are 10 of the best LinkedIn
features for your business. Google introduces a beta test allowing creators to
connect Google Plus pages to YouTube channels.

Taxes: Suffocating

President Obama's budget proposal would cap tax-advantaged savings. The I.R.S.
plans to expend 18 percent less effort auditing businesses with assets of $10
million or more. A poll of small-business owners reveals strong bipartisan
opposition to corporate tax loopholes. Here's what you need to know about the
Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act. John Goodman has advice for small
businesses that do not know how to handle the Affordable Care Act's "suffocating
cost," while Wendell Potter says small businesses that want a tax break should
check out the A.C.A. Here are 10 well-known facts that aren't true.

Around the Country: Happy Record Store Day!

A California business owner fights back after a string of burglaries. Google
Fiber is coming to Austin. Some doctors are being driven into bankruptcy. Virgin
America is called America's best airline (United the worst). Grants for $200,000
are available to help expand Oregon manufacturing, and a start-up plans to add
hundreds of jobs in Portland. A May 7 event in Boston will help app developers
meet employers. New York's City Council passes a package of bills to help small
businesses. The New York Enterprise Report will explain how and why to apply for
small-business awards in a webinar. Construction is booming in Texas, but many
workers pay dearly. Saturday is Record Store Day.

Around the World: The Nutella Is Missing

America's most profitable export is cash. London pumps $33 million into its
start-up scene. Five tons of Nutella are stolen in Germany. Neil Irwin explains
why Japan is the most interesting story in global economics. Britain is trying
to escape a triple-dip recession. China's inflation rate drops and most big
Chinese companies get some kind of state subsidy. Elliott Auckland explains
where Russia is today. This is how Manchester United may have hurt a small
business. These are the most expensive places in the world for a cheap date.

Ideas: Virtual Currency

The 2014 Honda Odyssey has a built-in vacuum. You can now make 3-D printed candy
in a customer's image, but forget about 3-D because 4-D printing is the new
fabrication frontier. Bloomingdale's installs body scanners to help customers
find jeans that fit. A student-built car gets 3,587 miles per gallon. A bar in
New York accepts Bitcoins, and here are 10 other real things you can buy with
virtual currency (assuming you survive the price fluctuations). Venture firms
are eyeing opportunities with Google Glass. A kid goes swimming in the hallway
of his school.

Technology: PC Shipments Fall

A hacker demonstrates how he could hijack a plane with an Android app. Drew
Hendricks says these are the three signs it is time to get a dedicated server.
Here are six ways to cope with hotel Wi-Fi. Paul Mah explains why Office 365
makes sense for small businesses. These are the best 802.11ac wireless routers.
A new log-in relies on brain signals. PC shipments post their biggest quarterly
decline recorded. Making phone calls is not the  No. 1 smartphone activity, and
Becky Worley lists five tech rip-offs, including smartphone insurance.

Tweet of the Week

@juliussharpe - Amazing how in the last 30 years, the United States has
completely transitioned from an industrial powerhouse to a brunch-based economy.

The Week's Best Quote

Edward Behr explains the benefits of a slow life: "You're living a slow life
when you gather seashells along the shore, feed a campfire, visit a nearly empty
museum on a weekday morning, talk late into the night, read an ink-on-paper book
cover-to-cover without stopping to do much else, and, I would say, if you take
the time to be bored. Part of being civilized is not just being slow but
occasionally coming to a stop, establishing a point of reference for the moment
when you start moving again. When you stop you aren't really stopping, of
course, because that's often when good ideas rise to the surface."

This Week's Question: Do you expect to buy PCs this year?

Gene Marks owns the  Marks Group , a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that
helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on
Twitter.


     ·    This Week in Small Business: Not Again!
     ·    This Week in Small Business: Free Furniture!
     ·    This Week in Small Business: Does Yelp Help?
     ·    This Week In Small Business: Surviving Shark Tank
     ·    This Week in Small Business: The Next Big Battle


LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             April 16, 2013 Tuesday

Civil Liberties Fears Doom House Cybersecurity Bill

BYLINE: SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 398 words



HIGHLIGHT: The White House again threatens to veto a bill on sharing cyber
threat information, in a nod to civil liberties groups that worry about
government surveillance over the Internet use of American citizens.


The White House on Tuesday threatened to veto a House bill that would allow
private companies to share information about computer security threats with
government agencies, signaling once again how difficult it is to balance civil
liberties and security interests in the digital era.

A similar bill, the Cyberintelligence Sharing and Protection Act, known as
Cispa, passed the Republican-controlled House of Representatives last year. It,
too, faced a veto threat from the Obama administration, along with outcry from
civil liberties groups that feared that the government would use it to snoop on
private citizens. This year, sponsors of the bill, House Intelligence Committee
chairman Mike Rogers, a Republican from Michigan, and C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger,
a Democrat from Maryland, tweaked the language in a bid to satisfy critics. The
House is expected to vote on the bill this week.

A National Security Council spokeswoman, Caitlin Hayden, on Tuesday described
those as "a good faith effort," but insufficient. Specifically, the
administration said private firms should be required to try to "remove
irrelevant personal information" when sharing cyber threat information with each
other or with government agencies. "Citizens have a right to know that
corporations will be held accountable - and not granted immunity - for failing
to safeguard personal information adequately," the White House said in a
statement.

Some technology industry groups, most recently TechNet, have backed the bill,
while civil liberties advocates rallied against it. The Center for Democracy and
Technology said it could cede too much control to a military intelligence
agency, while the American Civil Liberties Unionorganized a petition drive
warning that the law could allow government surveillance over e-mail
communications and location data of ordinary Internet users.

The administration passed an executive order last February compelling government
agencies to tell private firms about cyber risks, but not vice-versa. The
president, in his State of the Union address, explicitly cited the need to
protect both "national security" and "privacy."


     ·    The President Revives an Old Debate About Privacy
     ·    Security Meeting Focuses on the Basics
     ·    Internet Wiretapping Proposal Met With Silence
     ·    AT&T Is Said to Have Exposed iPad Owners' E-Mail Addresses
     ·    Daily Report: 'The Attacks Have Changed From Espionage to Destruction'


LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                             April 16, 2013 Tuesday

Cyberwar: How Digital Threats Are Redefining National Security

BYLINE: TOM MARSHALL

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2245 words



HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students learn about the scope of recent cyberattacks
and what is being done to counter such threats. Then they consider the broader
practical and ethical consequences of preparing for cyberwar.


 Overview | Can a nation's military or economic institutions be toppled with a
few anonymous keystrokes? That's the fear being voiced by United States
government officials and corporations, who have drastically ramped up their
preparations in recent months to defend against attacks on computer networks.

In the activities that follow, students learn about the scope of recent attacks
and what is being done to counter such threats. Then they consider the broader
practical and ethical consequences of preparing for cyberwar.

Materials | Markers and Post-it notes or index cards with tape for groups of
four or five students; a computer with an Internet connection and a projector to
display articles and video; computers with an Internet connection for individual
students or groups to use online resources; copies of articles or primary
documents as needed.

Warm-Up | Tell students:

Today we are going to look at a type of conflict that is brand new. Some people
call it a war, but it has nothing to do with guns and bullets, only computers.
Any guesses what I'm talking about?

Write student brainstorming on the board, focusing on terms like "cyberwar" and
"hacking."

How many of you have heard of a recent incident in the news in which someone
maliciously used computers to harm someone else? Can you think of any examples?

Record any incidents students may have heard of, like recent Internet slowdowns
or attacks on corporate Web sites.

Imagine, for a moment, if a malicious hacker or unfriendly government were able
to create a computer virus that took down the world's computer networks for a
day or even longer. What sorts of activities would suddenly become impossible?

Help students to brainstorm a comprehensive list of computer-related activities
in modern life, including not just things like shopping but essential functions
like air traffic control, banking records, power grids, weather forecasting and
satellite communications.

Over the next couple of days we are going to take a close look at how we might
protect ourselves from such attacks, while at the same time continuing to enjoy
the amazing opportunities provided by computers and the Internet. But first,
let's read a recent article that shows you just how seriously people are
treating this problem.

Related  | In "Security Leader Says U.S. Would Retaliate Against Cyberattacks,"
Mark Mazzetti and David E. Sanger write about how United States government
officials are warning that a significant attack on the nation's computer systems
could wreak havoc with basic services and the economy. Officials are preparing
to fight back against attacks that are seen as potentially more pressing than
the threat posed by global terrorist networks.

The chief of the military's newly created Cyber Command told Congress ... that
he is establishing 13 teams of programmers and computer experts who could carry
out offensive cyberattacks on foreign nations if the United States were hit with
a major attack on its own networks, the first time the Obama administration has
publicly admitted to developing such weapons for use in wartime.

"I would like to be clear that this team, this defend-the-nation team, is not a
defensive team," Gen. Keith Alexander, who runs both the National Security
Agency and the new Cyber Command, told the House Armed Services Committee. "This
is an offensive team that the Defense Department would use to defend the nation
if it were attacked in cyberspace."

Background Vocabulary: Read the entire article with your class, then answer the
questions below. You may wish to introduce students to the following words or
concepts before reading: cyberattacks, cyberspace, infrastructure, espionage,
utilities, rhetoric, propaganda.

Questions | For reading comprehension and discussion:


     ·    What is the purpose of the 13 new Cyber Command teams?
     ·    What specific attacks have already taken place in recent years, and
          who seems to be behind them, according to the United States
          government?
     ·    What sorts of specific problems might a cyberattack cause, according
          to this article?
     ·    How might defending against cyberattacks endanger ordinary citizens'
          privacy?
     ·    What did General Alexander say was the best defense against such
          attacks, and why do you think officials are also discussing offensive
          tactics?


Activity | In this activity, student groups will read additional articles on
recent cyberattacks and work together to construct a class "action-and-reaction
timeline" (PDF).

Part I: Reading a Times Article and Tracking Cyberattacks
Set up a vertical timeline on a whiteboard, with the years 2007 through 2013
arranged on the vertical (left) axis from bottom to top, and the terms "action"
and "reaction" on the horizontal (top) axis. Then divide students into mixed
ability groups of four or five and give each group a small stack of Post-it
notes or index cards with tape.

Assign one of the articles about a cyberattack that has occurred in recent years
from the list below to each group. In some cases, the article might mention more
than one attack, and in some cases it might also say what happened next - what
steps people took in reacting to the attack.


     ·    Computer Networks in South Korea Are Paralyzed in Cyberattacks
     ·    Chinese Army Unit Is Seen as Tied to Hacking Against U.S.
     ·    In Cyberattack on Saudi Firm, U.S. Sees Iran Firing Back
     ·    Bank Hacking Was the Work of Iranians, Officials Say (Note to
          students: exclude Estonia)
     ·    After Computer Siege in Estonia, War Fears Turn to Cyberspace
     ·    Cyberattacks Seem Meant to Destroy, Not Just Disrupt


Within each group, students should have different roles: a facilitator to lead
the group's discussion, a recorder to take notes on what the group discusses and
note takers who keep track of specific cyberattacks on Post-it notes or index
cards.

For each cyberattack or incident a group finds in its article, students should
fill out a note card. On the top they should write the country and approximate
date in large letters (example, "fall 2012" or "September 2012"). Below,
students should provide details describing briefly what happened. Groups should
complete as many cards as they can.

After groups finish taking notes, students should place their note cards in the
appropriate spot in the "action" column on the timeline handout (PDF), the
chalkboard or even via computer using Google Docs or other file-sharing
programs.

Part II: Group Discussion
Next, students should discuss the cyberattacks they found as a group and try to
figure out the consequences:


     ·    How did people react in response to the attacks?
     ·    Did people face any concrete problems or hardships?
     ·    Do you think they changed the mood in that country or damaged
          relations with another country?


Students should think creatively and list as many consequences as they can in
the group's notes. They should also make sure they can also locate any countries
mentioned on a world map (PDF).

Part III: Class Presentations and Analysis
In the final portion of class, ask each group to briefly present their findings
- what happened and any consequences - and locate any countries mentioned on a
world map. Teachers can jot down key points on the timeline in the "reaction"
column as they speak. After all the groups have presented, ask the class to
think once more about the cumulative impact or consequences of such attacks. How
have they changed the global climate around cybersecurity and Internet use, and
what should be done now?

Going Further: Teaching About Cyberwar

1. Is the threat real or hyped?
Last year, Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta warned of a possible "cyber-Pearl
Harbor" in which hackers or governments launched multiple, simultaneous attacks
on the United States. Are you persuaded of the severity of that threat, or do
you believe it is overstated? Read Mr. Panetta's account of the dangers, and
then read these articles that critique the notion that the United States is on
the verge of cyberwar. Write a personal response, citing evidence from articles
you have read to support your position as well as countervailing views.


     ·    Why the U.S. Is Not in a Cyber War
     ·    Hype and Fear
     ·    The Great Cyberscare
     ·    Cyberwar Hype Intended to Destroy the Open Internet


2. What are America's rules governing cyberwar?
Under the United States Constitution, only Congress can declare war, and under
the 1973 War Powers Act the president must consult with legislative leaders when
emergencies make that impossible. Does that apply to cyberwar too? Read this
article on the Obama administration's assertion of broad executive powers to
strike pre-emptively or take other steps in cyberrelated emergencies. Then
consider this response, which describes the government's position as a "power
grab." Which position do you consider more persuasive?

Write a scenario in which you describe how a cyberattack might unfold,
explaining how Congressional involvement is either possible or impractical. Then
propose a new federal law, the Cyberwar Powers Act, that spells out exactly how
the government can protect itself from cyberthreats while remaining true to its
democratic principles.

3. Did the United States set a bad example?
As early as 2006, the United States was taking active steps to use cyberwarfare
tools against Iran, and in 2011 it contemplated launching a full-scale
cyberattack against Libya. Do you believe some acts of cyberwar might be
justified in order to prevent or limit the loss of life in a real war? Or will
such acts come back to haunt the country that uses them first, leading to a
cycle of retaliation and chaos that hurts everyone? Write a proposed
international treaty governing cyberwarfare in which you spell out the
conditions, if any, under which such tactics are justified.

4. Are the United States and China cyberrivals?
In February, a United States company and government officials implicated units
of the Chinese Army in a broad range of cyberattacks, including some against The
New York Times. How has the United States government responded, and has it acted
forcefully enough? Read the articles below, listing the steps that have been
taken to eliminate the problem. Then explain why United States officials are
treading carefully and might be reluctant to go too far or start an overt
cyberwar with China.


     ·    In Cyberspace, New Cold War
     ·    U.S. Demands China Block Cyberattacks and Agree to Rules


5. What is the best response to cyberthreats: offense, defense or clever
thinking?
Imagine that President Obama has convened an emergency committee of
representatives from the military, Internet businesses, other businesses like
banks and power companies that rely on the Internet, bloggers devoted to
maintaining Internet freedom and ordinary citizens. Assign students to take on
one of these roles and, using the sources below or others from the archives of
The New York Times, argue for the best long-term strategy for protecting the
United States and other nations from cyberattack. Hold a formal debate with
student presentations and a final class vote on the best strategy.


     ·    Room for Debate: What is an Act of Cyberwar?
     ·    Cybersecurity: A View from the Front
     ·    Corporate Espionage, American Style
     ·    Killing the Computer to Save It


6. What can the private companies or individuals do?
Often it is private companies involved in the Internet business that notice and
act on problems first. Now governments in both the United States and United
Kingdom are taking active steps to increase cooperation with private industry.
Do you think government, private companies and individuals would cooperate or
come into conflict in the event of cyberwar? Make a prediction now, citing
examples to support your view. Then track continuing coverage in the coming
weeks, designing a poster that shows how the relationship between government and
the private sector veers between conflict and cooperation on this issue.

Common Core ELA Anchor Standards, 6-12

Reading

1. Read closely to determine what the text says explicitly and to make logical
inferences from it; cite specific textual evidence when writing or speaking to
support conclusions drawn from the text.
2. Determine central ideas or themes of a text and analyze their development;
summarize the key supporting details and ideas.
8. Delineate and evaluate the argument and specific claims in a text, including
the validity of the reasoning as well as the relevance and sufficiency of the
evidence.

Writing

1. Write arguments to support claims in an analysis of substantive topics or
texts, using valid reasoning and relevant and sufficient evidence.
2. Write informative/explanatory texts to examine and convey complex ideas and
information clearly and accurately through the effective selection, organization
and analysis of content.
8. Gather relevant information from multiple print and digital sources, assess
the credibility and accuracy of each source, and integrate the information while
avoiding plagiarism.

Speaking and Listening

1. Prepare for and participate effectively in a range of conversations and
collaborations with diverse partners, building on others' ideas and expressing
their own clearly and persuasively.

McREL Standards

World History
44. Understands the search for community, stability and peace in an
interdependent world.
45. Understands major global trends since World War II.
46. Understands long-term changes and recurring patterns in world history.


     ·    Hacking Campaign, Seen as Linked to China's Army, Targets U.S.
          Industry and Government
     ·    Calling All High School Hackers
     ·    Google vs. China: Considering Threats to Internet Freedom


LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 19, 2013 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 2997 words


Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English
subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases: nytimes.com/movies.

'Admission' (PG-13, 1:47) Tina Fey and Paul Rudd are their usual likable comic
selves, but the movie, directed by Paul Weitz, can't settle on a subject or a
tone. A potentially sharp satire of the college rat-race is smothered in a busy,
unconvincing romance. (A. O. Scott)

'American Meat' (No rating, 1:25) Graham Meriwether's plainly presented
documentary argues for more healthful methods in meat farming, but it's still an
advocacy film better suited for a class than for a cinema. (Nicolas Rapold)

&#x2605; 'André Gregory: Before and After Dinner' (No rating, 1:48) The intimate
and far-reaching portrait of the experimental director and master raconteur
André Gregory, directed by his wife, Cindy Kleine, exerts a similar fascination
to ''My Dinner With André,'' in which he and his best friend, the actor Wallace
Shawn, exchange ideas about everything under the sun. (Stephen Holden)

&#x2605; 'The Angels' Share' (No rating, 1:41) Ken Loach's comedy about a
Glaswegian hooligan whose nose for good whisky presents a way out of the lower
depths, is not one of his best, but worth watching nonetheless. (Holden)

&#x2605; 'The Call' (R, 1:34) Brad Anderson directs this effectively creepy
thriller -- a solid, B-movie-style exploitation flick -- about a 911 operator
(Halle Berry) and the young miss in peril (Abigail Breslin) who calls for help
from the inside the trunk of a car. (Manohla Dargis)

'The Company You Keep' (R, 2:05) This earnest, well-intentioned movie with a
blue-ribbon cast, directed by Robert Redford, has its moments. But it also
elicits frustration that the story had to be packaged as a conventional, not
very suspenseful fugitive thriller with a bogus Hollywood ending. (Holden)

'The Croods' (PG, 1:36) This animated film about a prehistoric family has a
wearyingly familiar core dynamic -- restless teenager, overprotective father --
but a lavish look and an appealing female lead (thanks to the voice-over work of
Emma Stone). It is at its most amusing when riffing on how cave dwellers might
have reacted to new phenomena, like fire and shoes. (Neil Genzlinger)

&#x2605; 'Disconnect' (R, 1:55) The movie's separate but converging stories
about cyber mischief deal with bullying, underage pornography and identity
theft. They make for an alarming vision of the perils in the age of Facebook,
Twitter and webcam chats. (Holden)

'Evil Dead' (R, 1:31) Directed with competency though not nearly enough humor by
Fede Alvarez, this remake of Sam Raimi's 1981 horror film about a cabin of cult
curiosities, doesn't have the original's wooden performances, puffy clothes and
hairdos or its amusingly crude special effects, but it sure does share its blood
lust. Let it bleed, indeed. (Dargis)

'42' (PG-13, 2:08) The inspiring story of Jackie Robinson (Chadwick Boseman),
recruited by Branch Rickey (Harrison Ford) to integrate professional baseball,
is told simply and effectively by Brian Helgeland, who wrote and directed. The
movie is earnest and a little stiff, but it paints an emotionally accessible
picture of the pervasive racism that Robinson faced, and the loneliness of his
struggle with it. (Scott)

'From Up on Poppy Hill' (PG, 1:31) This charming animated feature from Ghibli
Studios takes a nostalgic look back at Yokohama in 1963, when two teenagers
meet, fall in love, and discover that they share family secrets dating back to
the war. (Scott)

&#x2605; 'The Gatekeepers' (PG-13, 1:37) Not recommended for anyone clinging to
optimism about the Middle East, this documentary, consisting of interviews with
six former heads of Shin Bet, the Israeli security agency, is a devastating and
informative anatomy of politics, terrorism and the post-1967 collisions between
Zionism and Palestinian nationalism. Recommended for anyone who can handle the
truth. (Scott)

'G.I. Joe: Retaliation' (PG-13, 1:50) With a sequel to a movie about a Hasbro
toy, you can kind of guess what you're getting: a lot of noise with occasional
plot mixed in. Only a few G.I. Joes survive after a devastating attack ordered
against them by the president, who is behaving as if his body has been taken
over by a malevolent impostor, which it has. Dwayne Johnson plays Roadblock, who
leads the surviving Joes on a mission to set things right. Fans of the G.I. Joe
mythology will enjoy seeing how some new additions, like Firefly and Lady Jaye,
are brought to life. (Genzlinger)

'Gimme the Loot' (No rating, 1:25) Two young graffiti artists chasing a dream.
This debut feature from Adam Leon is a scruffy, salty tribute to New York City
and the creative spirit. (Scott)

'Ginger & Rosa' (PG-13, 1:30) Sally Potter surveys the somewhat familiar
landscape of early-'60s coming-of-age with lyricism and ferocity. Ginger (Elle
Fanning) and Rosa (Alice Englert), teenagers who have been friends since birth,
grapple with nuclear anxiety, sexual curiosity, and the enigmas and
disappointments of the older generation. Ms. Potter's sense of the cultural
moment and the social milieu (bohemian London) is acute, as is her sensitivity
to the vicissitudes of female friendship. The story at times swings wildly
toward melodrama, but the performances of the two young leads -- Ms. Fanning's
in particular -- are strong and precise. (Scott)

'The Host' (PG-13, 2:05) The director Andrew Niccol (''Gattaca'') can't do much
to enliven this dull, derivative story, which he adapted from a Stephenie Meyer
best seller. A combination of unoriginal science-fiction themes, young-adult
pandering and bottom-line calculation, the movie has one virtue, a fine Saoirse
Ronan, who plays a rebel fighting an alien invasion. (Dargis)

'Jack the Giant Slayer' (PG-13, 1:55) The makers of this painlessly diverting
movie starring Nicholas Hoult embellish the familiar bedtime story with 3-D and
other effects, noisy battles and an occasional wink at the material. (Dargis)

'Koch' (No rating, 1:34) Neil Barsky's portrait of Edward I. Koch, the
three-term New York mayor (who died on Feb. 1, the day the movie opened), is
affectionate but not uncritical. The film moves back and forth between a
condensed history of Mr. Koch's time in office and visits with him in the fall
of 2010, as he campaigns for various candidates, defends his record and revisits
old grudges. A personality this large and complicated may require more than 94
minutes, but this documentary is catnip for the nostalgic and the curious.
(Scott)

'Leviathan' (No rating, 1:27) Life on a commercial fishing trawler is rendered
with surreal, sometimes bewildering vividness in this immersive documentary by
Lucien Castaing-Taylor and Véréna Paravel. (Scott)

'Life of Pi' (PG, 2:06) In bringing Yann Martel's beloved novel to the screen,
Ang Lee has created a 3-D digital fable that is often stunning to behold. The
middle section, in which the title character and a Bengal tiger share a lifeboat
after a shipwreck, is touching and clever, but its delicacy is spoiled by a
fuzzy, cloying spiritualism that hangs over everything like a humid cloud.
(Scott)

&#x2605; 'Lore' (No rating, 1:48, in German) The title character memorably
played by Saskia Rosendahl is the abandoned 14-year-old daughter of Nazi parents
herding her younger siblings through the Bavarian woods at the end of World War
II. The movie plays like a dark fairy tale. (Holden)

&#x2605; 'No' (R, 1:58, in Spanish) In Pablo Larraín's sly, smart, fictionalized
tale about the art of the sell during a fraught period in Chilean history,
advertising isn't only an art; it's also a way of life. That's certainly true
for the young adman, René (Gael García Bernal), who signs on to a campaign to
oust Gen. Augusto Pinochet. René may be vaguely interested in selling the
country on life without Pinochet, but what reels him in is the challenge of
pitching a superior product. (Dargis)

'No Place on Earth' (No rating, 1:22) Janet Tobias's documentary retells how a
group of Ukrainian Jews survived the Nazi invasion by seeking refuge in caves
outside their village. Loosely framed by a New York caver's discussion of his
research into the site, the film mixes emotional accounts by proud members of
two families with re-enactments that are perhaps too faithfully murky. The bare
facts of the feat seize the imagination, even if Ms. Tobias's filmmaking doesn't
quite rise to the challenge. (Rapold)

'Olympus Has Fallen' (R, 1:58) The White House has been taken over by
terrorists! Who will save us? Gerard Butler! Sorry. (Scott)

'On the Road' (R; 2:04) The Brazilian director Walter Salles's film of Jack
Kerouac's ''On the Road,'' is pungent and picturesque and has a sensational jazz
soundtrack, but its lead male roles, especially that of Kerouac, are sadly
miscast. (Holden)

'Oz the Great and Powerful' (PG, 2:10) Save your money, spare yourself the
headache and watch ''The Wizard of Oz'' again instead. One day, when you will
catch a few minutes of this ''Oz'' on cable, you will shudder at its horror and
you will thank me. (Dargis)

'Paris Manhattan' (No rating, 1:17) Lighter than cat dander and just as likely
to provoke an allergic reaction, this spun-sugar concoction from Sophie
Lellouche uses a husband-hunting Parisienne (Alice Taglioni) with a Woody Allen
obsession as an excuse to pilfer words and ideas far beyond its ability to
synthesize them. (Catsoulis)

'The Place Beyond the Pines' (R, 2:20) Derek Cianfrance's film is a sprawling,
heartfelt melodrama about two men (Ryan Gosling and Bradley Cooper) whose fates
become entangled, along with those of their sons. The film does not quite
fulfill its epic ambitions, but its novelistic sense of detail and strong
performances (from Eva Mendes as well as the two male leads) are impressive.
(Scott)

&#x2605; 'Renoir' (R, 1:51, in French) Set in the wild paradise of the Cote
d'Azur, Gilles Bourdos's compassionate late-life portrait of the French
Impressionist painter and his relationships with a voluptuous 15-year-old model
and with his son Jean, injured in World War I, is a gorgeous cinematic extension
of his canvasses. (Holden)

'Room 237' (No rating, 1:42) An ode to movie love at its most delirious, Rodney
Ascher's enjoyable nonfiction movie looks at some serious film fans who take
''The Shining,'' Stanley Kubrick's 1980 masterpiece, very, very seriously.
Convinced that Kubrick wove secrets and signs into his film, these true
believers find clues about the Holocaust in elevators and messages about the
Apollo 11 Moon landing in a sweater. It will make a great double bill with ''The
Shining.'' (Dargis)

'The Sapphires' (PG-13, 1:39) This sloppy, rollicking, music-filled movie,
directed by Wayne Blair and inspired by a true story, takes a look at some
familiar '60s drama -- Vietnam, the struggle against racism -- from a fresh
angle, focusing on the travails of an all-girl, indigenous Australian singing
group. (Scott)

'Scary Movie V' (PG-13, 1:35) The ''Scary Movie'' screenwriters Pat Proft and
David Zucker (who doesn't direct this time) return, taking hit-or-miss pot shots
at the ''Paranormal Activity'' series, ''Mama,'' ''Black Swan'' and ''Rise of
the Planet of the Apes,'' with nods to others of their ilk. A capable Ashley
Tisdale (inheriting Anna Faris's scream-queen mantle), rare flashes of wit and
stunt cameos keep the proceedings only intermittently entertaining. (Andy
Webster)

&#x2605; 'Searching for Sugar Man' (PG-13, 1:26) There are several entrancing
mysteries circulating in Malik Bendjelloul's hugely appealing documentary about
fans, faith and an enigmatic Age of Aquarius musician known as Rodriguez, who
burned bright and hopeful before disappearing. Don't wait for the DVD. (Dargis)

&#x2605; 'Side Effects' (R, 1:55) This chilly, twisty thriller -- which Steven
Soderbergh has said will be his last feature, at least for a while -- changes
direction several times. A young woman suffering from depression (the spooky
Rooney Mara) does something terrible, apparently under the influence of a new
antidepressant. Her sympathetic psychiatrist (Jude Law) tries to figure out what
happened, and by the time he does the context of the crime has passed from
corporate conspiracy to everyday lust and greed. Mr. Soderbergh is a skillful
orchestrator of moods and effects, with a sharp eye for the telling details and
uncomfortable contradictions of modern life. (Scott)

&#x2605; 'Silver Linings Playbook' (R, 2:00) David O. Russell's exuberant new
comedy tracks the feverish, happy, sad, absurdly funny ups and downs of a head
case (Bradley Cooper) just as he returns to his parents' home after eight months
in a mental institution. When he meets a heartbreak beauty (Jennifer Lawrence),
he finds fresh purpose in a movie that honks for happiness. (Dargis)

&#x2605; 'Simon Killer' (No rating, 1:45) Expressed in an oblique, slow-reveal
style, Antonio Campos's vague yet mesmerizing tale of a recently dumped American
(Brady Corbet, outstanding) unraveling in Paris offers a crawling portrait of
emotional isolation and mental degradation. (Catsoulis)

&#x2605; 'Spring Breakers' (R, 1:34) In his latest, the pasticheur and cultural
vulgarian Harmony Korine, takes four beauties, including the former Disney teen
queens Selena Gomez and Vanessa Hudgens, to Florida on spring break. There, they
meet James Franco in a film that, from one angle, comes across as a savage
social commentary that skitters from one idea to another, including white faces,
black masks, celebrity, the American dream, the limits of self-interest and the
search for an authentic self. From another, it comes off as the apotheosis of
the excesses it so spectacularly displays. (Dargis)

'Starbuck' (R, 1:49, in French) This shamelessly sentimental French Canadian
comedy about a lug whose sperm donations resulted in 533 births over a two-year
period relies on the likable performance of Patrick Huard, a stocky soulful
actor who oozes an endearing bleeding-heart humanity. (Holden)

'To the Wonder' (R, 1:52) In his sixth feature, Terrence Malick explores the gap
between romantic love and its divine counterpart, using voice-over narration and
fluid montages to explore the relationship between an American engineer (Ben
Affleck) and the Ukranian woman (Olga Kurylenko) who meets him in Paris and
comes to live with him in Oklahoma. The imagery is arresting and the themes
intriguing, but ''To the Wonder'' lacks the emotional insight and spiritual
grandeur of Mr. Malick's previous film, ''The Tree of Life.'' (Scott)

'Trance' (R, 1:41) This speed-freaky neo-noir from the British director Danny
Boyle hinges on an art heist that -- with a lot of literal smoke and metaphoric
mirrors -- leads to twists, turns and an old-fashioned story that he has
retrofitted with his turbocharged style. The super-fine cast includes James
McAvoy, Vincent Cassel and Rosario Dawson. (Dargis)

'Tyler Perry's Temptation: Confessions of a Marriage Counselor' (PG-13, 1:51)
Mr. Perry has long embraced religion in his films, but perhaps never more so
than in this heavy-handed sermon against deviation from the church, monogamy and
the righteous path of cooking meals for a husband. The actors (with the
exception of Kim Kardashian) are appealing, but the pace is slack and the
preachiness stifling. (Webster)

'Upstream Color' (No rating, 1:36) A man, a woman, some worms, a lot of pigs and
the great big beyond all come into complicated play in the second feature from
the writer and director Shane Carruth (''Primer''). Despite the cosmic reaching
and jigsaw montage, the movie isn't the head-scratcher it seems so just ignore
the story and go with the trippy flow. (Dargis)

Film Series

Magnificent Obsession: Douglas Sirk and Rock Hudson (Friday through Sunday)
Universal struck box-office gold when the studio paired its up-and-coming
leading man Rock Hudson with the German émigré director Douglas Sirk for a
remake of the medical melodrama ''Magnificent Obsession'' in 1954 --
establishing a potent formula that would help the studio survive the industry
upheavals of the 1950s as well as providing the occasion for some surprisingly
enduring works of art. BAMcinématek's weekend marathon offers ''Magnificent
Obsession'' (Friday at 2 and 7 p.m.) as well as three other significant
Sirk-Hudson collaborations, all in 35-millimenter prints: ''The Tarnished
Angels'' (Friday at 4:30 and 9:30 p.m.); ''All That Heaven Allows'' (Saturday at
2, 4:30, 7 and 9:30 p.m.); and ''Written on the Wind'' (Sunday at 2, 4:15 and
9:50 p.m.). BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort
Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $13. (Dave Kehr)

Old School Kung Fu Fest (Friday through Sunday) Organized by the genre
connoisseurs behind the New York Asian Film Festival, this series includes seven
rarely seen films from the golden age of Hong Kong action. The program opens
(Friday at 6:15 p.m.) and closes (Sunday at 9:15 p.m.) with Lau Kar-wing's
highly acclaimed ''Odd Couple,'' a 1979 comedy about a pair of aging martial
arts masters (Mr. Lau and the formidable ''Fat Dragon,'' Sammo Hung) who have to
get their star pupils (also Mr. Lau and Mr. Hung) out of a scrape. Gordon Liu,
perhaps the most classical and concentrated of kung fu directors (the Raoul
Walsh of Southeast Asia?), is present with his ''Shaolin and Wu-Tang,'' a 1983
sequel to his essential ''36th Chamber of Shaolin,'' filmed in Taiwan (Friday at
8:30 p.m. and Saturday at 2 p.m.). For sheer strangeness, it will probably be
hard to beat Law Kei's 1977 ''Dragon Lives Again'' (Friday at 10:30 p.m. and
Sunday at 1 p.m.), one of the many exploitation films made after the death of
Bruce Lee, this time with a Lee impersonator battling a lineup of legendary
villains (including Dracula and the Godfather) as he tries to fight his way out
of hell. All this, and a ''secret screening'' on Sunday at 8 p.m. Anthology Film
Archives, 32-34 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 505-5181,
anthologyfilmarchives.org; $10. (Kehr)

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/04/19/movies/movie-listings-for-april-19-25.html

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUBWAY CINEMAS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                             April 19, 2013 Friday

Cyberattacks a Huge Threat to Start-Ups, and Their Investors

BYLINE: CRAIG A. NEWMAN AND DANIEL L. STEIN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 888 words



HIGHLIGHT: The hacking of major banks and technology giants garner headlines,
but it&#8217;s the tech-driven start-ups and growth companies that can stand to
lose their entire business if they are victims of cyberattacks, the authors
write.


 Craig A. Newman and Daniel L. Stein are litigation partners with Richards Kibbe
& Orbe, the New York-based law firm.  Mr. Newman also serves as chief executive
of the Freedom2Connect Foundation, a nonprofit group focused on promoting
Internet freedom through the use of technology.  Mr. Stein is a former federal
prosecutor.

Recent news coverage of cybercrime reads like a modern spy novel, centered on
antiestablishment hackers, sophisticated foreign espionage and threats of
retaliation.  While the intrigue continues, the endless news of cyberattacks has
been greeted with not much more than a shrug by investors.

Underlying this is a little-known area of online theft aimed at stealing
intellectual property. Prominent attacks of major banks, news organizations and
technology giants garner headlines, but it's the tech-driven start-ups and
growth companies that are often far more vulnerable to an attack.

Hackers are aiming at these young, innovative companies with the goal of walking
away with an entire business.  Consider the innovative American companies that
have revolutionized the way we live and work, like Google and Instagram.  They
were all built on a foundation of intellectual property rights: little more than
a few great ideas, a unique business model and some computer code - all
accessible with a few clicks of the mouse.

For start-ups, cybercrime is not an expensive annoyance, or part of
geo-political gamesmanship, but a potentially devastating blow to their brand
and their competitive position.  A digital intrusion carries the risk that
critically valuable intellectual property is compromised, leading to their next
big idea showing up not on Wall Street, but on the streets of Shanghai.

In fact, a recent study by Kaspersky Lab, a technology security firm, revealed
that a Chinese hacking ring infiltrated the servers of dozens of video gaming
companies. One of them was Trion Worlds, a privately held company in the United
States that develops and publishes video games and gaming platforms including
Defiance, the game tied in to a new sci-fi television series.  Trion hasn't
commented on the attack.  The hackers reportedly stole valuable source code from
the game developers and publishers, probably to sell pirated versions of its
video games.

In the fast-moving, cash-devouring world of start-ups, investors can't simply
assume the executives running these private companies are spending on digital
security.  The venture capitalists, angel investors and others who invest in
start-ups are certainly a savvy group and rightly focused on business plans and
cash flow.  But the truth is that some are behind the curve in demanding
protections against cyber risks, and unwittingly adding significant risk to
their own investments.

Public company investors have some protection, through government-required
disclosures.  In October 2011, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued
guidelines reminding public companies to disclose to shareholders the costs and
risks of cybercrime.

There have been only a handful of these disclosures so far, but the obligation
to report cybercrime is clear.  As public companies come to understand the
material nature of cyber threats, public disclosures should begin to shed more
light on how they are addressing the risk.

But the more alarming fact is that private companies - many of which are the
incubators for the newest technology and intellectual property - are under no
securities law obligation to report cyberattacks to their investors.  And it's
these private companies that are often struggling and unable to spend more than
the bare minimum to safeguard their intellectual property and to protect their
critical infrastructure - making them the perfect target for hackers.

A cyber protection plan in place isn't just good governance, it's also good
business.  A 2012study on the cost of cybercrime found that companies using good
security governance practices saved more than $1 million a year, while those
employing a high-level security leader saved an average of $1.8 million.

What's clear is that cybercrime is a new dimension of risk that private equity
and venture investors are only beginning to grasp.  Professional investors -
many of whom owe fiduciary duties to their own investors - have been too slow to
recognize the threat.   It's time for them to start asking tough questions about
cyber protection and governance.

Just some of the questions they should be asking include: Do management and the
board have a well-considered cyber protection plan in place?  Are the right
personnel involved?  Is there a sufficient budget for doing so?  Does the
company have cyber insurance?  And, perhaps most important, what happens when
the inevitable security breach occurs?

The excitement around a young, innovative company can create a false sense of
security, tempting investors to assume that the risk of a cyberattack is under
control.  In fact, the assumption should be just the opposite.  The hotter and
more buzz-worthy a company becomes, the bigger the target on its back.

Given that a company's entire worth can be walked out the virtual door in a
matter of minutes, it's hard to imagine a more critical issue for investors to
tackle.


     ·    Technology Start-Ups Take Root in Berlin
     ·    Winklevoss Twins Lead Investment in Start-Up Shopping Site


LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 21, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Writing the End

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL RICH.

Nathaniel Rich is the author of the novels ''The Mayor's Tongue'' and, most
recently, ''Odds Against Tomorrow.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1238 words


On Oct. 30 last year, after staying up late to edit the final proofs of my
novel, I woke to discover it had already been adapted for television -- by CNN,
MSNBC, Fox News and every other channel that had interrupted its programming to
show images of a flooded New York City. Nature had taken a few liberties with
the adaptation. In my novel, New York is hit by Tammy, a Category 3 hurricane;
Hurricane Sandy was a Category 1. But the aftermath was largely the same:
massive destruction, displacement and despair, modern catastrophe's dismal
triad.

I can't take credit for having seen it coming. The Army Corps of Engineers saw
it coming. A 1995 report had described, in excruciating detail, what would
happen the next time a major hurricane hit the city. The report reads like
dystopian fiction: a Category 4, for instance, would lead to a 15-foot storm
surge, with Grand Central and Penn Station inundated, hundreds of cars submerged
in the tunnels leading out of Manhattan and a regional blackout. I also relied
on studies commissioned by FEMA and New York City's Office of Emergency
Management, publicly available for years. Bad news all -- and, as it turned out,
accurate.

Scientists and government officials knew what would happen when Sandy hit, just
as they know what will happen in the future when larger storms come. ''We have a
100-year flood every two years now,'' Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said, and though he
later claimed to be exaggerating, he's not exaggerating by much.

The future, once an amorphous, distant plain, is rapidly articulating itself.
Ever since J. G. Ballard's ''Drowned World'' (1962), if not earlier, novelists
have been imagining how we will live in an age of environmental ruin. In Kim
Stanley Robinson's ''Red Mars'' (1993), a scarcity of natural resources leads to
world war; in ''A Friend of the Earth'' (2000), T. Coraghessan Boyle describes a
future in which the biosphere has collapsed, most mammals are extinct and Brazil
is a desert. Dystopian novels about environmental apocalypses tend to contain a
warning: this is the hell we will inherit if we don't change our behavior,
quickly.

But that view is obsolete. We already know it's too late to reverse the planet's
transformation, and we know what is going to happen next -- namely more of the
same, just worse: superstorms, super-droughts, super-pandemics, massive
population displacement, water scarcity, desertification and all the rest. The
grim details can be found in any of the hundreds of nonfiction polemics
published on the subject every year, books with titles like ''Overheated'' and
''Hot.''

E. M. Forster, in his 1909 dystopian short story ''The Machine Stops,''
anticipated the Internet and its sovereignty over our minds; Jules Verne foresaw
the Apollo space program with an uncanny degree of precision; and Mark Twain, in
a story called ''From The London Times of 1904,'' invented a device called the
telelectroscope, which is essentially Skype. But today, perhaps for the first
time in history, our scientists' predictions have outpaced the creative powers
of our novelists. Even as a form, the dystopian novel seems quaint -- our worst
fears are already upon us.

In 2013, a truly dystopian work of fiction cannot rely on fantasy, but must
instead engage more scrupulously with reality. This is one reason Ian McEwan's
''Solar,'' one of the few recent novels that speak eloquently, and with the
appropriate sense of absurdity, about man's efforts to reverse climate change,
is set in the present and recent past. The reality is worse than anyone has
imagined.

Competition for novelists is coming from another flank. Nonfiction writers,
borrowing freely from the novelist's bag of tricks but often with greater
dexterity, seem better equipped to write about environmental collapse. Timothy
Egan's ''Worst Hard Time,'' a historical account of the Dust Bowl, reads like a
thriller, and predicts that even harder times will come soon. Ron Rosenbaum's
''How the End Begins'' has the force of an apocalyptic horror novel -- only
everything in it is real. The best example in recent years is ''The World
Without Us,'' by Alan Weisman, a work of speculative fiction disguised as a
scientific study, which imagines what would happen to the planet should human
beings suddenly vanish. The answer: Earth would be just fine. The globe, after
all, has seen worse. It's the globe's human population that's in trouble.

What is the poor novelist to do about all this, if anything? His concern, as
Saul Bellow put it, is ''man's heart,'' and he is not necessarily adept at
stochastic models, Poisson curves or quantile regression charts. Just as elected
politicians are generally ill-suited to respond to long-term, slow-to-develop
global crises, novelists tend to be ill-suited to address complex scientific
phenomena.

Certainly the novelist has no obligation to write about climate change. But
hasn't man's heart changed too? It's true every generation believes it's the
last, a convenient sentiment that gives urgency and meaning to our brief time on
earth. It is safe to say, however, that there has never been a generation in the
history of human civilization with more access to bad news than ours. And the
news is not all climate-related. The latest issues of periodicals like Emerging
Infectious Diseases, Food Safety Magazine and the International Journal of Cyber
Warfare and Terrorism are just a few keystrokes away, as are maps of the world's
remaining nuclear warheads, the F.B.I.'s list of most wanted fugitives and the
latest seismic data about the Yellowstone supervolcano. (If you don't know about
the Yellowstone supervolcano, just Google ''Yellowstone supervolcano human
extinction.'')

We know that certain milestones -- the collapse of the euro, peak oil and a
megathrust earthquake that demolishes Seattle -- will come to pass. We just
don't know when. There is a huge volcano on La Palma, one of the Canary Islands;
scientists claim that the next time it erupts, half a trillion tons of rock will
slide into the ocean, triggering the largest tsunami in recorded history, one
that will make landfall, eight hours later, on the Atlantic Seaboard.

Even if you're not the kind of person who compulsively searches ''mad cow
outbreak'' or subscribes to the National Weather Service's ''Active Alerts,''
the bad news is unrelenting. No Ebola flare-up or near-miss asteroid goes
unpublicized. The Internet echoes the information until it suffocates everything
else. In ''Future Shock,'' published more than 40 years ago, Alvin Toffler
described this condition as ''information overload.'' We're
information-saturated, and most of the information is ominous.

Novelists may be powerless to change this terrifying new world, but they can
make a greater effort to understand how it is changing us. Isn't this, after
all, why we read novels -- to see ourselves more clearly? A great novel holds a
mirror to our secret desires and fears; it allows us to confront our long-term
crises. It helps us to understand how the vast, complex problems of our time
connect with our private inner lives. Novelists therefore have an obligation to
pose the intimate questions: How does all this bad news affect our relationships
with our loved ones, our hopes for the future, the way we go about our daily
lives? Do we ignore it, turn cynical, or become overwhelmed by dread? What is
all this information doing to our minds? What is it doing to our hearts?

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/04/21/books/review/writing-the-end.html

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY R. KIKUO JOHNSON)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             April 22, 2013 Monday

Knowing Where to Focus the Wisdom of Crowds

BYLINE: NICK BILTON

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 762 words



HIGHLIGHT: The theory of the &#8220;wisdom of crowds&#8221; might not apply to
massive terrorist manhunts, where fiction can be perceived as fact. Instead,
online crowds can be used to ensure that people see correct information released
by law-enforcement officials.


 11:06 a.m. | Updated  Added apology from Reddit.

It looks as if the theory of the "wisdom of crowds" doesn't apply to terrorist
manhunts.

Last week after the Boston Marathon bombings, the Internet quickly offered to
help find the people responsible. In a scene metaphorically reminiscent of a
movie in which vigilantes swarm the streets with pitchforks and lanterns, people
took to Reddit, the popular community and social news Web site, and started
scouring images posted online from the bombings.

One Reddit forum told users to search for "people carrying black bags," and
noted that "if they look suspicious, then post them. Then people will try and
follow their movements using all the images."

In the process, each time a scrap of information was discovered - the color of a
hat, the type of straps on a backpack, the weighted droop of a bag - it was
passed out on Twitter like "Wanted" posters tacked to lampposts. It didn't
matter whether it was right, wrong or even completely made up (some images
posted to forums had been manipulated) - off it went, fiction and fact
indistinguishable.

Some misinformation online landed on the front page of The New York Post,
incorrectly identifying an innocent high school student as a suspect.

Later in the week, the Web wrongly identified one of the suspects as  a student
from Brown University who went missing earlier this month. As Alexis Madrigal of
The Atlantic noted in a lengthy study trying to understand how the student was
named a suspect by the public and not by the police, the information appears to
have been plucked out of thin cyber air. "Perhaps this is some kind of hoax
perpetrated by some unknown group," he wrote.

Although the real suspects were eventually identified, investigators have now
come out to say that these online crowds were doing more damage than good in
their quest to help.

On Sunday The Washington Post offered a detailed account of how investigators
found the suspects, with thousands of local and federal officials engaging in a
"painstaking and mind-numbing" search through videos and photos from the area.
But in addition to combing through a million needles in a million haystacks, the
Boston police commissioner, Edward Davis, told the paper that the authorities
partly released images of the real suspects to try to control the flood of
misinformation flowing onto social media sites where "online vigilante
detectives" might have tarnished the investigation.

On Monday Reddit officially apologized for its role in spreading misinformation.
"Some of the activity on reddit fueled online witch hunts and dangerous
speculation which spiraled into very negative consequences for innocent
parties," wrote Erik Martin, general manager of Reddit, on the company's Web
site. "The reddit staff and the millions of people on reddit around the world
deeply regret that this happened."

Mr. Martin noted that a few years ago the company enacted a policy that ensured
users did not post people's personal information on the site to try to avoid
this confusion. "'Let's find out who this is' events frequently result in witch
hunts, often incorrectly identifying innocent suspects and disrupting or ruining
their lives," Mr. Martin said. "We hoped that the crowdsourced search for new
information would not spark exactly this type of witch hunt. We were wrong."

Perhaps the scariest aspect of these crowd-like investigations is that when
information is incorrect, no one is held responsible.

As my colleague David Carr noted in his column this week, "even good reporters
with good sources can end up with stories that go bad." But the difference
between CNN, The Associated Press or The New York Post getting it wrong, is that
those names are held accountable when they publish incorrect news. No one is
going to remember, or punish, the users on Reddit or Twitter who incorrectly
identify random high school runners and missing college students as terrorists.

There is one area where the online crowd can help in a situation like this. When
the correct information is released by the trained authorities, like the Boston
Police Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, people can do their
best to ensure that it is circulated through the crowd and seen by as many
people as possible. There's definitely wisdom in doing that.


     ·    Digital Diary: Facebook Poke and the Tedium of Success Theater
     ·    Disruptions: Twitter's Uneasy Role in Guarding the Truth
     ·    What We're Reading: A Nobel Peace Prize for Us All?
     ·    The Twitter Train Has Left the Station
     ·    One on One: Tim Jones of Buzzient, Hunting Chatter on Explosives


LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             April 22, 2013 Monday

Today's Scuttlebot: Amazon Pilots, and Facebook in Iowa

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 381 words



HIGHLIGHT: The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the
Web for important and peculiar items. For Monday, selections include a game
maker trying to charge console game prices for mobile games; a machine that can
learn to play old Nintendo games as a step closer to the flexibility of a human
brain; and a Microsoft analysis draws a different conclusion from a cyberattack
in 2010 on companies including Google.


Here are some of the more interesting items that the tech reporters and editors
of The New York Times found on the Web recently. More Scuttlebot can be found
here.

Facebook Home Passes 500,000 Installations on Google Play in First Week
The Next Web |  Facebook Home gets poor reviews in first week on the Google Play
store. - Vindu Goel

Facebook Is Said to Be Behind $1 Billion Data Center in Iowa
Blogs.desmoinesregister.com |  Facebook goes to Iowa to add another data center.
Says it is looking for a place with low disaster risk. Tornadoes? - Damon Darlin

'Aurora' Cyber Attackers Were Really Running CounterIntelligence
Cio.com.au |  Google always said its 2010 cyberattackers were after activists'
Gmail accounts. Microsoft thinks they were after more. - Nicole Perlroth

Arbor Networks Security Findings
Arbornetworks.com |  Denial-of-service (DDOS) attacks are becoming a bigger
nuisance. - Nicole Perlroth

Why Developers Are Leaving the Facebook Platform
Andrewchen.co |  An interesting blog post on why Facebook has become an
undesirable platform for startups to build a business around. - Brian X. Chen

NamcoBandai Bravely Prices Its Apple Games at $55
Venturebeat.com |  $155, if you buy all three parts. Instead of free and
low-price mobile games, one company asks console gaming price. - Quentin Hardy

Restart Me Back Up
The Verge |  Your old friend, the Start button, may be returning to the next
version of Windows. - Nick Wingfield

Digital Cameras for Dogs
Sony.jp |  Sony's high-definition camera goes on skiers and scuba divers. Next
week in Japan there will be a dog harness for it, too. - Quentin Hardy

'Calvin and Hobbes' Gets an App. 'The Far Side' Holds Out.
Slate.com |  It's part of the GoComics app, with "Doonesbury" and "Dilbert." But
Gary Larson has resisted the online route. - Howell Murray

Yahoo Brings Summly to iPhone App
CNet Green Tech |  Yahoo continues to unleash a tsunami of new mobile apps. -
Jenna Wortham

Super Mario and Artificial Intelligence
Newyorker.com |  What would it take to build a machine as smart as humans? Maybe
Super Mario Bros. can answer that question. - Nick Bilton

Pilot Season on Amazon Instant Video
Amazon.com |  Amazon's original content is now online - and the company wants
viewers to vote on which get turned into full shows. - Jenna Wortham

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 25, 2013 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. General Sees Hope For China Help on Korea

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 694 words


BEIJING -- After three days of talks here, America's top military officer said
Wednesday that he believed China wanted to limit the nuclear ambitions of North
Korea but that it remained unclear how China would work toward that goal.

Contrary to suggestions by some in the United States that China is not
interested in solving the North Korean problem, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the ''Chinese leadership is as
concerned as we are with North Korea's march toward nuclearization and ballistic
missile technology.''

''And they have given us an assurance that they are working on it, as we are.''
He added, ''But I didn't gain any insights into particularly how they would do
that.''

General Dempsey met Tuesday with the Chinese leadership, including President Xi
Jinping and Gen. Fan Changlong, the vice chairman of the Central Military
Commission, which runs the Chinese Army, Navy and Air Force.

They were the most senior-level talks between the American and Chinese
militaries in nearly two years. Because of the long gap in direct communication,
and the growing distrust between the two sides over China's fast military
modernization and assertive behavior in the East China and South China Seas,
General Dempsey arrived with a major set of issues concerning China's military
behavior.

As a symbol of how China's maritime power is growing, a senior Chinese military
officer announced Tuesday in the middle of General Dempsey's visit that China
would build a second aircraft carrier and that it would be more sophisticated
than the first carrier launched last year. The officer, Song Xue, deputy chief
of staff of the Chinese Navy, said the ''next aircraft carrier we need will be
larger and carry more fighters.''

At a news conference with reporters based in China, General Dempsey said he
warned the Chinese military leaders that the United States would abide by its
alliance with Japan in the dispute between China and Japan over who owns the
islands known as the Senkaku by Japan and the Diaoyu by China.

Chinese vessels have been challenging Japanese ships off the islands, which are
administered by Japan, since the dispute erupted in September. Xi Jinping, who
was vice president at the time, advised the United States to keep out of the
argument.

On Tuesday, eight Chinese patrol ships approached the islands, the largest
contingent to appear at one time since September. The Chinese news agency,
Xinhua, said the Chinese ships had forced Japanese fishing boats out of the
waters around the islands.

Western defense analysts have said the Chinese continue to send surveillance
vessels close by the islands to test whether the United States will live up to
its alliance obligations with Japan.

General Dempsey said he left no doubt in his discussions with Chinese officials
that ''we do have certain treaty obligations with Japan that we would honor.''

On the contentious issue of cyberattacks, General Dempsey said he asked the
Chinese ''to put a team of their best and brightest'' together to work with the
Americans on seeking rules of conduct on computer security.

In the past month, the Obama administration has criticized China for what it
calls mounting evidence that the Chinese military was involved in the widespread
theft of data from American computer networks, particularly those of American
corporations.

China's leadership appears to have heard the Obama administration's admonitions
that it will not tolerate the practice of cyberattacks aimed at intellectual
property and gaining commercial secrets from American businesses, American
officials say.

The Chinese agreed during a recent visit of Secretary of State John Kerry to
join a ''cyber working group'' with the Americans. ''There has to be some kind
of code of conduct established,'' General Dempsey said.

But the Chinese apparently did not give any answers to General Dempsey on
whether they intended to stop these activities, as specifically requested by the
Obama administration.

At the start of General Dempsey's visit on Monday, a senior Chinese general,
Fang Fenghui, said that breaches in cybersecurity could result in as much damage
as a nuclear attack.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/04/25/world/asia/us-hopeful-after-talks-with-china.h
tml

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 3, 2013 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ex-Worker Created Havoc With Hacking, U.S. Says

BYLINE: By MOSI SECRET

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 369 words


Michael Meneses did not seem like the type of guy who would end up in federal
court, pleading not guilty to charges of computer hacking.

For years he commuted from his home in Smithtown, N.Y., on Long Island, to his
job as a software programmer at Spellman High Voltage Electronics Corporation, a
manufacturer of industrial power supplies in nearby Hauppage. His specialty was
known as enterprise resource planning.

But after Mr. Meneses was passed over for promotions, he was upset enough to
announce his resignation, giving two weeks' notice. Before his final day in
January 2012, colleagues caught him copying files from his computer to a flash
drive, the authorities said. They cut off his access to company servers.

Soon odd things started happening. Employees at Spellman began reporting that
they were unable to process routine transactions and were receiving error
messages. An applicant for his old position received an e-mail from an anonymous
address, warning him, ''Don't accept any position.'' And the company's business
calendar was changed by a month, throwing production and finance operations into
disorder.

That account was laid out by federal prosecutors on Thursday, who said that Mr.
Meneses, using stolen passwords and his high-level knowledge of the computer
system, had hacked Spellman's servers and in three weeks caused enough mayhem to
cost his former employer more than $90,000. ''The defendant engaged in a
21st-century campaign of cyber-vandalism and high-tech revenge,'' said Loretta
E. Lynch, the United States attorney for the Eastern District. Mr. Meneses was
arrested Thursday.

Investigators traced the e-mail account used to warn off the applicant for his
old job to an Internet protocol address that belonged to Mr. Meneses's new
employer. They traced the changes to the company calendar to a hotel in Cary,
N.C., a short distance from Mr. Meneses's new job. Records from the hotel showed
that he was staying there at the time of the online attack.

Mr. Meneses, 41, officially denied the allegations in Federal District Court in
Central Islip on Thursday and was released on $50,000 bond. He faces up to 10
years in prison. A lawyer for Mr. Meneses, Tracey E. Gaffey, declined to
comment.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/05/03/nyregion/ex-programmer-pleads-not-guilty-in-lo
ng-island-computer-hacking-case.html

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 5, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cyberparenting and the Risk of T.M.I.

BYLINE: By PAMELA PAUL

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1875 words


It may be a timeless curse of parenthood to know simultaneously too much about
one's teenager and yet never access the information one actually wants. But the
unruly morass of today's social media and cellphone-infested landscape seems to
have made both aspects of the curse worse.

Nowadays, if you are the parent of a 14-year-old, you can see him guzzle beer,
flirt with a girl who squeezes her bosom in every ''selfie'' she posts on
Instagram, and describe a fellow ninth grader in language saltier than any you
ever used at that age.

Of course, your parents never even heard you swear. They had no idea where you
went after you slammed the front door behind you. They couldn't begin to fathom
what you were really up to on a Saturday night.

Today, parents are just one click away: buddied up on Facebook, logging on to
Tumblr, peering over cryptic text messages and trying to get a glimpse of
Snapchat images before they dissolve into the ether.

Parents who wouldn't be caught dead reading their teenage daughter's diary are
stuck in a bind. Who really wants to be privy to all this? Karen Sanders, a
49-year-old mother of two in Scarsdale, N.Y., finds herself reading comments
made on her 15-year-old daughter's page. ''She'll post something about someone
else, and I find myself stalking her friends -- not even mine! By then, even I'm
creeped out -- by myself.''

Sandra Tsing Loh, 51, a writer, radio personality and the mother of two tween
daughters in the Los Angeles area, said: ''All the boundaries have broken down.
Facebook is constantly sending alerts of what they're up to: liking and
commenting and posting and sharing, like squirrels pecking away. But when their
mothers are reading, it's way too much information.''

For many adults, the Internet poses a vast array of potential privacy
infringements, not all of which are readily defined or understood. But for
teenagers the threat is clear: Big Mother.

And Big Father. The author Dan Savage refers to it as ''the burden of knowing.''
He and his husband are what he calls ''very heavy-duty monitors''(''kind of the
fascist parents'') of their 15-year-old son. ''Children leave a digital trail,
and you feel like a negligent parent if you're not monitoring,'' Mr. Savage
said. ''What we're trying to balance is not knowing everything we can know,
which is everything, and giving our son some leeway to make mistakes without
dying in the process. It's horrifying.''

Yes, we know contemporary parents are hyperinvolved in their children's lives.
But the term ''helicopter parent,'' with its menacing tones of parental
omniscience, has nothing on the intimate reach of the cyberparent. A helicopter
hovers above, at a safe distance, with lots of insulating air between.
Cyberparents, on the other hand, are squished right up next to their offspring.

Some parents use the ''fly on the wall'' approach, monitoring regularly or
checking in periodically, without comment either online or off. Others prefer
the ''pick your battles'' method, reserving action for moments when a sister
says, ''Hmm, I saw that picture your daughter posted'' or an impolitic slang
phrase is flung online in an iffy manner. Then there are the polar extreme
tactics of ''head in the sand'' and ''not until you're 18.''

Schools across the country constantly run workshops, often with a range of
perspectives, to help straggling parents. A growing number of companies have
also popped up to assist parents in navigating the landscape, whether it is
supervising their children's online behavior or maximizing their privacy
settings. The home page of one of these ''parental intelligence'' firms,
uKnow.com, states its role as: ''Helping mom and dad understand their child's
use of technology, and protect their safety, privacy and reputation.''

Such programs are not about digital spying, said Tim Woda, a founder of
uKnow.com and its senior vice president for strategic growth. ''That would just
teach children that being sneaky and underhanded is O.K. as long as it's for a
good reason,'' he said.

Instead, children see the app installed on their devices, which helps them
self-censor. ''Our customers just want to understand what's happening in their
kids' world,'' he said, ''and so much of it is online that unless they get
inside, they're in the dark.''

A majority of parents of teenagers have at least tried to maintain some degree
of control. According to a 2012 study of 802 parents of teenagers by the Pew
Internet Project, 59 percent of parents of teenagers on social-networking sites
have talked to their child because they were concerned about something posted to
their profile or account, and 42 percent have searched for their child's name
online to see what information is out there.

Most parents recognize the hypocrisy in their roving curiosity. ''When I was a
15-year-old seminarian in Chicago, I was sneaking into gay bars, which were not
nice places back then,'' Mr. Savage said. ''If I'd had that on my Instagram and
e-mails, my parents would have murdered me.''

''Flaming mean 6th graders on Facebook,'' began a furious post Ms. Tsing Loh
wrote on Facebook last spring, which continued, ''One of the most notable
features of Facebook, I find, is that now a mother can see, in real time,
festivals of 'Lord of the Flies' meanness and piling up upon say one's cool and
sweet 11-year-old child.'' Ms. Tsing Loh described the anguish of watching
children she had shepherded to the Cheesecake Factory since kindergarten post
unkind things about her child. (Among them: her daughter is ''Facebook friends
with Mommy.'')

Parents describe finding out things they had rather not have known. One quick
glance at Instagram, and they may not want that lovely girl they welcomed at
their weekend house several times last summer to return. You wouldn't believe
what that boy, the one who is a lifeguard at the town pool, said about a
12-year-old in her bikini. And who is rolling a spliff on the 14-year-old
neighbor's Tumblr?

No established guidelines exist for what parents do with this material. Should
they riposte? Comment? Call another child's parent? In the Pew study, half of
parents who use social media themselves have responded to comments or posts on a
child's profile.

Kuae Kelch Mattox, national president of Mocha Moms Inc., and the mother of
three children (two of whom use social media), is careful to ask her children if
it's all right to tag them in the ''proud parent'' photos she posts on her own
profile page. ''If I set a tone for mutual respect, I think it will be
reciprocated,'' she said.

According to a 2011 Pew survey, children expressed a decided ambivalence about
having their parents friend them on social networks. ''I don't want to friend
her but she like friended me,'' a 13-year-old girl told an interviewer.

For some children, having Mom or Aunt Jessie comment is just plain embarrassing.
''Someone will change their status update to 'going to the park' and then you'll
see 80 family members saying, 'Have fun at the park,' '' complained another
13-year-old. Who invited Mom and Dad to the party anyway?

For parents, embarrassing their children is generally the least of it. Many are
already in an outright panic over what their children do online. The worst-case
scenarios involve predators and others who would inflict serious harm. According
to the 2012 Pew poll, 72 percent of parents are very or somewhat concerned about
their children's interactions with strangers online. Then there are the twin
teenage boogeymen of the Internet age: cyberbullying and sexting. One voguish
form of torment among kids online is setting up fake accounts (identity-theft
light, since no money is involved) for other children, and posting photographs
and comments in their names.

When Anna Berry's 13-year-old daughter was in fifth grade, the family learned
that a classmate was impersonating the child online. The doppelgänger put her
birthday, address and photos taken at their daughter's school in Littleton,
Colo., onto Facebook, with no security settings, and began to friend other
children. Ms. Berry watched in horror as her daughter, who wasn't even on the
site then, saw posts in her name go online.

''You could see the tears rolling down her cheeks, the sense of violation,'' she
recalled. Two years later, Ms. Berry's daughter is allowed on Facebook, but not
to friend children from school. ''I don't want the drama,'' she said.

Then there is the typical teenage bad behavior offline that the Internet
broadcasts to the world and codifies for the ages. Even low-lying infractions
like suggestive posing and graphic language gain potency when addressed to
hundreds of thousands of viewers.

''I don't like the cursing,'' Ms. Mattox said. ''I've said to them, 'Did you
really have to say that?' and it's: 'Oh, Mom, you don't have to be there. You
don't have to read it.' '' On another occasion, she saw her daughter posting
updates from her phone well after bedtime. For a while, she and husband took the
phone away at night.

But no matter how much today's lurking parents may find out, there is a great
deal else going on in cyberspace that they aren't aware of. Teenagers (though
not all parents) realize they can dictate who sees what on Facebook. And a good
number of tweens and teenagers have already migrated from ''their parent's
Facebook'' to zippier sites like Snapchat, Instagram and Tumblr, all of which
feel less welcoming to the 20th reunion crowd.

''What I've found out is, they know how to shut you out,'' Ms. Sanders said. ''I
don't have the access codes to my daughter's Tumblr account, so unless she
leaves them open, I know nothing about her Tumblr life.'' Occasionally, Ms.
Sanders has asked her daughter for the codes, but her daughter then changes
them. Like most savvy parents, Ms. Sanders has installed parental controls on
the family computers, but has found the phrase ''how to take parental controls
off'' in their search history.

Parents also say that while they may be subjected to too much information
online, insight into the offline world of their children has become spotty and
opaque. The family phone is no longer the gateway to communication. Parents no
longer know who is calling their children, nor can they glean insight from
overheard snippets of conversation, tearful exchanges and slammed receivers.

''Sometimes I think we know less,'' said Wendy Weinstein Karp, a mother of two
children in Larchmont, N.Y. ''A friend will be sleeping over, and suddenly
someone is rushing down to the door because they're all in touch with each other
on their gadgets. People come and go from the house, and you have no idea what's
going on. We're less in control of the information.''

It may be small consolation, but often, the feelings of shock, intrusion and
disapproval are mutual. June Jewell, 51, a small-business owner from Vienna,
Va., said her daughter will see a photo of her mother on Facebook and complain,
''Why did you post that?'' Ms. Jewell will put up evidence of herself singing
karaoke and her daughter will respond, ''You're embarrassing me!'' Ms. Jewell,
who has three children active on social media, said nobody wants to think their
parents are cool. ''What's funny is that her friends follow me on Twitter and
they're not critical at all.''

As far as she knows.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/05/05/fashion/cyber
-parents-accessing-perhaps-tmi.html

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sandra Tsing Loh with her daughters at an event in Los Angeles
in 2012. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN MILLER/GETTY IMAGES) (ST10) DRAWING (DRAWING BY
EMILY FLAKE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                               May 5, 2013 Sunday

Disruptions: New Motto for Silicon Valley: First Security, Then Innovation

BYLINE: NICK BILTON

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 830 words



HIGHLIGHT: As Congress debates an Internet security bill, the disruptive
philosophies of Silicon Valley technology companies could wind up damaging them
if they do not create better tools to ward off hackers.


At Facebook's headquarters in Palo Alto, Calif., are stark white posters with
bright red statements like "Done is better than perfect" and "Move fast and
break things."

These disruptive philosophies embody the spirit not just of Facebook but of
Silicon Valley. Yet today, when technology companies have become the prime
targets of rogue governments and hackers, the ideologies that drive these
companies to provoke could end up disrupting these companies.

Conversely, the signs sitting in security research firms across the country
warn, "Carelessness causes security incidents."

Although technology companies say they take security seriously, protecting their
customers seems to come second to announcing new products. Take Twitter, where
people's accounts are frequently hacked. In the last few months alone, this has
happened to Burger King, BBC, NPR, The Associated Press and a slew of
celebrities and users. In that time, Twitter has proudly announced updates to
features on its mobile and desktop apps, introduced a music Web site and
redesigned its company blog. But it still hasn't released two-factor
authentication, a security tool used by the rest of the industry to deter
hackers.

Although Twitter declined to comment, I'm sure most of the people on the site
who have seen their accounts pilfered over the last several years would rather
have two-factor authentication than a shiny new Twitter blog.

One solution is a bill crawling through Congress over the last two years, the
Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act, known as Cispa. The bill would
make it easy for tech companies to share information about computer security
threats with government agencies, helping fortify against cyberattacks.

But privacy groups say that Cispa is not a solution to the problem, and that
instead it hands the highly sensitive personal data we want protected to the
government.

"It has to be the obligation of these tech companies to build in security from
the very beginning before we start moving into solutions about bringing the
government into the private sector," said Leslie Harris, president and chief
executive of the Center for Democracy and Technology, a Washington-based
advocacy group financed by a broad coalition of technology and telecommunication
companies. "You want to see these very innovative companies step up and become
the leaders in security solutions first."

Cispa's creators and defenders see it differently. They argue that companies are
not simply fortifying against a child in his bedroom who is trying to get into
their servers for fun. Today's hackers hail from foreign governments like those
in China, Syria and Estonia, and are adept at getting what they want.

Representative Mike Rogers, Republican of Michigan and the chairman of the House
Intelligence Committee, who was one of the authors of Cispa, recently said that
"our government, our industries and your personal information will be subjected
to hundreds of thousands of attempts at hacking" in a single day. "We are in a
stealthy cyber war in America. And we're losing."

He thinks the government can solve that problem.

Kelsey Knight, director of communications for Mr. Rogers, said in a phone
interview that Cispa could stop "90 percent of the current security breaches"
that happen today. "Then, in reverse, these companies would be able to share
their threat of information and code back to the government and that will add to
the list of zeros and ones that we can keep defending against together."

Ms. Knight noted that start-ups cannot defend themselves against today's
advanced attacks because the cost can be hundreds of thousands of dollars. She
said Cispa and other government groups can help.

One thing is clear: today's tactics are not working.

During the State of the Union address this year, President Obama cited the need
to protect "national security" and "privacy" while defending against cyber
attacks. The president has also been meeting with chief executives to discuss
ways to combat the threat of computer warfare and corporate espionage.

Cispa, now in the Senate, could take months, if not years, if it is to emerge at
all from Congress. Until then, advocacy groups believe it falls to the start-ups
to put more effort into security.

"The 'move fast and break things' philosophy is not a philosophy that has
necessarily been good for our privacy," Ms. Harris said. "I certainly believe
that government and companies should be working together, but information
sharing is just a very small part of the cyber security puzzle. It's companies
investing the resources to strengthen their own security first."

Maybe it's time for companies in Silicon Valley to replace those posters with
ones that say, "Move slowly and protect your users."

E-mail: bilton@nytimes.com


     ·    For Zuckerberg, a Big Payout From Facebook Stock
     ·    Looking at Facebook's Friend and Relationship Status Through Big Data
     ·    The Flattening of Design
     ·    Facebook Refines Ad Targeting
     ·    The Potential and the Risks of Data Science


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 6, 2013 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

When Security Needs Take a Back Seat

BYLINE: By NICK BILTON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 812 words


At Facebook's headquarters in Palo Alto, Calif., are stark white posters with
bright red statements like ''Done is better than perfect'' and ''Move fast and
break things.''

These disruptive philosophies embody the spirit not just of Facebook but of
Silicon Valley. Yet today, when technology companies have become the prime
targets of rogue governments and hackers, the ideologies that drive these
companies to provoke could end up disrupting these companies.

Conversely, the signs sitting in security research firms across the country
warn, ''Carelessness causes security incidents.''

Although technology companies say they take security seriously, protecting their
customers seems to come second to announcing new products. Take Twitter, where
people's accounts are frequently hacked. In the last few months alone, this has
happened to Burger King, BBC, NPR, The Associated Press and a slew of
celebrities and users. In that time, Twitter has proudly announced updates to
features on its mobile and desktop apps, introduced a music Web site and
redesigned its company blog. But it still hasn't released two-factor
authentication, a security tool used by the rest of the industry to deter
hackers.

Although Twitter declined to comment, I'm sure most of the people on the site
who have seen their accounts pilfered over the last several years would rather
have two-factor authentication than a shiny new Twitter blog.

One solution is a bill crawling through Congress over the last two years, the
Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act, known as Cispa. The bill would
make it easy for tech companies to share information about computer security
threats with government agencies, helping fortify against cyberattacks.

But privacy groups say that Cispa is not a solution to the problem, and that
instead it hands the highly sensitive personal data we want protected to the
government.

''It has to be the obligation of these tech companies to build in security from
the very beginning before we start moving into solutions about bringing the
government into the private sector,'' said Leslie Harris, president and chief
executive of the Center for Democracy and Technology, a Washington-based
advocacy group financed by a broad coalition of technology and telecommunication
companies. ''You want to see these very innovative companies step up and become
the leaders in security solutions first.''

Cispa's creators and defenders see it differently. They argue that companies are
not simply fortifying against a child in his bedroom who is trying to get into
their servers for fun. Today's hackers hail from foreign governments like those
in China, Syria and Estonia, and are adept at getting what they want.

Representative Mike Rogers, Republican of Michigan and the chairman of the House
Intelligence Committee, who was one of the authors of Cispa, recently said that
''our government, our industries and your personal information will be subjected
to hundreds of thousands of attempts at hacking'' in a single day. ''We are in a
stealthy cyber war in America. And we're losing.''

He thinks the government can solve that problem.

Kelsey Knight, director of communications for Mr. Rogers, said in a phone
interview that Cispa could stop ''90 percent of the current security breaches''
that happen today. ''Then, in reverse, these companies would be able to share
their threat of information and code back to the government and that will add to
the list of zeros and ones that we can keep defending against together.''

Ms. Knight noted that start-ups cannot defend themselves against today's
advanced attacks because the cost can be hundreds of thousands of dollars. She
said Cispa and other government groups can help.

One thing is clear: today's tactics are not working.

During the State of the Union address this year, President Obama cited the need
to protect ''national security'' and ''privacy'' while defending against cyber
attacks. The president has also been meeting with chief executives to discuss
ways to combat the threat of computer warfare and corporate espionage.

Cispa, now in the Senate, could take months, if not years, if it is to emerge at
all from Congress. Until then, advocacy groups believe it falls to the start-ups
to put more effort into security.

''The 'move fast and break things' philosophy is not a philosophy that has
necessarily been good for our privacy,'' Ms. Harris said. ''I certainly believe
that government and companies should be working together, but information
sharing is just a very small part of the cyber security puzzle. It's companies
investing the resources to strengthen their own security first.''

Maybe it's time for companies in Silicon Valley to replace those posters with
ones that say, ''Move slowly and protect your users.''

E-mail: bilton@nytimes.com

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/05/05/disruptions-new-motto-for-silicon-valle
y-first-security-then-innovation/

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 7, 2013 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

China's Military Is Accused by U.S. In Cyberattacks

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1337 words


WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration on Monday explicitly accused China's
military of mounting attacks on American government computer systems and defense
contractors, saying one motive could be to map ''military capabilities that
could be exploited during a crisis.''

While some recent estimates have more than 90 percent of cyberespionage in the
United States originating in China, the accusations relayed in the Pentagon's
annual report to Congress on Chinese military capabilities were remarkable in
their directness. Until now the administration avoided directly accusing both
the Chinese government and the People's Liberation Army of using cyberweapons
against the United States in a deliberate, government-developed strategy to
steal intellectual property and gain strategic advantage.

''In 2012, numerous computer systems around the world, including those owned by
the U.S. government, continued to be targeted for intrusions, some of which
appear to be attributable directly to the Chinese government and military,'' the
nearly 100-page report said.

The report, released Monday, described China's primary goal as stealing
industrial technology, but said many intrusions also seemed aimed at obtaining
insights into American policy makers' thinking. It warned that the same
information-gathering could easily be used for ''building a picture of U.S.
network defense networks, logistics, and related military capabilities that
could be exploited during a crisis.''

It was unclear why the administration chose the Pentagon report to make
assertions that it has long declined to make at the White House. A White House
official declined to say at what level the report was cleared. A senior defense
official said ''this was a thoroughly coordinated report,'' but did not
elaborate.

On Tuesday, a spokeswoman for the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Hua
Chunying, criticized the report.

''China has repeatedly said that we resolutely oppose all forms of hacker
attacks,'' she said. ''We're willing to carry out an even-tempered and
constructive dialogue with the U.S. on the issue of Internet security. But we
are firmly opposed to any groundless accusations and speculations, since they
will only damage the cooperation efforts and atmosphere between the two sides to
strengthen dialogue and cooperation.''

Missing from the Pentagon report was any acknowledgment of the similar abilities
being developed in the United States, where billions of dollars are spent each
year on cyberdefense and constructing increasingly sophisticated cyberweapons.
Recently the director of the National Security Agency, Gen. Keith Alexander, who
is also commander of the military's fast-growing Cyber Command, told Congress
that he was creating more than a dozen offensive cyberunits, designed to mount
attacks, when necessary, at foreign computer networks.

When the United States mounted its cyberattacks on Iran's nuclear facilities
early in President Obama's first term, Mr. Obama expressed concern to aides that
China and other states might use the American operations to justify their own
intrusions.

But the Pentagon report describes something far more sophisticated: a China that
has now leapt into the first ranks of offensive cybertechnologies. It is
investing in electronic warfare capabilities in an effort to blind American
satellites and other space assets, and hopes to use electronic and traditional
weapons systems to gradually push the United States military presence into the
mid-Pacific nearly 2,000 miles from China's coast.

The report argues that China's first aircraft carrier, the Liaoning,
commissioned last September, is the first of several carriers the country plans
to deploy over the next 15 years. It said the carrier would not reach
''operational effectiveness'' for three or four years, but is already set to
operate in the East and South China Seas, the site of China's territorial
disputes with several neighbors, including Japan, Indonesia, the Philippines and
Vietnam. The report notes a new carrier base under construction in Yuchi.

The report also detailed China's progress in developing its stealth aircraft,
first tested in January 2011.

Three months ago the Obama administration would not officially confirm reports
in The New York Times, based in large part on a detailed study by the computer
security firm Mandiant, that identified P.L.A. Unit 61398 near Shanghai as the
likely source of many of the biggest thefts of data from American companies and
some government institutions.

Until Monday, the strongest critique of China had come from Thomas E. Donilon,
the president's national security adviser, who said in a speech at the Asia
Society in March that American companies were increasingly concerned about
''cyberintrusions emanating from China on an unprecedented scale,'' and that
''the international community cannot tolerate such activity from any country.''
He stopped short of blaming the Chinese government for the espionage.

But government officials said the overall issue of cyberintrusions would move to
the center of the United States-China relationship, and it was raised on recent
trips to Beijing by Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew and the chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey.

To bolster its case, the report argues that cyberweapons have become integral to
Chinese military strategy. It cites two major public works of military doctrine,
''Science of Strategy'' and ''Science of Campaigns,'' saying they identify
''information warfare (I.W.) as integral to achieving information superiority
and an effective means for countering a stronger foe.'' But it notes that
neither document ''identifies the specific criteria for employing a computer
network attack against an adversary,'' though they ''advocate developing
capabilities to compete in this medium.''

It is a critique the Chinese could easily level at the United States, where the
Pentagon has declined to describe the conditions under which it would use
offensive cyberweapons. The Iran operation was considered a covert action, run
by intelligence agencies, though many techniques used to manipulate Iran's
computer controllers would be common to a military program.

The Pentagon report also explicitly states that China's investments in the
United States aim to bolster its own military technology. ''China continues to
leverage foreign investments, commercial joint ventures, academic exchanges, the
experience of repatriated Chinese students and researchers, and state-sponsored
industrial and technical espionage to increase the level of technologies and
expertise available to support military research, development and acquisition.''

But the report does not address how the Obama administration should deal with
that problem in an economically interconnected world where the United States
encourages those investments, and its own in China, to create jobs and deepen
the relationship between the world's No. 1 and No. 2 economies. Some experts
have argued that the threat from China has been exaggerated. They point out that
the Chinese government -- unlike, say, Iran or North Korea -- has such deep
investments in the United States that it cannot afford to mount a crippling
cyberstrike on the country.

The report estimates that China's defense budget is $135 billion to $215
billion, a large range attributable in part to the opaqueness of Chinese
budgeting. While the figure is huge in Asia, the top estimate would still be
less than a third of what the United States spends every year.

Some of the report's most interesting elements examine the debate inside China
over whether this is a moment for the country to bide its time, focusing on
internal challenges, or to directly challenge the United States and other powers
in the Pacific.

But it said that ''proponents of a more active and assertive Chinese role on the
world stage'' -- a group whose members it did not name -- ''have suggested that
China would be better served by a firm stance in the face of U.S. or other
regional pressure.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/05/07/world/asia/us-accuses-chinas-military-in-cyber
attacks.html

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

China and Cyberwar

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 532 words


Despite denials from Beijing, there seems little doubt that China's computer
hackers are engaged in an aggressive and increasingly threatening campaign of
cyberespionage directed at a range of government and private systems in the
United States, including the power grid and telecommunications networks.

The Obama administration had carefully avoided naming a specific culprit. Now it
has. In the Pentagon's annual report to Congress on China, the Chinese
government and, in particular, the Chinese military are explicitly accused of
mounting attacks on United States government computer systems and defense
contractors in a systematic effort to steal intellectual property and gain
strategic advantage.

The report adds urgency to talks expected to begin in July with the Chinese
about cyberissues. It does not discuss America's own considerable investment in
disruptive computer capabilities. These, too, must be on the agenda.

China's ambitions have been discussed on a background basis by senior officials
and were the subject of an earlier report by the computer security firm Mandiant
that was disclosed by The Times in February. The new report to Congress adds
depth and detail. Its clear purpose is to increase pressure on China to rein in
its hackers, who Mandiant has said, are largely run by Chinese Army officers or
are contractors working for military commands.

But for anyone broadly interested in the possibility of a global disruption
caused by government-directed hackers, the report suffers from one conspicuous
omission: It does not address America's own role in the expanding world of
cyberwarfare nor that of other countries with active programs, like Russia,
Britain and Israel. The report said that the primary goal of China's
cyberattacks on the United States was to steal industrial technology but that
many intrusions were designed to obtain insights into American policy makers'
thinking. The report also warned that information gathered on American defense
networks, logistics and military capabilities could be exploited during a
crisis.

The United States has spent billions of dollars defending its computer networks,
as it should. But, increasingly, it is also investing billions more in offensive
capabilities, including malware that can disrupt an adversary's networks like
the American-Israel Stuxnet virus did to Iran's nuclear program in 2010. Cyber
is one of the few growth areas in the military budget; Congress and the Obama
administration will need to take care that the Pentagon is not exploiting the
China threat to boost the budget even more to make up for other reductions.

One positive development is that China, after considerable resistance, now seems
willing to discuss cyberissues with the United States. The Americans seem intent
on keeping the focus on persuading Chinese officials to end attacks on
commercial and economic interests and to understand that, if they don't, it
would damage relations with the United States. It would be a mistake not to also
engage China, and other countries as well, on military-related issues, including
what constitutes cyberaggression and how governments should respond. The world
does not need a cyber arms race.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/05/08/opinion/china-and-cyberwar.html

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 10, 2013 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Hours, Thieves Took $45 Million in A.T.M. Scheme

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA; Nicole Perlroth, Frances Robles and Mosi Secret
contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1283 words


It was a brazen bank heist, but a 21st-century version in which the criminals
never wore ski masks, threatened a teller or set foot in a vault.

In two precision operations that involved people in more than two dozen
countries acting in close coordination and with surgical precision, thieves
stole $45 million from thousands of A.T.M.'s in a matter of hours.

In New York City alone, the thieves responsible for A.T.M. withdrawals struck
2,904 machines over 10 hours starting on Feb. 19, withdrawing $2.4 million.

The operation included sophisticated computer experts operating in the shadowy
world of Internet hacking, manipulating financial information with the stroke of
a few keys, as well as common street criminals, who used that information to
loot the automated teller machines.

The first to be caught was a street crew operating in New York, their pictures
captured as, prosecutors said, they traveled the city withdrawing money and
stuffing backpacks with cash.

On Thursday, federal prosecutors in Brooklyn unsealed an indictment charging
eight men -- including their suspected ringleader, who was found dead in the
Dominican Republic last month. The indictment and criminal complaints in the
case offer a glimpse into what the authorities said was one of the most
sophisticated and effective cybercrime attacks ever uncovered.

It was, prosecutors said, one of the largest heists in New York City history,
rivaling the 1978 Lufthansa robbery, which inspired a scene in the movie
''Goodfellas.''

Beyond the sheer amount of money involved, law enforcement officials said, the
thefts underscored the vulnerability of financial institutions around the world
to clever criminals working to stay a step ahead of the latest technologies
designed to thwart them.

''In the place of guns and masks, this cybercrime organization used laptops and
the Internet,'' said Loretta E. Lynch, the United States attorney in Brooklyn.
''Moving as swiftly as data over the Internet, the organization worked its way
from the computer systems of international corporations to the streets of New
York City, with the defendants fanning out across Manhattan to steal millions of
dollars from hundreds of A.T.M.'s in a matter of hours.''

The indictment outlined how the criminals were able to steal data from banks,
relay that information to a far-flung network of so-called cashing crews, and
then have the stolen money laundered in purchases of luxury items like Rolex
watches and expensive cars.

In the first operation, hackers infiltrated the system of an unnamed Indian
credit-card processing company that handles Visa and MasterCard prepaid debit
cards. Such companies are attractive to cybercriminals because they are
considered less secure than financial institutions, computer security experts
say.

The hackers, who are not named in the indictment, then raised the withdrawal
limits on prepaid MasterCard debit accounts issued by the National Bank of Ras
Al-Khaimah, also known as RakBank, which is in United Arab Emirates.

Once the withdrawal limits have been eliminated, ''even a few compromised bank
account numbers can result in tremendous financial loss to the victim financial
institution,'' the indictment states. And by using prepaid cards, the thieves
were able to take money without draining the bank accounts of individuals, which
might have set off alarms more quickly.

With five account numbers in hand, the hackers distributed the information to
individuals in 20 countries who then encoded the information on magnetic-stripe
cards. On Dec. 21, the cashing crews made 4,500 A.T.M. transactions worldwide,
stealing $5 million, according to the indictment.

While the street crews were taking money out of bank machines, the computer
experts were watching the financial transactions from afar, ensuring that they
would not be shortchanged on their cut, according to court documents.

MasterCard alerted the Secret Service to the activity soon after the
transactions were completed, said a law enforcement official, who declined to be
identified discussing a continuing investigation.

Robert D. Rodriguez, a special agent with the Secret Service for 22 years and
now the chairman of Security Innovation Network, said that in some ways the
crime was as old as money itself: bad guys trying to find weaknesses in a system
and exploiting that weakness.

''The difference today is that the dynamics of the Internet and cyberspace are
so fast that we have a hard time staying ahead of the adversary,'' he said. And
because these crimes are global, he said, even when the authorities figure out
who is behind them they might not be able to arrest them or persuade another law
enforcement agency to take action.

After pulling off the December theft, the organization grew more bold, and two
months later it struck again -- this time nabbing $40 million.

On Feb. 19, cashing crews were in place at A.T.M.'s across Manhattan and in two
dozen other countries waiting for word to spring into action.

This time, the hackers had infiltrated a credit-card processing company based in
the United States that also handles Visa and MasterCard prepaid debit cards.
Prosecutors did not disclose the company's name.

After securing 12 account numbers for cards issued by the Bank of Muscat in Oman
and raising the withdrawal limits, the cashing crews were set in motion.
Starting at 3 p.m., the crews made 36,000 transactions and withdrew about $40
million from machines in the various countries in about 10 hours. In New York
City, a team of eight people made 2,904 withdrawals, stealing $2.4 million.

Surveillance photos of one suspect at various A.T.M.'s showed the man's backpack
getting heavier and heavier, Ms. Lynch said, comparing the series of thefts to
the caper at the center of the movie ''Ocean's Eleven.''

While the New York crew had a productive spree, the crews in Japan seem to have
been the most successful, stealing around $10 million, probably because some
banks in Japan allow withdrawals of as much as $10,000 from a single bank
machine.

''The significance here is they are manipulating the financial system to be able
to change these balance limits and withdrawal limits,'' said Kim Peretti, a
former prosecutor in the computer crime division of the Justice Department who
is now a partner in the law firm Alston & Bird. ''When you have a scheme like
this, where the system can be manipulated to quickly get access to millions of
dollars that in some sense did not exist before, it could be a systemic risk to
our financial system.''

It was unclear to whom the hacked accounts belonged, and who might ultimately be
responsible for the losses.

The indictment suggests a far-reaching operation, but there were few details
about the people responsible for conducting the hacking or who might be leading
the global operation. Law enforcement agencies in more than a dozen countries
are still investigating, according to federal prosecutors. The authorities said
the leader of the New York cashing crew was Alberto Lajud-Peña, 23, whose body
was found in the Dominican Republic late last month. Seven other people were
charged with conspiracy to commit ''access device fraud'' and money laundering.

The prosecutors said they were all American citizens and were based in Yonkers.
The age of one defendant was given as 35; the others were all said to be 22 to
24. Mr. Lajud-Peña fled the United States just as the authorities were starting
to make arrests of members of his crew, the law enforcement official said.

On April 27, according to news reports from the Dominican Republic, two hooded
gunmen stormed a house where he was playing dominoes and began shooting. A
manila envelope containing about $100,000 in cash remained untouched.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/05/10/nyregion/eight-charged-in-45-million-global-
cyber-bank-thefts.html

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Elvis Rafael Rodriguez, left, and Emir Yasser Yeje, who were
indicted in Brooklyn on Thursday, posed in March with what federal prosecutors
said was about $40,000 in stolen money. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED STATES ATTORNEY'S
OFFICE, EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK) (A1)
   Loretta E. Lynch, the United States attorney in Brooklyn, said on Thursday
that conspirators in a  global ''cybercrime organization'' used hacked data to
make thousands of A.T.M. withdrawals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS)
(A26) MAP: Putting a Face on a 6-Hour Spree:  A map and surveillance photos
provided by federal prosecutors show one thief withdrawing some of the $2.4
million stolen from 2,904 automated teller machines in New York City in about 10
hours starting on Feb. 19. (Source: U.S. Attorney) (A26)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                              May 10, 2013 Friday

Daily Report: International A.T.M. Theft Takes $45 Million

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 273 words



HIGHLIGHT: The authorities said suspects used laptops and the Internet in more
than two dozen countries to steal from A.T.M.&#8217;s, including 2,904 machines
in New York, in a single day, Marc Santora reports in The New York Times..


It was a huge bank heist - but a 21st-century version in which the robbers never
wore ski masks, threatened a teller or set foot in a vault, Marc Santora
reportsin The New York Times.

In two precision operations that involved people in more than two dozen
countries acting in close coordination and with surgical precision, the
organization was able to steal $45 million from thousands of A.T.M.'s in a
matter of hours.

In New York alone, the thieves responsible for A.T.M. withdrawals struck 2,904
machines over 10 hours on Feb. 19, withdrawing $2.4 million.

On Thursday, federal prosecutors in Brooklyn unsealed an indictment charging
eight members of the New York crew - including their suspected ringleader, who
was found dead in the Dominican Republic on April 27 - offering a glimpse into
what the authorities said was one of the most sophisticated and effective
cybercrime attacks ever uncovered.

"In the place of guns and masks, this cybercrime organization used laptops and
the Internet," said Loretta E. Lynch, the United States attorney in Brooklyn.
"Moving as swiftly as data over the Internet, the organization worked its way
from the computer systems of international corporations to the streets of New
York City, with the defendants fanning out across Manhattan to steal millions of
dollars from hundreds of A.T.M.'s in a matter of hours."


     ·    Energy Department Is the Latest Victim of an Online Attack
     ·    Security Firm Discovers Cyber-Spy Campaign
     ·    Serious Flaw in Java Software Is Found, Then Patched
     ·    Cyber Attacks From Iran and Gaza on Israel More Threatening Than
          Anonymous's Efforts
     ·    Disruptions: Twitter's Uneasy Role in Guarding the Truth


LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Best Sellers: Paperback Graphic Books: Sunday, May 12th 2013

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 459 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the May 12, 2013 print
edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending April 27, 2013.
An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from
those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that some retailers report
receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit
http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Paperback Graphic
           Books
This    On
Week  List
1       89 THE WALKING DEAD COMPENDIUM, VOL. 1,  by Robert Kirkman and
           others. (Image Comics, $59.99.) This massive collected edition
           - over 1,000 pages - reprints the first 48 issues of ?The
           Walking Dead.?
2       29 THE WALKING DEAD COMPENDIUM, VOL. 2,  by Robert Kirkman and
           Charlie Adlard. (Image Comics, $59.99.) This collected edition,
           of issues 49-96, follows Rick and his group of survives as they
           try to stay alive ? with zombies and some humans against them.
3        1 SMALLVILLE SEASON 11, VOL. 1,  by Bryan Q. Miller and Pere
           Perez. (DC Comics, $14.99.) This series picks up six months
           after the television show ended: Clark Kent is in his Superman
           costume and coming to terms with his new identity.
4        2 DARK TOWER: TREACHERY,  by Robin Furth and Peter David. (Marvel
           Entertainment, $19.99.) This comic series explores the world
           set forth by Stephen King's "Dark Tower" novels. The secret of
           evil Maerlyn's Grapefruit are costing Roland his health.
5        1 DIAL H, VOL. 1,  by China Mieville and Mateus Santolouco. (DC
           Comics, $14.99.) A man discovers a device that can temporarily
           give him super (and strange) abilities. But what will happen
           when the others interested in the device come after him?
6       20 SAGA, VOL. 1,  by Brian K. Vaughan and Fiona Staples. (Image
           Comics, $9.99.) This sci-fi fantasy series follows a newly
           married couple as they try to raise their child while avoiding
           robots, bounty hunters and an intergalactic war.
7       16 AVATAR: THE LAST AIRBENDER, PART 2,  by Gene Luen Yang and
           others. (Dark Horse, $10.99.) This series explores the world of
           "Avatar: The Last Airbender" from where the animated film left
           off.
8        1 BIRDS OF PREY, VOL. 2,  by Duane Swierczynski and Travel
           Foreman. (DC Comics, $14.99.) This team of heroines has
           troubles ahead: they must battle the Court of Owls and journey
           to the Amazon after Poison Ivy is injured.
9        3 PUNK ROCK JESUS,  by Sean Murphy. (DC Comics, $16.99.) From the
           publisher: "A reality TV show starring a clone of Jesus Christ
           causes chaos across the U.S. of the near future."
10       1 WHO IS AC?,  by Hope Larson and Tintin Pantoja. (Atheneum Books
           for Young Readers, $14.99.) Lin is a teenage girl who finds
           herself learning to use her new found abilities and in conflict
           with a cyber-menace.

URL:

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pilotless Planes, Pacific Tensions

BYLINE: By RICHARD PARKER.

Richard Parker, a journalist, is the author of the forthcoming book
''Unblinking: Rise of the Modern Superdrones.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 830 words


AUSTIN, Tex.

THIS week the Navy will launch an entirely autonomous combat drone -- without a
pilot on a joystick anywhere -- off the deck of an aircraft carrier, the George
H. W. Bush. The drone will then try to land aboard the same ship, a feat only a
relatively few human pilots in the world can accomplish.

This exercise is the beginning of a new chapter in military history: autonomous
drone warfare. But it is also an ominous turn in a potentially dangerous
military rivalry now building between the United States and China.

The X-47B, a stealth plane nicknamed ''the Robot'' by Navy crews, is a big bird
-- 38 feet long, with a 62-foot wingspan -- that flies at high subsonic speeds
with a range of over 2,000 miles. But it is the technology inside the Robot that
makes it a game-changer in East Asia. Its entirely computerized takeoff, flight
and landing raise the possibility of dozens or hundreds of its successors
engaged in combat at once.

It is also capable of withstanding radiation levels that would kill a human
pilot and destroy a regular jet's electronics: in addition to conventional
bombs, successors to this test plane could be equipped to carry a high-power
microwave, a device that emits a burst of radiation that would fry a tech-savvy
enemy's power grids, knocking out everything connected to it, including computer
networks that connect satellites, ships and precision-guided missiles.

And these, of course, are among the key things China has invested in during its
crash-course military modernization. While the United States Navy is launching
an autonomous drone, the Chinese Navy is playing catch-up with piloted carrier
flight. Last November the Chinese Navy landed a J-15 jet fighter on the deck of
the Liaoning aircraft carrier, the country's first carrier landing.

Though China still has miles to go in developing a carrier fleet to rival
America's, the landing demonstrates its ambitions. With nearly half a million
sailors and fast approaching 1,000 vessels, its navy is by some measures already
the second largest in the world.

With that new navy, Beijing seeks to project its power over a series of island
chains far into the Pacific: the first extends southward from the Korean
Peninsula, down the eastern shore of Taiwan, encircling the South China Sea,
while the second runs southeast from Japan to the Bonin and Marshall Islands,
encompassing both the Northern Mariana Islands, a United States territory, and
Guam -- the key American base in the western Pacific. Some unofficial Chinese
military literature even refers to a third chain: the Hawaiian Islands.

To project this kind of power, China must rely not only on the quantity of its
ships but also on the quality of its technology. Keeping the Americans half an
ocean away requires the capability for long-range precision strikes -- which, in
turn, require the satellite reconnaissance, cyber warfare, encrypted
communications and computer networks in which China has invested nearly $100
billion over the last decade.

Ideally for both countries, China's efforts would create a new balance of power
in the region. But to offset China's numerical advantage and technological
advances, the United States Navy is betting heavily on drones -- not just the
X-47B and its successors, but anti-submarine reconnaissance drones, long-range
communications drones, even underwater drones. A single hunter-killer pairing of
a Triton reconnaissance drone and a P-8A Poseidon piloted anti-submarine plane
can sweep 2.7 million square miles of ocean in a single mission.

The arms race between the world's largest navies undermines the likelihood of
attaining a new balance of power, and raise the possibility of unintended
collisions as the United States deploys hundreds, even thousands of drones and
China scrambles for ways to counter the new challenge. And drones, because they
are cheap and don't need a human pilot, lower the bar for aggressive behavior on
the part of America's military leaders -- as they will for China's navy, as soon
as it makes its own inevitable foray into drone capabilities (indeed, there were
reports last week that China was preparing its own stealth drone for flight
tests).

By themselves, naval rivalries do not start wars. During peacetime, in fact,
naval operations are a form of diplomacy, which provide rivals with healthy
displays of force that serve as deterrents to war. But they have to be enveloped
in larger political relationships, too.

At present, the United States-China relationship is really just about economics.
As long as that relationship remains vibrant, confrontation is in neither
country's interest. But should that slender reed snap, there is little in the
way of a larger political relationship, let alone alliance, to take its place.
The only thing between crisis and conflict, then, would be two ever larger, more
dangerous navies, prepared to fight a breed of drone-centric war we don't yet
fully understand, and so are all the more likely to fall into.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/05/13/opinion/drones-and-the-rivalry-between-the-us-
and-china.html

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cyberattacks on the Rise Against U.S. Corporations

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and NICOLE PERLROTH; David E. Sanger reported from
Washington, and Nicole Perlroth from San Francisco. Michael S. Schmidt
contributed reporting from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1093 words


WASHINGTON -- A new wave of cyberattacks is striking American corporations,
prompting warnings from federal officials, including a vague one issued last
week by the Department of Homeland Security. This time, officials say, the
attackers' aim is not espionage but sabotage, and the source seems to be
somewhere in the Middle East.

The targets have primarily been energy companies, and the attacks appeared to be
probes, looking for ways to seize control of their processing systems. The
attacks are continuing, officials said. But two senior administration officials
said Sunday that they were still not certain exactly where the attacks were
coming from, or whether they were state-sponsored or the work of hackers or
criminals.

''We are concerned by these intrusions, and we are trying to make sure they
don't lead to something much bigger, as they did in the Saudi case,'' said one
senior American official. He was referring to the aggressive attack last summer
that affected 30,000 computers at Saudi Aramco, one of the world's largest oil
producers. After lengthy investigations, American officials concluded that Iran
had been behind the Saudi Aramco attack.

Another official said that in the new wave of attacks, ''most everything we have
seen is coming from the Middle East,'' but he did not say whether Iran, or
another country, appeared to be the source.

Last week's warning was unusual because most attacks against American companies
-- especially those coming from China -- have been attempts to obtain
confidential information, steal trade secrets and gain competitive advantage. By
contrast, the new attacks seek to destroy data or to manipulate industrial
machinery and take over or shut down the networks that deliver energy or run
industrial processes.

That kind of attack is much more like the Stuxnet worm that the United States
and Israel secretly used against Iran's nuclear enrichment plants several years
ago, to slow Iran's progress toward a nuclear weapons capability. When that
covert program began, President Obama, among other officials, expressed worry
that its eventual discovery could prompt retaliatory attacks.

Two senior officials who have been briefed on the new intrusions say they were
aimed largely at the administrative systems of about 10 major American energy
firms, which they would not name. That is similar to what happened to Saudi
Aramco, where a computer virus wiped data from office computers, but never
succeeded in making the leap to the industrial control systems that run oil
production.

The Washington Post first reported the security warning on Friday. Over the
weekend the Obama administration described what had led to the warning. Those
officials began describing the activity as ''probes that suggest someone is
looking at how to take control of these systems.''

According to one United States official, Homeland Security officials decided to
release the warning once they saw how deeply intruders had managed to penetrate
corporate systems, including one that deals with chemical processes. In the
past, the government occasionally approached individual companies it believed
were under threat. Last week's warning ''is an effort to make sure that the
volume and timeliness of the information improves,'' in line with a new
executive order signed by the president, one senior official said.

The warning was issued by an agency called ICS-Cert, which monitors attacks on
computer systems that run industrial processes. It said the government was
''highly concerned about hostility against critical infrastructure
organizations,'' and included a link to a previous warning about Shamoon, the
virus used in the Saudi Aramco attack last year. It also hinted that federal
investigations were under way, referring to indications ''that adversary intent
extends beyond intellectual property to include use of cyber to disrupt business
and control systems.''

At Saudi Aramco, the virus replaced company data on thousands of computers with
an image of a burning American flag. The attack prompted the defense secretary
at the time, Leon E. Panetta, to warn of an impending ''cyber 9/11'' if the
United States did not respond more efficiently to attacks. American officials
have since concluded the attack and a subsequent one at RasGas, the Qatari
energy company, were the work of Iranian hackers. Israeli officials, who follow
Iran closely, said in interviews this month that they thought the attacks were
the work of Iran's new ''cybercorps,'' organized after the cyberattacks that
affected their nuclear facilities.

Saudi Aramco said that while the attackers had attempted to penetrate its oil
production systems, they had failed because the company maintained a separation
between employees' administrative computers and the computers used to control
and monitor production. RasGas said the attack on its computers had failed for
the same reason.

But there are no clear standards for computer security, and the Homeland
Security warning last week urged companies to take steps many computer
professionals already advise. The suggestions were for ''things most everyone
should be doing on an everyday basis,'' said Dan McWhorter, the managing
director of threat intelligence at Mandiant Corporation. His company conducted a
study this year that identified a specific unit of the Chinese Army as the
source of a number of attacks on American businesses and government
organizations. ''These are all threats people have been seeing coming for some
time,'' he said.

Still, the warning underscored that most of the likely targets in the United
States, including cellphone networks and electric utility grids, are in private
rather than government hands. ''The challenge will be managing our nation's
offensive and defensive capabilities,'' said Evan D. Wolff, a partner at Hunton
& Williams, who runs the firm's homeland security practice and focuses on
cyberissues. ''Unlike conventional weapons, this will require a very broad
engagement across the private sector.''

For the last four years, the Department of Homeland Security has said it needs
to expand its cybersecurity force by as many as 600 hacking specialists to keep
pace with the rising number of threats. But in the last four months, the
department has been grappling with an exodus of top officials, including Jane
Holl Lute, the agency's deputy secretary; Mark Weatherford, the department's top
cybersecurity official; Michael Locatis, the assistant secretary for
cybersecurity; and Richard Spires, the agency's chief information officer, all
of whom resigned.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/05/13/us/cyberattacks-on-rise-against-us-corporation
s.html

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                              May 13, 2013 Monday

Tough Times at Homeland Security

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 585 words



HIGHLIGHT: As a new wave of cyberattacks hits American companies, the Department
of Homeland Security has many top leadership posts to fill.


A new wave of cyberattacks is hitting American companies at a particularly
vulnerable time for the Department of Homeland Security, the federal agency
charged with fending them off.

That is because the department has been grappling with the departures of its top
cybersecurity officials. In the last four months, Jane Holl Lute, the agency's
deputy secretary; Mark Weatherford, the top cybersecurity official; Michael
Locatis, the assistant secretary for cybersecurity; and Richard Spires, the
chief information officer, have all resigned.

Candidates currently being considered to fill their posts include Beltway
officials and executives from the antivirus software makers Symantec and McAfee,
according to people briefed on their professional backgrounds who were not
authorized to speak publicly about the department's hiring process. But these
people said the leading candidates lacked critical ties to Silicon Valley and to
the hacking community from which Homeland Security has said it so urgently needs
to recruit.

For the last four years, the department has said it needs to expand its
cybersecurity force by as many as 600 skilled hackers if it is to keep pace with
the influx of increasingly sophisticated threats.

"We need students," Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security, told
students at San Jose State University last year. "We need young people who
really understand this technology who are creative and innovative."

But in the last 10 years, most students who graduated from the CyberCorps
Scholarship for Service program, a National Science Foundation program that
awards scholarships to students with cyberskills in exchange for a federal
service commitment, went to the National Security Agency, where they work on
offensive missions. At Homeland Security, the emphasis is on keeping hackers
out, or playing defense.

Ms. Napolitano convened a 15-person task force last year to figure out how to
attract more students. The task force included security experts from Facebook,
the N.S.A. and the Idaho National Laboratory, the Energy Department's lead
nuclear research center. Its co-chairman was Alan Paller, director of research
at the SANS Institute, a security training organization, and Jeff Moss, founder
of the well-known Black Hat and Def Con annual hacking conventions in Las Vegas.

Among their recommendations: Make Homeland Security cool again by partnering
with the organizers of hacking competitions, whose participants would much
prefer to "move fast and break things" at Facebook or Twitter or Google, than
cut through red tape at the Department of Homeland Security.

To make the department more than a bureaucratic afterthought, people inside the
agency say they hope it will fill one of its top vacancies with a hacker "rock
star" not unlike Mr. Moss, whose Las Vegas conferences annually draw the best
minds in computer security, or Peiter Zatko, the hacker better known as Mudge,
who recently left his position at the Pentagon's Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency, or Darpa, for Google.

"Where is cyber at D.H.S. right now?" one person at the agency remarked. "Who is
minding the shop? And what have we been talking about for the past four years?"


     ·    Daily Report: Luring Young Web Warriors Is a U.S. Priority. It's Also
          a Game.
     ·    One on One: Nolan Bushnell, Video Game Legend and Steve Jobs's Boss
     ·    Cyberattacks a Topic in Obama Call With New Chinese President
     ·    Obama Discusses Computer Security With Corporate Chiefs
     ·    Daily Report: Broad Powers Seen for Obama in Cyberstrike


LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 19, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid to Be Good

BYLINE: By HELEN SCHULMAN.

Helen Schulman's most recent novel is ''This Beautiful Life.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1058 words


THE HUMANITY PROJECTBy Jean Thompson

337 pp. Blue Rider Press. $26.95.

Linnea is a good kid from a home that lies somewhere in that wide gray zone
between stable and chaotic, more dysfunctional than not -- in other words, an
emblematic American household. Her stepdad is ''O.K.,'' her younger half-brother
is ''pretty cool,'' her stepsister is a mean girl and a bully; but Linnea loves
her mom, and since she can't remember her feckless, long-lost father, she
doesn't really miss him. Theirs is a typical blended family, so sadly
representative that the nightmare that demolishes their relative peace and turns
Linnea into an unreachable, volatile teenager is a school shooting -- a
signature American tragedy. Suffice it to say that the details of that awful day
are blood-chilling and unbearable. As survivors go, Linnea is especially
unlucky. She's earned her trauma, and she wears it like a badge.

Conner is also a good kid, also a product of a failed marriage, who has elected
to stick by his down-on-his-luck dad, an unemployed carpenter whose house is in
foreclosure. Their functional dysfunctional home is destroyed by another
exemplary symptom of modern American dislocation and unhappiness: a cyber-date
gone horrendously wrong. Lonely, horny, desperate for relief from his many
bankruptcies, the dad had managed to find a woman in even deeper trouble, and
their encounter leaves him maimed in body and in spirit, with poor Conner left
to pick up the pieces.

That Linnea and Conner meet (not cute) and become entwined (not in the ways one
might expect) seems both calculated and still oddly organic, largely because of
their creator's sharp lens and generous heart. She loves them, warts and all,
and we do, too -- pretty much a good thing, since at the start no one is on
their sides but us.

''The Humanity Project'' is Jean Thompson's sixth novel, and it is a forthright
piece of social criticism in which children are victims of both their dreadful
peers and their parents' immaturity, and parents are victims of the times: the
economy, the government, the banks, their own predilections for OxyContin and
alcohol, the contemporary culture's lack of -- Thompson's titular word --
humanity. Thompson is also an accomplished story writer, and she presents this
novel as a bleak yet strangely charming series of storylike chapters -- complete
mini-narratives from a kaleidoscopic range of points of view, often ending with
a cliffhanger -- revolving not only around the friendship between Conner and
Linnea, but also around Linnea's reunion with her hapless father, Art, a
part-time academic who is forced into late-breaking parenthood when Linnea's
mother gives up on her.

Conner, Linnea, Art, his downstairs neighbor Christie (a nurse and sort of
Buddhist) and Christie's patient, Mrs. Foster (an off-her-rocker wealthy widow),
all live in haute-hippie Mill Valley, Calif. Their various stories bump into one
another and weave in and out like a litter of kittens between a kibble-bearer's
legs. This piece of the world is as high-low a macrocosm as any: ''One of those
odd mixes of wealth and distress. The truly rich had houses up in the hills,
while those like himself got by in their odd corners. People in tennis clothes
drank white wine in the restaurants at 1 o'clock in the afternoon. But in the
parking lot adjacent to Art's apartment building, a man had lived for some
months in a huge stationary white Lincoln.''

This novel explores aspects of almost all our national modern ills -- bullying,
school shootings, the dangers of cyber-hookups, homelessness, the housing
­crises, income disparity, crazy-rich-person philanthropy -- and has enough
chance interactions to make Dickens blush. It is ambitious and largely
captivating, and many of the passages, especially those describing the Bay Area,
are luscious and evocative (this reader Googled airfares between the chapters).
What I'm describing sounds like an epic novel but is a very readable
300-something pages. The cumulative effect of all its hot-button topics,
however, is somewhat confusing. Is this satire or realism? Sometimes farce?

The centripetal force for all of these struggling characters turns out to be the
batty Mrs. Foster. She decides she wants to spend part of her husband's fortune
establishing a foundation, the Humanity Project, and she offers Nurse Christie a
great deal of money to run it. Mrs. Foster's vision: ''We could pay people to be
good'' -- bribery as philanthropy.

This satirical notion departs from the sometimes moving pathos of the earlier
sections, with the story plunging into a bit of wacky fun at the expense of
would-be do-gooders and their enablers, the people who make money off
foundations and corporations, like lawyers and caterers. It also allows for a
rollicking set piece, again tonally divergent, toward the end of the book: a
two-day conference titled ''Investing in Our Better Selves,'' where the speeches
and discussion groups have Onion-worthy names: ''Learning From the Rural Poor of
India.'' ''How Nonprofits Can Profit.'' ''What We Talk About When We Talk About
Wealth.'' And ''Hard Times and Social Pathology.''

I'm not David Brooks, with his taste for looking at the world through ­binary
­glasses. But if I were, I might say that readers fall into two camps, those who
relish the way coincidence brings a cast of characters to their knees and then
into one another's arms, and those who will find this novel's myriad connections
a bit too convenient and the resulting resolutions too tidy. I'd fall into Camp
2 myself, but I recognize the pleasures of Camp 1. I also recognize from my top
bunk across the lake the originality of some of the twists and turns that bring
these children of Job to a place where one spies hope. Thompson is a writer
attuned to the callousness of 21st-century society, its comedic elements, its
misguided efforts to right itself, its often tragic results. She's culled the
news and integrated it into her text, sometimes shooting ducks in a barrel and
other times mining her characters' complex circumstances to shed light on their
embittered souls. They are to a certain degree archetypes; they also exhibit
vast reserves of strength and endurance. There's real beauty in the way Thompson
has them serve one another, even if that loving service is often not enough. It
is, however, deeply human.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/05/19/books/review/the-humanity-project-by-jean-thom
pson.html

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KELSEY DAKE)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              May 20, 2013 Monday

White House Sets U.S.-China Summit for California in June

BYLINE: PETER BAKER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 519 words



HIGHLIGHT: President Obama plans to meet President Xi Jinping of China next
month for the first time since Mr. Xi&#8217;s installation as the Chinese
leader, as the two men try to address critical issues like North Korea, the
global economy and allegations of state-sponsored cyber attacks.


President Obama plans to meet President Xi Jinping of China next month for the
first time since Mr. Xi's installation as the leader of the world's most
populous nation, as the two leaders try to establish a working relationship on
critical issues like North Korea, the global economy and allegations of
state-sponsored cyber attacks, the White House announced on Monday.

Mr. Obama and Mr. Xi will meet on June 7 and 8 at Sunnylands, the Walter and
Leonore Annenberg estate in Southern California, the White House said. Mr. Obama
already had travel scheduled on the West Coast at that time, officials said, so
they decided that Sunnylands, a less formal setting, would provide a better
environment for the two men to get to know each other. To prepare for the
meeting, Thomas E. Donilon, the president's national security adviser, will
travel to Beijing from May 26 to 28.

"The U.S.-China agenda is big and complex, and we have a lot of issues to
discuss and work though," said Caitlin Hayden, a spokeswoman for the White
House. "As we have said before, the relationship has elements of cooperation and
elements of competition. We have no illusions about this. Our approach to China
seeks to expand the areas of cooperation in managing regional and global
challenges, and we seek to manage our differences in a way that prevents
disruptive and unhealthy competition from undermining our interests and those of
our allies in Asia."

The meeting will come at a significant moment for the United States and China.
As a recent flurry of threats from North Korea underscored, Mr. Obama is
encouraging China to play a greater role in restraining the erratic conduct of
its isolated neighbor. Moreover, China holds about $1.25 trillion in United
States debt, more than any other foreign country, but its share of total debt
has fallen in recent years to 7 percent from 10 percent, easing American
reliance on Beijing.

As for cyber technology issues, the United States has accused China of
state-sponsored cyber attacks that it believes have led to the theft of billions
of dollars in intellectual property and government documents.

The meeting with Mr. Xi in California will be part of a busy few weeks in
foreign relations for Mr. Obama. He plans to attend the Group of Eight summit
meeting in Belfast, Northern Ireland, in mid-June, where he will meet with
longtime allies as well as President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. On Monday, the
White House announced that Mr. Obama will make a weeklong journey to Africa
starting in late June.

Sunnylands, a sprawling estate more than 100 miles east of Los Angeles, has
played host to seven American presidents, as well as members of Congress,
Supreme Court justices, Queen Elizabeth II and other members of the British
royal family, and Hollywood figures like Bob Hope, Frank Sinatra, Jimmy Stewart
and Ginger Rogers, according to its Web site.


     ·    Myanmar's President to Visit White House
     ·    Foreign Policy Debate Puts Focus on Leadership
     ·    Monday's Debate Puts Focus on Foreign Policy Clashes
     ·    Filing Trade Suit, Obama Raps Romney on China
     ·    Romney Goes After Obama on Defense Cuts and Information Leaks


LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Swindles and Spam, Lurking in Your Search Results

BYLINE: By AZADEH ENSHA

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Personal Tech; TOOL KIT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1136 words


Most of our ventures onto the Web still begin with a search -- a fact readily
exploited by spammers and swindlers who rely on excessive use of keywords, link
exchanging and other manipulation techniques to push their content higher in the
list of search results, hoping you will click on them.

Though the major search engines discourage such deception, that hasn't stopped
companies from engaging in such practices -- and fooling users in the process.

Even someone with decades of search expertise, like Duane Forrester, a senior
product manager at Bing, can fall victim to a Web scam.

''I was looking to buy a new lens for a digital camera, and I found a store that
had one for $200 less than everyone else,'' Mr. Forrester said. ''Turns out the
store was a fly-by-night shop out of the U.K. that sold broken products. I
called the company and got my refund, but I still fell into the pothole.''

Millions of ''dirty'' sites litter the Web. The Web security firm Blue Coat
Systems concluded in its 2012 security report that search engines topped the
list of spam entry points, before e-mail and other sources. At a minimum,
off-topic spam results are a nuisance. More perniciously, spammers can infect
computers with malware and phish for sensitive personal data like credit card
information. Here are some ways to avoid search spam.

LEARN TO SPOT SPAM Mastering the art of smarter searching won't always shield
you from getting spammed. That is why, as a first step, you should look before
you click.

Don't assume that the top results are the most useful or even the safest. Look
at the letters that follow the period at the end of a Web address. Top-level
domains like .com and .info, as well as top-level country code domains like .fr
(for France) are prime targets for spammers.

One reason is that spammers know that spelling mistakes happen. It's common to
forget the ''o'' in a dot-com search, for instance. So if you want a site that
ends in .com, but mistakenly type in .cm (the country code for Cameroon), you
might get spam instead of the page you wanted.

Many sites will also take advantage of Web address shorteners like Bitly to
direct you to an unsavory source. So be cautious about clicking those truncated
URLs as well.

Both Google and Bing tip searchers off to potentially unsafe sites, wherever
possible. If a search engine warns you that a site is potentially unsafe, browse
at your own risk. And as Mr. Forrester's tale shows, a site that is offering
discounts that appear too good to be true may indeed be offering deals too good
to be true.

In addition, before making any purchase on a lesser-known site, take a look
around. Do you see a listed address? If so, map it. Look for the e-mail address.
If your only contact option is a Gmail or Yahoo account, something may be awry.

A site's language, too, may be a giveaway, especially when you are conducting a
local search.

Flagrant grammar and spelling errors may signal that the owner is based
elsewhere. And if you spot the term ''free'' scrawled across a Web site, proceed
with caution.

SOME SITES ARE RISKIER It is important to know what separates a potential spam
site from a harmless one. The difference may be counterintuitive. For example,
pornography domains may be safer to browse than some mainstream content.
According to Cisco's 2013 annual security report, ''online advertisements are
182 times more likely to deliver malicious content than pornographic sites.''

Matt Cutts, who heads the Web spam team at Google, said this was because
pornography sites were well monitored. ''People who run porn sites are
tech-savvy, and they pay a lot of attention to visitors, so they notice unusual
things quickly,'' he said.

Though a search result may be safe, it may not be useful. A prime example is
Yahoo Answers. The community-driven site consistently ranks high across the
major engines on question-related queries. But the quality of its answers varies
greatly and the site is often more useful for a chuckle than legitimate insight.
Learn to spot and selectively skip these sites.

Similarly, instructional sites like eHow may place a higher premium on quantity
over quality content, so you might not find exactly what you are searching for
there.

Be wary of Web pages that oversell you on their supposed legitimacy. One Better
Business Bureau logo is fine. A series of logos promoting a site's
professionalism or expertise is a red flag.

Almost anyone with rudimentary Photoshop skills can create and attach fake logos
on to a site. You can crosscheck any awards by going to the source.

It is also a good idea to check whether a Web site is certified. The Department
of Homeland Security offers more information on this.

SOME SEARCHES ATTRACT SPAM Some searches are more enticing to spammers than
others. Credit report queries are a top target. Remember, there are only three
major national credit agencies. If you are using an outside party to check
credit reports, do so carefully.

Be extra cautious when conducting travel and insurance searches. Some sites
create travel tips for the express purpose of drawing you into their hotel or
other travel-related business. It is best to seek out travel information from a
more trusted site.

Search results for lyrics, videos and screen savers also pose an increased risk.
For example, pages with downloadable content, like those offering ring tones,
provide an enticing built-in audience for spammers because the user is actively
looking to install software.

When you search also matters. Spammers tend to come out in force on Cyber Monday
and other big shopping periods.

Nor is spam limited to text. A site with many broken image links may be designed
that way intentionally. It is easier to sell an outdated model if customers
don't see the product. Use a reverse image search service like TinEye to find
out if an image has been pulled from another site.

BEEF UP YOUR BROWSER As the search leader, Google is targeted more than any
other engine. Chrome users can install a spam extension that lets users identify
potential spam sites and block them from their search results by clicking on a
''spam'' text link next to each result.

You can also change your Google ad settings and opt out of the company's
advertising cookies.

SEEK OUT CUSTOM ENGINES Another way to avoid getting spam -- and to get more
relevant results -- is to go directly to a specialized search engine, where the
results are already filtered for your query.

You could go to Google Books for book searches and know you will more likely get
book results for ''The Great Gatsby,'' say, and not offers for ''Gatsby''
T-shirts. There are also engines like Science.gov and Scirus -- both useful for
science-related queries. Another valuable specialized engine is iSEEK Education.
Lastly, you can use the image service Picsearch to filter photo searches.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/05/23/technology/personaltech/how-to-detect-swindles
-and-spam-lurking-in-your-search-results.html

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 24, 2013 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Cyberattack Campaign for Syria

BYLINE: By CHRIS FINAN.

Chris Finan, a former adviser to the Obama administration on cybersecurity, is a
consultant for the Department of Defense and a fellow at the Truman National
Security Project.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 663 words


WASHINGTON -- LAST week Syrians lost access to the Internet for the second time
in a month. While the Assad regime claims the lapses were the result of a faulty
network link, the evidence suggests that they were deliberate efforts by the
government to hamper the opposition's ability to communicate inside the country
and with the outside world.

As American policy makers debate additional measures to pressure President
Bashar al-Assad and aid moderate elements of the opposition, they should
consider a military cybercampaign to give Syrians the ability to communicate
freely online. Doing so would serve our strategic interests, while also
demonstrating a principled commitment to Internet freedom.

For example, through the military's new Cyber Command, we could create a digital
''safe haven,'' akin to physical safe havens for refugees, by deploying
long-distance Wi-Fi technologies along Syria's borders and in rebel-held areas
in coordination with vetted opposition groups. Platforms that enable
transmission of Wi-Fi signals over distances of up to 60 miles are already in
use in parts of South Asia and other rural markets.

With a guarantee of secure Internet access points, opposition groups would be
able to link their terrestrial and wireless networks with those of like-minded
groups. This would enable them to reach deeper into the country, giving broad
sections of the Syrian populace Internet access. And because the United States
would be able to monitor those networks, we could make sure that moderate
opposition elements would be the primary beneficiaries.

Subsequent actions could include measures to counter the Assad regime's capacity
to monitor opposition communications within the existing telecommunications
infrastructure.

All of this could be done without putting American boots on the ground: Cyber
Command specialists could monitor these opposition-held networks from afar to
counter any government attempts to interfere with them, while training moderate
opposition elements to be able to operate and protect their own digital
communications.

Anyone who doubts the power of open Internet access should consider Egypt.

After the fall of Hosni Mubarak's government, as Salafists sought control by
spreading propaganda through traditional media outlets, an Egyptian
cardiologist-turned-satirist, Bassem Youssef, began broadcasting YouTube clips
to expose their baseless claims. Today, Mr. Youssef's program is one of the most
popular in Egypt, and it is serving to carve out a niche in the country's
political discourse for Egyptians to question poor governance and radical
theology.

The Egyptian example also highlights the long-term role that such a
cyberstrategy could play in Syria once the regime falls. As in Egypt, the
country will enter a difficult period of political transition, during which
access to and control of digital communications will be vital. By ensuring that
the population has an open means of coordinating and having access to the
Internet, the United States could greatly further its goal of promoting moderate
views.

Indeed, this strategy should apply across the region, wherever the United States
is trying to influence political developments. Despots who would deny their
people the right of digital assembly should be shown that America will employ
elements of power in cyberspace, as in other domains, when our nation's
interests and values align.

A cybercampaign in Syria, by demonstrating superior American capabilities, would
also help deter those who may wish to conduct their own cyberattack against our
homeland in the future.

There are few good options available to address the Assad regime's slaughter of
its own people. But that doesn't mean the rest of the world is powerless. A
well-executed cybercampaign could greatly strengthen the opposition, undermine
the Syrian government, promote ideals of free speech and assembly, and help
shape the strategic environment in the region for years to come -- all at the
same time.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/05/24/opinion/a-cyberattack-campaign-for-syria.html

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 25, 2013 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Computer Attacks Traced to Iran, Officials Say

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 951 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- American officials and corporate security experts examining a
new wave of potentially destructive computer attacks striking American
corporations, especially energy firms, say they have tracked the attacks back to
Iran.

The targets have included several American oil, gas and electricity companies,
which government officials have refused to identify. The goal is not espionage,
they say, but sabotage. Government officials describe the attacks as probes
looking for ways to seize control of critical processing systems.

Investigators began looking at the attacks several months ago, and when the
Department of Homeland Security issued a vaguely worded warning this month, a
government official told The New York Times that ''most everything we have seen
is coming from the Middle East.''

Government officials and outside experts on Friday confirmed a report in The
Wall Street Journal that the source of the attacks had been narrowed to Iran.
They said the evidence was not specific enough to conclude with confidence that
the attacks were state-sponsored, but control over the Internet is so
centralized in Iran that they said it was hard to imagine the attacks being done
without government knowledge.

While the attackers have been unsuccessful to date, they have made enough
progress to prompt the Homeland Security warning, which compared the latest
threat to the computer virus that hit Saudi Aramco, the world's largest oil
producer, last year. After investigations, American officials concluded that the
Aramco attack, and a subsequent one at RasGas, the Qatari energy company, were
the work of Iran.

Taken together, officials say, the attacks suggest that Iran's hacking skills
have improved over the past 18 months. The Obama administration has been focused
on Iran because the attacks have given the Iranian government a way to retaliate
for tightened economic sanctions against it, and for the American and Israeli
program that aimed similar attacks, using a virus known as Stuxnet, on the
Natanz nuclear enrichment plant.

That effort, code-named Olympic Games, slowed Iran's progress for months, but
also prompted it to create what Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps calls
a cyber corps to defend the country.

This week Iran denied being the source of any attacks, and said it had been a
victim of American sabotage. In a letter to the editor of The Times, responding
to a May 12 article that reported on the new attacks' similarity to the Saudi
Aramco episode, Alireza Miryousefi, the head of the press office of the Iranian
mission to the United Nations, wrote that Iran ''never engaged in such attacks
against its Persian Gulf neighbors, with which Iran has maintained good
neighborly relations.''

''Unfortunately, wrongful acts such as authorizing the 2010 Stuxnet attack
against Iran have set a bad, and dangerous, precedent in breach of certain
principles of international law,'' he wrote.

American officials have not offered any technical evidence to back up their
assertions of Iranian authorship of the latest attacks, but they describe the
recent campaign as different from most attacks against American companies --
particularly those from China -- which quietly siphon off intellectual property
for competitive purposes.

The new attacks, officials say, were devised to destroy data and manipulate the
machinery that operates critical control systems, like oil pipelines. One
official described them as ''probes that suggest someone is looking at how to
take control of these systems.''

The White House would not confirm that Iran was the source, but Laura Lucas, a
spokeswoman for the National Security Council, said that ''mitigating threats in
cyberspace, whether theft of intellectual property or intrusions against our
critical infrastructure'' was a governmentwide initiative and that the United
States would consider ''all of the measures at its disposal -- from diplomatic
to law enforcement to economic -- when determining how to protect our nation,
allies, partners, and interests in cyberspace.''

In the past, government officials have privately warned companies under threat.
But Homeland Security was able to issue a broader warning because of an
executive order, signed in February, promoting greater information sharing about
such threats between the government and private companies that oversee the
nation's critical infrastructure.

An agency called ICS-Cert, which monitors attacks on computer systems that run
industrial processes, issued the warning. It said the government was ''highly
concerned about hostility against critical infrastructure organizations,'' and
included a link to a previous warning about Shamoon, the virus used in the Saudi
Aramco attack last year.

That attack prompted Leon E. Panetta, then defense secretary, to warn of a ''
cyber-Pearl Harbor'' if the United States did not take the threat seriously.

Saudi Aramco and RasGas both said that the attackers had failed in their efforts
to infiltrate their oil production systems.

Government officials also say Iran was the source of a separate continuing
campaign of attacks on American financial institutions that began last September
and has since taken dozens of American banks intermittently offline, costing
millions of dollars. But that attack was a less sophisticated ''denial of
service'' effort.

Jeff Moss, chief security officer at the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names
and Numbers, the private body that oversees the basic design of the Internet,
said: ''For the last year, Iran has been focused on disrupting financial
institutions' Web sites. If they are going after energy, and opening a
multiprong front, at what point does it cross from annoyance to a threshold?''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/05/25/world/middleeast/new-computer-attacks-come-fro
m-iran-officials-say.html

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                              May 28, 2013 Tuesday

SoftBank and Sprint Win National Security Clearance for Deal

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 776 words



HIGHLIGHT: SoftBank of Japan has reached a tentative agreement to win national
security clearance for its $20.1 billion bid for Sprint Nextel, the companies
announced on Wednesday, surmounting one of the biggest hurdles to the deal.


 7:32 a.m. | Updated with official announcement

SoftBank of Japan has reached a tentative agreement to win national security
clearance for its $20.1 billion bid for Sprint Nextel, surmounting one of the
biggest hurdles to the deal.

To pass the review by a government panel, both SoftBank and Sprint agreed to a
number of concessions, people briefed on the matter said on Tuesday. For
example, the companies will give the United States veto power over a director on
the new board of Sprint, the member who would be responsible for overseeing
compliance with national security, these people said.

The government panel, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States,
has signed off on the deal, the two companies announced Wednesday morning.

With the panel's decision, SoftBank faces only two major remaining hurdles. The
Federal Communications Commission will soon resume reviewing the Sprint deal, a
process that is expected to finish in a week or so, according to people briefed
on the process. The regulator halted its work earlier this year at the request
of the Justice Department.

Sprint shareholders must also approve the SoftBank bid. A vote on the
transaction is currently scheduled for June 12.

The panel's approval comes amid a campaign by Dish Network, a rival bidder for
Sprint. Dish, in part, sought to drum up fears based on SoftBank's ties to
Chinese telecommunications equipment makers.

"Without U.S. ownership and control of Sprint, SoftBank's reliance on Chinese
equipment manufacturers raises significant national security concerns," Dish
wrote on nationalsecuritymatters.com, a Web site the company set up as part of
its media blitz.

Several lawmakers have also expressed wariness over the deal. Senator Charles E.
Schumer of New York sent a letter to the Treasury Department and the F.C.C. last
week urging them to look closely "to ensure that our nation's security is not
placed at risk."

Over the years, concerns about the country's safety have thwarted several
planned takeovers, including a Chinese oil company's bid for the oil company
Unocal and a Dubai port operator's effort to buy several American assets.

At the heart of the worries over Sprint are SoftBank's use of equipment
manufactured by Huawei and ZTE, companies that lawmakers have contended are
closely tied to the Chinese government. Critics have argued that letting their
products into important national infrastructure could leave the company exposed
to potential cyber-attacks on power plants and other vital assets.

SoftBank currently uses some equipment from the Chinese manufacturers in its
network outside the United States. And Clearwire, an American wireless network
operator that Sprint is trying to buy, has some Huawei products in parts of its
network.

Dish Network, which is seeking to wrest Sprint away from SoftBank with a $25.5
billion offer, has rolled out a media campaign in Washington that raises fears
about a foreign takeover of a major American telecommunications company.

The campaign comes despite existing foreign investment in the United States
wireless industry. Vodafone of Britain owns 45 percent of Verizon Wireless,
while Deutsche Telekom of Germany owns a majority stake in T-Mobile US.

Since announcing their deal agreement last fall, SoftBank and Sprint have been
in close touch with government agencies to allay fears. The goal was to ease the
proposed transaction's passage through the review by Cfius (pronounced
SIF-ee-us), which is comprised by several agencies led by the Treasury
secretary.

The panel's examination is kept highly confidential, and buyers do not always
know exactly why their proposals are rejected.

To address the matter of Chinese equipment, SoftBank and Sprint, as part of
earlier concessions, pledged to remove Huawei equipment from Clearwire's
network. the task will cost about $1 billion, according to a person briefed on
the matter. They also agreed to give the government a say over non-American
vendors used by Sprint.

Dish, which is not subject to a review by Cfius, has not specifically pledged to
remove the Huawei equipment from Clearwire. "We believe the U.S. government
should proceed with deliberation and caution in turning over assets of national
strategic importance - such as the Sprint fiber backbone and wireless networks -
to a foreign-controlled entity with significant ties to China," a spokesman for
Dish said in a statement on Tuesday. "Oversight and accountability for our
national network infrastructure is critical at a time when offshore cyberattacks
continue to rise."


     ·    Some in Congress Grow More Wary of Selling Sprint to SoftBank of Japan
     ·    SoftBank's Chief Talks Up Takeover Bid for Sprint


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 29, 2013 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Firm Accused In Laundering Of $6 Billion

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA, WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM and NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words


The operators of a global currency exchange ran a $6 billion money-laundering
operation online, a central hub for criminals trafficking in everything from
stolen identities to child pornography, federal prosecutors in New York said on
Tuesday.

The currency exchange, Liberty Reserve, operated beyond the traditional confines
of United States and international banking regulations in what prosecutors
called a shadowy netherworld of cyberfinance. It traded in virtual currency and
provided the kind of anonymous and easily accessible banking infrastructure
increasingly sought by criminal networks, law enforcement officials said.

The charges announced at a news conference by Preet Bharara, the United States
attorney in Manhattan, and other law enforcement officials, mark what officials
said was believed to be the largest online money-laundering case in history.
Over seven years, Liberty Reserve was responsible for laundering billions of
dollars, conducting 55 million transactions that involved millions of customers
around the world, including about 200,000 in the United States, according to
prosecutors.

Richard Weber, who heads the Internal Revenue Service's criminal investigation
division in Washington, said at the news conference that the case heralds the
arrival of ''the cyber age of money laundering,'' in which criminals ''are
gravitating toward digital currency alternatives as a means to move, conceal and
enjoy their ill-gotten gains.''

''If Al Capone were alive today, this is how he would be hiding his money,'' Mr.
Weber said. ''Our efforts today shatter the belief among high-tech money
launderers that what happens in cyberspace stays in cyberspace.''

Just as PayPal revolutionized how people shop online, making it possible to buy
a microwave oven or concert tickets with the click of a button, Liberty Reserve
sought to create a similarly convenient way for criminals to make financial
transactions, law enforcement officials said.

The charges detailed a complicated system designed to allow people to move sums
large and small around the world with virtual anonymity, according to an
indictment, which was unsealed in federal court in Manhattan.

''As alleged, the only liberty that Liberty Reserve gave many of its users was
the freedom to commit crimes -- the coin of its realm was anonymity, and it
became a popular hub for fraudsters, hackers and traffickers,'' Mr. Bharara said
at the news conference, where officials from the Justice and Treasury
Departments, as well as the Secret Service and Homeland Security Investigations,
also spoke. ''The global enforcement action we announce today is an important
step toward reining in the 'Wild West' of illicit Internet banking. As crime
goes increasingly global, the long arm of the law has to get even longer, and in
this case, it encircled the earth.''

Liberty Reserve surfaced as a preferred vehicle to transfer money between
parties in a number of recent high-profile cybercrimes, including the indictment
of eight New Yorkers accused of helping to loot $45 million from bank machines
in 27 countries, officials said.

Liberty Reserve was incorporated in Costa Rica in 2006 by Arthur Budovsky, who
renounced his United States citizenship in 2011, and was arrested in Spain on
Friday. He was among seven people charged in the case; five of them were under
arrest, while two remained at large in Costa Rica. All were charged with
conspiracy to commit money laundering, conspiracy to operate an unlicensed
money-transmitting business, and operating an unlicensed money-transmitting
business. The money laundering count carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in
prison, and the other two charges carry a maximum of 5 years each.

In addition to the criminal charges, five domain names were seized, including
the one used by Liberty Reserve. Officials also seized or restricted the
activity of 45 bank accounts.

The closing of Liberty Reserve last week seemed to have an immediate chilling
effect on its customers, who were suddenly unable to access their funds and who
posted anxious comments in underground forums, according to law enforcement
officials. Mr. Bharara said the exchange's clientele was largely made up of
criminals, but he invited any legitimate users to contact his office to get
their money back.

The charges outlined how the money transfer system operated, offering a glimpse
into the murky world of online financial transactions where money bounces
between accounts from Cyprus to New York in the blink of an eye.

To transfer money using Liberty Reserve, a user needed only to provide a name,
address and date of birth. But users were not required to validate their
identity.

''Accounts could therefore be opened easily using fictitious or anonymous
identities,'' the indictment states. Prosecutors cited ''blatantly criminal
monikers'' used by Liberty Reserve clients, like ''Russia Hackers.''

Essentially, all a customer needed to open an account was an e-mail address.

One undercover agent was able to register accounts under names like ''Joe
Bogus'' and describe the purpose of the account as ''for cocaine'' without being
questioned, officials said. That no-questions-asked verification system made
Liberty Reserve the premier bank for cybercriminals, prosecutors said.

The case is significant, prosecutors said, because it attacks the financial
infrastructure used by many cybercriminals in much the same way that
drug-money-laundering prosecutions unravel the financial underpinnings of the
narcotics trade.

Dismantling the Liberty Reserve operation was ''critical because transnational
criminal organizations can succeed only so long as they can funnel their illicit
proceeds freely and without detection,'' said James T. Hayes Jr., the
special-agent-in-charge for Immigration and Customs Enforcement Homeland
Security Investigations.

While Liberty Reserve was incorporated outside the United States, federal
officials used a provision in the Patriot Act to target the organization and
other financial institutions with whom they conducted business. It was the first
time the provision had been used to prosecute a virtual currency provider,
officials said.

Liberty Reserve did not take or make cash payments directly and instead used
''third-party 'exchangers,' '' according to the indictment. These exchangers
would take and make payments, and then credit or debit the Liberty Reserve
account, allowing Liberty Reserve to avoid collecting any banking information on
its clients and not leave a ''centralized financial paper trail,'' the
indictment said.

The exchangers, the indictment said, ''tended to be unlicensed
money-transmitting businesses without significant government oversight or
regulation, concentrated in Malaysia, Russia, Nigeria and Vietnam.''

The people who accepted Liberty Reserve's currency were ''overwhelmingly
criminal in nature,'' according to the indictment.

''They included, for example: traffickers of stolen credit card data and
personal identity information; peddlers of various types of online Ponzi and
get-rich-quick schemes; computer hackers for hire; unregulated gambling
enterprises; and underground drug-dealing Web sites,'' according to the
indictment.

Despite the case against Liberty Reserve, security experts said, there were
plenty of online payment systems that allow users to move money without
verifying their identities.

''Organized crime and terrorist groups are now financing their operations
through these anonymous payment systems,'' said Tom Kellermann, a vice president
at Trend Micro, a security firm. ''The financial sector no longer has a monopoly
on moving capital around the world.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/05/29/nyregion/liberty-reserve-operators-accused-of-
money-laundering.html

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''The coin of its realm was anonymity,'' Preet Bharara, the
United States attorney in Manhattan, said of Liberty Reserve. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20)  GRAPHICS: How Liberty Reserve's
Virtual Currency Works: The Treasury Department, in an attempt to put Liberty
Reserve out of business, is proposing rules to prohibit regulated financial
institutions from doing business with anyone   who processes Liberty Reserve
transactions. Here is how the company works, which prosecutors say is designed
to allow criminals to launder money. (Source: Financial Crimes Enforcement
Network) (A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 29, 2013 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SoftBank And Sprint In Agreement

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 777 words


SoftBank of Japan has reached a tentative agreement to win national security
clearance for its $20.1 billion bid for Sprint Nextel, surmounting one of the
biggest hurdles to the deal.

To pass the review by a government panel, both SoftBank and Sprint agreed to a
number of concessions, people briefed on the matter said on Tuesday. For
example, the companies will give the United States veto power over a director on
the new board of Sprint, the member who would be responsible for overseeing
compliance with national security, these people said.

The government panel, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States,
or Cfius, had until midnight Tuesday to render its verdict. An announcement by
the two companies could come as soon as Wednesday, one of these people said.

With the panel's decision, SoftBank faces only two major remaining hurdles. The
Federal Communications Commission will soon resume reviewing the Sprint deal, a
process that is expected to finish in a week or so, according to people briefed
on the process. The regulator halted its work earlier this year at the request
of the Justice Department.

Sprint shareholders must also approve the SoftBank bid. A vote on the
transaction is currently scheduled for June 12.

The panel's approval comes amid a campaign by Dish Network, a rival bidder for
Sprint. Dish, in part, sought to drum up fears based on SoftBank's ties to
Chinese telecommunications equipment makers.

''Without U.S. ownership and control of Sprint, SoftBank's reliance on Chinese
equipment manufacturers raises significant national security concerns,'' Dish
wrote on nationalsecuritymatters.com, a Web site the company set up as part of
its media blitz.

Several lawmakers have also expressed wariness over the deal. Senator Charles E.
Schumer of New York sent a letter to the Treasury Department and the F.C.C. last
week urging them to look closely ''to ensure that our nation's security is not
placed at risk.''

Over the years, concerns about the country's safety have thwarted several
planned takeovers, including a Chinese oil company's bid for the oil company
Unocal and a Dubai port operator's effort to buy several American assets.

At the heart of the worries over Sprint are SoftBank's use of equipment
manufactured by Huawei and ZTE, companies that lawmakers have contended are
closely tied to the Chinese government. Critics have argued that letting their
products into important national infrastructure could leave the company exposed
to potential cyber-attacks on power plants and other vital assets.

SoftBank currently uses some equipment from the Chinese manufacturers in its
network outside the United States. And Clearwire, an American wireless network
operator that Sprint is trying to buy, has some Huawei products in parts of its
network.

Dish Network, which is seeking to wrest Sprint away from SoftBank with a $25.5
billion offer, has rolled out a media campaign in Washington that raises fears
about a foreign takeover of a major American telecommunications company.

The campaign comes despite existing foreign investment in the United States
wireless industry. Vodafone of Britain owns 45 percent of Verizon Wireless,
while Deutsche Telekom of Germany owns a majority stake in T-Mobile US.

Since announcing their deal agreement last fall, SoftBank and Sprint have been
in close touch with government agencies to allay fears. The goal was to ease the
proposed transaction's passage through the review by Cfius (pronounced
SIF-ee-us), which is comprised by several agencies led by the Treasury
secretary.

The panel's examination is kept highly confidential, and buyers do not always
know exactly why their proposals are rejected.

To address the matter of Chinese equipment, SoftBank and Sprint, as part of
earlier concessions, pledged to remove Huawei equipment from Clearwire's
network. the task will cost about $1 billion, according to a person briefed on
the matter. They also agreed to give the government a say over non-American
vendors used by Sprint.

Dish, which is not subject to a review by Cfius, has not specifically pledged to
remove the Huawei equipment from Clearwire. ''We believe the U.S. government
should proceed with deliberation and caution in turning over assets of national
strategic importance -- such as the Sprint fiber backbone and wireless networks
-- to a foreign-controlled entity with significant ties to China,'' a spokesman
for Dish said in a statement on Tuesday. ''Oversight and accountability for our
national network infrastructure is critical at a time when offshore cyberattacks
continue to rise.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2013/05/28/softbank-and-sprint-said-to-win-national-
security-clearance-for-deal/

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 2, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. and China Will Hold Talks About Hacking

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and MARK LANDLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190 words


WASHINGTON -- The United States and China have agreed to hold regular,
high-level talks on how to set standards of behavior for cybersecurity and
commercial espionage, the first diplomatic effort to defuse the tensions over
what the United States says is a daily barrage of computer break-ins and theft
of corporate and government secrets.

The talks will begin in July. Next Friday, President Obama and President Xi
Jinping of China, who took office this spring, are scheduled to hold an unusual,
informal summit meeting in Rancho Mirage, Calif., that could set the tone for
their relationship and help them confront chronic tensions like the nuclear
threat from North Korea.

American officials say they do not expect the process to immediately yield a
significant reduction in the daily intrusions from China. The head of the United
States Cyber Command and director of the National Security Agency, Gen. Keith B.
Alexander, has said the attacks have resulted in the ''greatest transfer of
wealth in history.'' Hackers have stolen a variety of secrets, including
negotiating strategies and schematics for next-generation fighter jets and gas
pipeline control systems.

Nonetheless, a senior American official involved in the negotiations to hold
regular meetings said in an interview on Friday that ''we need to get some norms
and rules.''

''It is a serious issue that cannot simply be swatted away with talking
points,'' said the official, who noted that the meetings would focus primarily
on the theft of intellectual property from American companies. ''Our concerns
are not limited to that, but that's what needs urgent attention,'' he added.

The Chinese government has insisted it is a victim of cyberattacks, not a
perpetrator, and Chinese officials have vigorously denied the extensive evidence
gathered by the Pentagon and private security experts that a unit of the
People's Liberation Army, Unit 61398 outside Shanghai, is behind many of the
most sophisticated attacks on the United States.

On Saturday, after Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel spoke of a ''growing threat of
cyberintrusions'' at a conference in Singapore, in comments directed at China, a
Chinese general gave a tart response saying she doubted the United States'
assurances that its growing military presence in Asia was not directed at China.

While cyberattacks will be a major subject of the talks in Rancho Mirage, at an
estate that belonged to Walter Annenberg, the main effort will be to forge a
rapport between Mr. Obama and Mr. Xi. American officials hope the estate, known
as Sunnylands, which has played host to American presidents and foreign
dignitaries dating to Richard M. Nixon, will put both men at ease.

American officials said they have been surprised by the pace at which Mr. Xi, a
longtime party functionary who consolidated his grip on power in March, has
installed new faces in the Chinese leadership and moved to take greater control
over the military, something his predecessor, Hu Jintao, never mastered.

Another main issue at the meeting will be North Korea. American officials,
emerging from talks with Mr. Xi and his team, believe that the new Chinese
leader has less patience for North Korea and little of the sentimental
attachment to its leaders that his predecessors had.

''What's interesting here is the dog that isn't barking,'' the American official
said. The Chinese, he noted, are not urging all sides to resume talks until the
North Koreans agree that the objective is removing all nuclear weapons from the
Korean Peninsula. ''We're not hearing the soothing mantra of restraint,'' he
said.

The Chinese have also taken public steps to confront North Korea, like ordering
the Bank of China to stop dealing with North Korea's largest foreign-exchange
bank.

''They're much more open to causing pain to North Korea,'' said Jeffrey A.
Bader, a top China adviser to Mr. Obama until 2011.

Still, during the latest round of the Korea crisis this spring, Kim Jong-un, the
young and largely untested new North Korean leader, made it clear that he had no
intention of ever giving up his small arsenal.

Cybersecurity issues loom large between the United States and China because they
go to the heart of the economic relationship between the two countries, even
more so now that previous sources of friction, like China's foreign exchange
policies, have eased in the last year.

Chinese academics and industrialists say that if China is to maintain its annual
economic growth rate of 7 or 8 percent, it needs a steady inflow of new
technology. That could make the Chinese reluctant to cut back on the systematic
theft of intellectual property.

In return, the Chinese will press the Americans on their use of cyberweapons:
while there is no evidence that they have been used against Chinese targets, the
sophisticated cyberattacks on Iran's nuclear program by the United States and
Israel are often cited by the Chinese news media and military journals as
evidence that Washington, too, uses cyberspace for strategic advantage.

The talks over computer hacking will start as part of the Strategic and Economic
Dialogue, an annual meeting of Chinese and American officials on a broad range
of issues. But a new working group is being organized on the subject that will
meet more frequently, officials say.

Where the talks will lead, however, is unclear: after considerable debate within
the Obama administration, officials have concluded that online conflict does not
lend itself to the kind of arms control treaties that the United States and the
Soviet Union began negotiating 50 years ago. Today, cyberweapons are held by
private individuals as well as states, and figuring out where an attack began
can be maddeningly difficult.

Another problem, China experts said, is that neither the Americans nor the
Chinese are well prepared for a candid discussion of cyberissues. The growth of
hacking, and its use in both military and corporate espionage, is a new enough
phenomenon that it is not clear how seriously Mr. Xi and other senior Chinese
leaders view it.

Tung Chee-hwa, a former chief executive of Hong Kong who has close ties to
China's leaders, said recently that when he raises the American concerns about
hacking with senior officials in Beijing, they express puzzlement.

And neither side, experts said, is ready to discuss military espionage, which
means the conversation will necessarily focus on the theft of corporate secrets
by China-based hackers. On that subject, they said, Mr. Obama needs to be
unyielding.

''Obama has got to say, 'You've got a major hacking operation under way in
Beijing, you've got a major hacking operation under way in Shanghai. This is
going to have repercussions if we don't see changes very quickly,' '' said
Kenneth G. Lieberthal, a China adviser in the Clinton administration who is now
at the Brookings Institution.

China and the United States, experts say, could find common ground on the need
to stop cyberattacks on critical national infrastructure, like the electrical
grid, since it poses such a danger to both countries. ''I personally think a
bilateral 'no sabotage' pledge would be a very good idea,'' Mr. Bader said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/02/world/asia/us-and-china-to-hold-talks-on-hacki
ng.html

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 2, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hagel Calls For Action To Protect Cyberspace

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 913 words


SINGAPORE -- In remarks directed at China, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel spoke
Saturday of a ''growing threat'' of cyberattacks against the United States and
called on America and its allies to ''establish international norms of
responsible behavior in cyberspace.''

Speaking to an audience of defense analysts and defense ministers from Asia and
Europe at the annual conference of the International Institute for Strategic
Studies, Mr. Hagel said the United States was ''cleareyed about the challenges
in cyber.''

''The United States has expressed our concerns about the growing threat of
cyberintrusions, some of which appear to be tied to the Chinese government and
military,'' he said in a speech largely devoted to the Obama administration's
defense posture in Asia. At the same time, Mr. Hagel emphasized the need for
more talks between the American and Chinese militaries to build trust and reduce
the risk of miscalculation at a time of mounting rivalry.

His remarks were immediately challenged by a Chinese general in a
question-and-answer session after his speech. A delegate to the conference, Maj.
Gen. Yao Yunzhu, director of the Center for China-America Defense Relations at
the Academy of Military Science in Beijing, said she was not convinced -- and
China was not convinced -- that the United States wanted a ''comprehensive''
relationship with China. The new American policy in Asia and the Pacific amounts
to containment of China, General Yao said.

Speaking a week before a summit meeting in California between President Obama
and China's new leader, Xi Jinping, Mr. Hagel sought to reassure Washington's
nervous Asian allies, who are concerned about China's expanding naval
activities, that the United States would maintain its presence in the region.

Over all, he said, the United States will keep its ''decisive military edge,''
an oblique but distinct reference to American military superiority. China
announced an 11.2 percent increase in military spending last year, part of its
rapid military modernization.

He emphasized that new technologies would entail spending fewer resources in a
smarter way, saying that the Navy had launched an experimental drone from an
aircraft carrier last month for the first time. It was a feat that ushered in a
new era of naval aviation, he said. Unstated, but understood by many in the
audience, was the fact that China just last year put into service its first
aircraft carrier, an old Ukrainian vessel refitted by the Chinese.

Mr. Hagel also said the United States would deploy a solid-state laser aboard
the Ponce, a naval vessel, next year. He said it would provide ''an affordable
answer'' to counter threats like ''missiles, swarming small boats and remotely
piloted aircraft.''

He said that the first of four littoral combat ships to rotate through Singapore
had recently arrived, and that he would visit the ship, the Freedom, on Sunday.
The littoral combat ship is a new class of speedy war vessels that can operate
on the ocean and in shallow coastal waters. Each costs $700 million, the
Pentagon says.

In a feisty address that opened the conference, Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung
of Vietnam laid bare the rising regional tensions by repeatedly lamenting the
lack of trust between China and its neighbors, and between China and the United
States, although he did not mention China by name.

Regional organizations are supposed to take care of such tensions, he said, but
what is ''still missing is strategic trust in the implementation of these
arrangements.''

As evidence of the problems, several diplomats from nations allied with the
United States said they were concerned about a new map of the South China Sea
that was issued last week by Sinomaps Press, the Chinese mapping authority.
Beijing has long claimed the islands and land ''features'' within a nine-dash
line drawn decades ago on maps of the South China Sea, a vital trade route where
China is growing more assertive.

About 80 percent of the South China Sea is inside that line, which was first
drawn up by China in 1947 before the Communist takeover. The boundary is not
recognized by any other country but has been the basis of China's territorial
claims to islands like the Scarborough Shoal, which it effectively seized from
the Philippines last year.

The new map, according to Asian diplomats who have seen it, takes a further step
and redesignates the nine-dash line as a national boundary. Its release was
delayed from late last year so that it could be formally authorized by the
Chinese senior leadership, according to a senior Asian diplomat, who spoke on
the condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the matter.

Wu Shicun, a Chinese official at the conference, denied that the new map showed
national boundaries. Instead, he said, it shows new lines around the islands
that China calls the Diaoyu, a group in the East China Sea that Japan, which
calls them the Senkaku, nationalized in September, leading Beijing to claim
them.

At the time, China said the lines around the islands were drawn in accordance
with Chinese law. A recent Pentagon report said they did not comport with the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.

Mr. Wu, who heads the National Institute for South China Sea Studies, said
Saturday that the new map was needed because there had not been an official map
of the South China Sea and the East China Sea drawn for about 20 years.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/02/world/asia/hagel-reassures-asian-allies.html

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                              June 4, 2013 Tuesday

Better Late Than Never on Deeming Nonbanks Too Big to Fail

BYLINE: AGNES T. CRANE

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 386 words



HIGHLIGHT: Still, in designating A.I.G. and GE Capital systemically important,
regulators show they are stuck for the most part in the last crisis rather than
looking out for the next one, the author contends.


New systemic-risk tags are better late than never. The American International
Group, GE Capital and Prudential Financial are among the first nonbank firms to
be deemed systemically important financial institutions by the Financial
Stability Oversight Council. These are no-brainers for the moniker. The trouble
is, five years on, watchdogs are still bogged down in the last crisis rather
than looking out for the next one.

All three financial giants on Monday said they had been flagged for the stiffer
oversight bestowed on systemically important institutions, but A.I.G. and GE
Capital seem especially deserving. Uncle Sam had to swoop in to help both during
the financial crisis, with A.I.G. receiving a $182 billion lifeline and GE
Capital a federal guarantee for its new debt.

It's taken a long time, however, to reach this point. Regulators need to be
careful that they justify the label for systemically important financial
institutions, which can force companies to spend a lot more on compliance. But
former Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner identified A.I.G. and GE Capital
three years ago as the type of nonbanks deserving special regulatory attention.
In the interim, the two companies have largely fixed their weaknesses,
diminishing the danger they once posed to the financial system.

That doesn't make the regulators' efforts pointless. Excessive risk-taking is a
hard habit to break. But the watchdogs have gotten bogged down in the financial
crisis. They still need to reform money market mutual funds and implement
Volcker Rule limits on banks' proprietary trading. And the fate of Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac remains up in the air.

Meanwhile, financial markets are evolving quickly. The proliferation of
exchange-traded funds, the rise of giant asset managers like BlackRock and the
decline of banks' role in making markets is changing how money flows through the
system. Moreover, a rash of cyber attacks on financial institutions has made
security a pressing issue. Regulators need to make sure a focus on the past
doesn't blind them to new dangers lurking just ahead.

Agnes T. Crane is a columnist at Reuters Breakingviews. For more independent
commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.


     ·    Money Market Fund Overhaul Is Early Test for Dodd-Frank
     ·    Confronting Regulators on the JPMorgan Leaks


LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                              June 4, 2013 Tuesday

Crunchtime for China's High School Seniors

BYLINE: BILL BISHOP

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 936 words



HIGHLIGHT: Friday and Saturday will be momentous days for millions of Chinese
families, but not because of the upcoming California summit meeting between
President Obama and China&#8217;s new leader, Xi Jinping.


Friday and Saturday will be momentous days for millions of Chinese families, but
not because of the upcoming California summit meeting between President Obama
and China's new leader, Xi Jinping.

On those two days, high school seniors from around China will sit for the annual
college entrance examination, called the Gaokao in Chinese. Most Chinese
students prepare for years under intense pressure, and families spend huge
amounts on tutoring and after-school study sessions. While increasing numbers of
Chinese students go overseas for college - nearly 200,000 went to North America
for the 2011-12 academic year - the vast majority have no option for higher
education but to do well on the national exam.

Cheating is a concern; last year 1,500 people were arrested on suspicion of
selling equipment including "clear-plastic earphones, wireless signal receivers,
and modified pens, watches, glasses and leather belts." This year, one province
has banned anything that "makes the metal detector beep," including bras with
metal clasps.

As with just about everything in China, there are too many people competing for
a scarce resource. And through the household registration (hukou) system, the
college entrance process is biased in favor of urban applicants.

The Economist this week has an excellent article on urbanization that examines
some of the social barriers to expanding urbanization (last week's China Insider
column looked at some of the political and financial obstacles):

The hukou perpetuates a rigid caste system. Children of holders of rural hukou
inherit their parents' second-class status, even if they are born in cities.
Many urbanites want to keep this system in place, to protect their preferential
access to jobs, education and health care.

Getting into college, however, does not guarantee a good job upon graduation,
especially this year. Seven million students who succeeded at the Gaokao four
years ago are now looking for work in the toughest job market ever.

While those millions of Chinese students are sweating through the two-day test,
Mr. Obama and Mr. Xi will be talking in the California desert, in their first
meeting since Mr. Xi succeeded Hu Jintao.

The venue for the United States-China summit meeting, Sunnylands, the former
estate of Walter and Lee Annenberg, is an inspired choice that will allow the
two leaders to have focused discussions in an informal setting. California will
be the last stop in Mr. Xi's Americas tour that has included visits to Trinidad
and Tobago, Costa Rica and Mexico.

The agenda has not been disclosed, but it is likely the topics of discussion
will include cyber issues, North Korea, maritime issues including the South
China Sea and the disputed Diaoyu/Senkaku islands, Iran, Syria, and trade and
the economy.

More important than any specific agenda item is that the two leaders build some
sort of rapport. As Paul Haenle, director of the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for
Global Policy in Beijing and previously a National Security Council official in
the administrations of both the George W. Bush and President Obama, told
Bloomberg News:

"What these two leaders need to do is really begin to establish a working
relationship. ... The biggest problem we have had in our interaction with China
is that it has been very stilted, and very much in accordance with scripted
talking points."

The meeting should have political benefits for Mr. Xi, as it will likely show
him as a down to earth, confident, global statesman, in marked contrast with the
style of his predecessors. One "senior Obama administration official" told The
Wall Street Journal that "there is a lot more hope ... the previous government
was more 20th century. The new team seems to be more 21st century."

President Obama is under increasing pressure from Congress to show progress on
cybersecurity, but we should not expect any breakthroughs. The United States and
China have agreed to hold talks on hacking, but it is not clear that the Chinese
government understands how serious this issue has become on Capitol Hill and the
effect it may have on the relationship:

A new, bipartisan Senate measure, for example, calls for the creation of a
"watch list" of foreign countries engaging in cyber espionage. For the worst
offenders, the president could "block imports of certain categories of goods if
they benefited from the stolen U.S. technology or proprietary information,"
explained Sen. Carl Levin (D-Mich.) in a letter to Obama last week.

"I thought you could refer to this bill in your meeting with President Xi as an
example that the U.S. will indeed impose real costs on China should they
continue to steal our intellectual property," added Levin, who promised he would
seek action on the bill this year.

THE NEW FOREIGN POLICY MANTRA for the Chinese government is building "a new type
of great power relations." The meaningis not yet clear, but it is probably safe
to assume that it involves a relative diminution of American power vis a vis
China. While there are many positive aspects to the United States-China
relationship, including bilateral trade that may exceed $450 billion in 2013,
managing the rise of China is going to require statesmanship and strategic
thinking that, given the partisan politics in Washington, could be lacking.

I have two suggestions for the summit meeting organizers. First, Peng Liyuan and
Michelle Obama will be with their husbands at Sunnylands, and it would be great
if there were a global initiative on which they could cooperate.

Second, given the proposed acquisition of Smithfield Foods by Shanghui
International, serve some Smithfield Ham.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        June 6, 2013 Thursday 00:00 EST

Laurel and Hardy in Google's Toyland;
Movie Review

BYLINE: MANOHLA DARGIS

SECTION: MOVIES

LENGTH: 918 words



HIGHLIGHT: In "The Internship," set in a mock-up of Google's headquarters, Vince
Vaughn and Owen Wilson play analog guys thrust into a digital world.


When did Vince Vaughn drink the Google-aid? That's one of the many imponderables
raised by "The Internship," his two-hour commercial for GoogleWorld masquerading
as an aspirational buddy comedy that he headlines with Owen Wilson. According to
Reuters, the movie's director, Shawn Levy, said Mr. Vaughn hit on the story idea
after watching a report on "60 Minutes" that anointed Google as one of the best
places in the world to work. Thus inspired, maybe because he himself works in
Hollywood, Mr. Vaughn reached out to the company, which cooperated with the
production because executives were said to feel that they didn't have much
choice but to agree to hours of Google adoration.

It may also be that Mr. Vaughn's interest in libertarianism (he spoke in support
of Ron Paul during the last presidential campaign) dovetailed with the cyber
-libertarianism that's popular in Silicon Valley. Whatever Mr. Vaughn's
motivations, with "The Internship" he has charted possibly new, definitely
uneasy terrain by helping create a big-studio release that, from start to gaga
finish, is a hosanna to a single company, its products, philosophy and implicit
politics. Plenty of movies sell stuff from fashion to wars and religion; this
one sells the Tao of Google. ("The New Digital Age: Reshaping the Future of
People, Nations and Business," by Eric Schmidt, Google's executive chairman, and
Jared Cohen, director of its Google Ideas division, was, ta-da, published in
April.)

The Way of Google begins with Billy (Mr. Vaughn) and Nick (Mr. Wilson),
traveling salesmen of pricey watches, learning that the company they work for
has closed. They're not just understandably thrown by this turn, being
old-fashioned analog guys in a newfangled digital world, but they also quickly
register as totally helpless, with Nick forced into labor at a bricks-and-mortar
store. They're so out of touch that when Billy decides they should become
interns at Google, they have to video chat with their interviewers from a
library. Adding indignity to inconvenience, Mr. Levy puts Billy and Nick in the
children's section for this scene, folding their big bodies into little chairs
that illustrate just how vulnerable -- childish, really -- they are. Google to
the rescue!

In the production notes for the movie Mr. Levy compares, seemingly
straight-faced, Google's corporate headquarters to the Emerald City. There may
not be a horse of a different color prancing through the company's airy
terrariumlike spaces in Mountain View, Calif. (recreated in Atlanta), with its
vaulted ceilings and miles of glass walls. But the multicultural and multiethnic
interns, a millennial melting pot of geeks and freaks bustling through the
hallways, are just as pretty and hardworking as that Land of Oz horse. Like
Billy and Nick, these shiny, smiling aspirants have convened for a chance to
work full time for the tech giant, which, as the narrative progresses and the
message sharpens to a blunt point, increasingly comes across as a new form of
religion -- Google as God or maybe Disney.

Written by Mr. Vaughn and Jared Stern, "The Internship" spreads the corporate
gospel with sporadic jokes, the usual buddy-film shenanigans (a visit to a strip
club, a teasingly shared bed) and a lot of motivational cant. Thrown together
with three other interns (Dylan O'Brien, Tobit Raphael, Tiya Sircar) and a
twitchy Google employee (Josh Brener), Billy and Nick initially assume roles as
kooky, kindly Uncle Ludds who can't tell bits from bytes but who, in between
learning HTML and swapping NSFW yuks, grow into their Yoda-like destiny. As Nick
flirts with an executive, Dana (Rose Byrne), and Billy trades barbs with a
bully, Graham (Max Minghella), the movie's product placement leprechauns stay
busy: Miller Lite, Apple, the Harry Potter franchise.

The name Google, surprise, appears in almost every scene in every conceivable
cutesy, slangy permutation (noun, verb, adjective) in what sounds like every
other line of dialogue. That the studio releasing this feature-length ad, 20th
Century Fox, would lend its brand to another branded behemoth like this is
vulgar if not shocking, especially given how numbers-driven studios have become.
The systems that they increasingly employ to try and build hits may be not as
famous or secret as Google's algorithm, but there are, um, links. Or in the
words of one industry adviser: "As audiences are more interactive than ever in
their entertainment consumption, it's become increasingly easier for marketers
and the information technology community to gather data on their preferences."
Someone really said this. You can Google it.

"The Internship" is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). Expletives and
recreational excesses.

The Internship

Opens on Friday nationwide.

Directed by Shawn Levy; written by Vince Vaughn and Jared Stern, based on a
story by Mr. Vaughn; director of photography, Jonathan Brown; edited by Dean
Zimmerman; music by Christophe Beck; production design by Tom Meyer; costumes by
Leesa Evans; produced by Mr. Vaughn and Mr. Levy; released by 20th Century Fox
and Regency Enterprises. Running time: 1 hour 59 minutes.

WITH: Vince Vaughn (Billy McMahon), Owen Wilson (Nick Campbell), Rose Byrne
(Dana), Max Minghella (Graham Hawtrey), Aasif Mandvi (Mr. Chetty), Josh Brener
(Lyle), Dylan O'Brien (Stuart), Tobit Raphael (Yo-Yo Santos), Tiya Sircar (Neha)
and Jessica Szohr (Marielena).

PHOTO: Owen Wilson, left, and Vince Vaughn as Google interns. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
PHIL BRAY/20TH CENTURY FOX)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2013 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

China: American Is Free to Go Home

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 660 words


An American engineer and entrepreneur whose inability to leave China for the
last five years has been a low-grade irritant for U.S.-Chinese relations was
allowed to return home to Los Angeles on Monday, according to his family.

Coming just days before a high-profile summit between President Xi Jinping and
President Obama at a California desert retreat, the government's decision to
allow the engineer, Hu Zhicheng, to leave China suggests that Beijing may be
seeking to start the two days of talks on a positive note.

Other than a call from a relative in China saying he was on a Los Angeles-bound
plane, Mr. Hu's, wife, Hong Li, said she had no advance notice that her husband
would be coming home.

''We are so happy right now,'' she said by phone. ''My son picked him up and ran
around in circles. The last time he saw his father he was 13. Now he's five
years older, and a foot taller.''

She said her husband was sleeping and that she did not want to wake him.

A Chinese-born inventor trained at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Mr. Hu had in recent years been trapped in a bizarre limbo after angering a
well-connected business associate who apparently used his influence to prevent
him from passing through China's stringent border-exit controls.

In 2008, he was imprisoned for 17 months on commercial theft charges that even
Chinese prosecutors said were unfounded. After his release, however, he was
repeatedly blocked from leaving China by immigration agents who claimed he was a
wanted man. His suspicions aside, Mr. Hu said he was never able to find out who
wanted him. ''I think the goal is to make me suffer, and keep me apart from my
family,'' he said in a 2011 interview.

A well-regarded inventor with 48 patents to his name, Mr. Hu has been a pioneer
in automobile emission control technology. After two decades working abroad, he
returned to China in 2004 to start a company that provides catalytic converters
to the country's booming auto industry. The company has grown so successful that
it now outfits roughly half of China's domestically manufactured cars.

His problems began, he said, after he refused to buy what he said were inferior
components from a company whose politically connected executive would not take
no for an answer.

John Kamm, executive director of Dui Hua Foundation, an American organization
that advocates on behalf of political prisoners in China, said he was encouraged
by the departure of Mr. Hu, whose inability to leave despite the absence of
legal charges against him had frustrated human rights advocates and American
diplomats.

Even if the case was easy for Chinese authorities to solve -- Mr. Hu, after all,
was never convicted of a crime -- Mr. Kamm said the timing of its resolution
suggested that China's new president may be willing to clear up several
nettlesome human rights cases, especially those involving American citizens, as
the two countries grapple with contentious issues like North Korea and
allegations of Chinese cyber hacking. Top on the list is Xue Feng, a
Chinese-American geologist who is serving eight years in prison on commercial
theft charges that many legal experts say are spurious.

''The case of Hu Zhicheng has been hanging over everyone's head for a long
time,'' Mr. Kamm said. ''Perhaps I'm too optimistic, but it may signal that Xi
Jinping could be willing to move forward on other, more sensitive cases.''

Mr. Kamm and others credited Mr. Hu's daughter, Victoria, a student at the
University of California, Berkeley, for using social media to bring attention to
her father's plight. A petition campaign she launched in 2011 yielded more than
60,000 signatures; on Tuesday, she celebrated his return with a posting on
Facebook that drew hundreds of likes. ''After 5 years, my dad is finally
home!!'' she wrote. ''Watching him walk around trying to find the chopsticks is
the best feeling ever.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/06/world/asia/china-allows-return-of-us-executive
-before-xis-visit.html

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                             June 6, 2013 Thursday

Leaks Overshadow Obama's Meeting With President of China

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 573 words



HIGHLIGHT: The meeting with President Xi Jinping was expected to be a venue for
Mr. Obama to raise concerns about Chinese cyber attacks and spying. Now, it will
take place amid striking revelations about the United States&#8217;s
surveillance of its own citizens.


WASHINGTON - New disclosures about top-secret government programs to collect
data on Americans' phone calls and Internet activity are likely to overshadow
President Obama's two-day summit this weekend with the president of China.

Mr. Obama is set to meet with President Xi Jinping on a 200-acre estate in
Southern California on Friday and Saturday, a historic visit that was expected
to be a venue for Mr. Obama to raise concerns about Chinese cyber attacks and
spying.

But now, that diplomatic conversation will take place in the midst of striking
revelations about the United States's surveillance operations on its own
citizens.

Leaked documents published on Wednesday and Thursday revealed National Security
Agency programs to collect vast amounts of information about the daily
communications of United States residents with people inside the country and
overseas.

One program involved an N.S.A. order to a subsidiary of Verizon Communications
to provide records of all calls made, but not their content. The other program,
according to leaked documents, involved agreements between the N.S.A. and
several of the nation's most prominent Internet companies to allow government
agencies to collect data from the companies' services.

Late Thursday evening, the director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper,
said in a statement that "only non-U.S. persons outside the U.S." were targeted.
He added that the surveillance was subject to a strict legal review to "minimize
the acquisition, retention and dissemination of incidentally acquired
information about U.S. persons."

A spokesman for Mr. Obama, Josh Earnest, told reporters aboard Air Force One on
Thursday that the judicial oversight of the program "reflects the president's
desire to strike the right balance between protecting our national security and
protecting constitutional rights and civil liberties." He added, "The president
welcomes a discussion of the tradeoffs between security and civil liberties."

Mr. Earnest was also peppered with questions about when and how Mr. Obama
himself would discuss the N.S.A. programs.

"Can we expect the president to come out and talk about this at some point?" a
reporter asked.

"I don't anticipate that this will be part of the president's remarks today,"
Mr. Earnest said, referring to the speech at the North Carolina school.

"Not necessarily today, but at some point, as people become more aware of what's
been going on?" the reporter pressed.

"Well, I certainly wouldn't rule it out," Mr. Earnest said.

The response is complicated by Mr. Obama's 3,000-mile trip to the West Coast. As
is typical when the president travels, some top aides are accompanying him while
others remain at the White House.

With the further disclosure later in the day of the program involving the
Internet companies, it is all but certain that reporters will no longer be
focusing on the relationship between the United States and China.

Instead, they are likely to press aggressively to be given more information
about the surveillance programs and to hear directly from Mr. Obama about them.
The challenge for the White House will be to juggle those requests with the
demands of the mini-summit with Mr. Xi.


     ·    Obama to Speak at Brandenburg Gate During Berlin Visit
     ·    The Weekend Word: Remembrance
     ·    Food Company and Farmers Union Back Changes to Aid Program
     ·    Obama to Travel to Oklahoma to Inspect Tornado Damage and Meet With
          Victims
     ·    The Early Word: Pre-Existing Conditions


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 7, 2013 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Laurel and Hardy In Google's Toyland

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE
REVIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 902 words


When did Vince Vaughn drink the Google-aid? That's one of the many imponderables
raised by ''The Internship,'' his two-hour commercial for GoogleWorld
masquerading as an aspirational buddy comedy that he headlines with Owen Wilson.
According to Reuters, the movie's director, Shawn Levy, said Mr. Vaughn hit on
the story idea after watching a report on ''60 Minutes'' that anointed Google as
one of the best places in the world to work. Thus inspired, maybe because he
himself works in Hollywood, Mr. Vaughn reached out to the company, which
cooperated with the production because executives were said to feel that they
didn't have much choice but to agree to hours of Google adoration.

It may also be that Mr. Vaughn's interest in libertarianism (he spoke in support
of Ron Paul during the last presidential campaign) dovetailed with the cyber
-libertarianism that's popular in Silicon Valley. Whatever Mr. Vaughn's
motivations, with ''The Internship'' he has charted possibly new, definitely
uneasy terrain by helping create a big-studio release that, from start to gaga
finish, is a hosanna to a single company, its products, philosophy and implicit
politics. Plenty of movies sell stuff from fashion to wars and religion; this
one sells the Tao of Google. (''The New Digital Age: Reshaping the Future of
People, Nations and Business,'' by Eric Schmidt, Google's executive chairman,
and Jared Cohen, director of its Google Ideas division, was, ta-da, published in
April.)

The Way of Google begins with Billy (Mr. Vaughn) and Nick (Mr. Wilson),
traveling salesmen of pricey watches, learning that the company they work for
has closed. They're not just understandably thrown by this turn, being
old-fashioned analog guys in a newfangled digital world, but they also quickly
register as totally helpless, with Nick forced into labor at a bricks-and-mortar
store. They're so out of touch that when Billy decides they should become
interns at Google, they have to video chat with their interviewers from a
library. Adding indignity to inconvenience, Mr. Levy puts Billy and Nick in the
children's section for this scene, folding their big bodies into little chairs
that illustrate just how vulnerable -- childish, really -- they are. Google to
the rescue!

In the production notes for the movie Mr. Levy compares, seemingly
straight-faced, Google's corporate headquarters to the Emerald City. There may
not be a horse of a different color prancing through the company's airy
terrariumlike spaces in Mountain View, Calif. (recreated in Atlanta), with its
vaulted ceilings and miles of glass walls. But the multicultural and multiethnic
interns, a millennial melting pot of geeks and freaks bustling through the
hallways, are just as pretty and hardworking as that Land of Oz horse. Like
Billy and Nick, these shiny, smiling aspirants have convened for a chance to
work full time for the tech giant, which, as the narrative progresses and the
message sharpens to a blunt point, increasingly comes across as a new form of
religion -- Google as God or maybe Disney.

Written by Mr. Vaughn and Jared Stern, ''The Internship'' spreads the corporate
gospel with sporadic jokes, the usual buddy-film shenanigans (a visit to a strip
club, a teasingly shared bed) and a lot of motivational cant. Thrown together
with three other interns (Dylan O'Brien, Tobit Raphael, Tiya Sircar) and a
twitchy Google employee (Josh Brener), Billy and Nick initially assume roles as
kooky, kindly Uncle Ludds who can't tell bits from bytes but who, in between
learning HTML and swapping NSFW yuks, grow into their Yoda-like destiny. As Nick
flirts with an executive, Dana (Rose Byrne), and Billy trades barbs with a
bully, Graham (Max Minghella), the movie's product placement leprechauns stay
busy: Miller Lite, Apple, the Harry Potter franchise.

The name Google, surprise, appears in almost every scene in every conceivable
cutesy, slangy permutation (noun, verb, adjective) in what sounds like every
other line of dialogue. That the studio releasing this feature-length ad, 20th
Century Fox, would lend its brand to another branded behemoth like this is
vulgar if not shocking, especially given how numbers-driven studios have become.
The systems that they increasingly employ to try and build hits may be not as
famous or secret as Google's algorithm, but there are, um, links. Or in the
words of one industry adviser: ''As audiences are more interactive than ever in
their entertainment consumption, it's become increasingly easier for marketers
and the information technology community to gather data on their preferences.''
Someone really said this. You can Google it.

''The Internship'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). Expletives and
recreational excesses.

The Internship

Opens on Friday nationwide.

Directed by Shawn Levy; written by Vince Vaughn and Jared Stern, based on a
story by Mr. Vaughn; director of photography, Jonathan Brown; edited by Dean
Zimmerman; music by Christophe Beck; production design by Tom Meyer; costumes by
Leesa Evans; produced by Mr. Vaughn and Mr. Levy; released by 20th Century Fox
and Regency Enterprises. Running time: 1 hour 59 minutes.

WITH: Vince Vaughn (Billy McMahon), Owen Wilson (Nick Campbell), Rose Byrne
(Dana), Max Minghella (Graham Hawtrey), Aasif Mandvi (Mr. Chetty), Josh Brener
(Lyle), Dylan O'Brien (Stuart), Tobit Raphael (Yo-Yo Santos), Tiya Sircar (Neha)
and Jessica Szohr (Marielena).

URL:
http://movies.nytimes.com/2013/06/07/movies/the-internship-with-vince-vaughn-and
-owen-wilson.html

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 12, 2013



CORRECTION: A report in the Bits column on Monday about the reaction of Vince
Vaughn and Owen Wilson, stars of the new movie ''The Internship,'' to Google's
Silicon Valley campus, where it was filmed, gave outdated information on the
movie's premiere. It opened on Friday, June 8; it will not open this Friday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Owen Wilson, left, and Vince Vaughn as Google interns.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL BRAY/20TH CENTURY FOX)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              June 7, 2013 Friday

10 Questions for Jon Huntsman

BYLINE: JOHN HARWOOD

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1984 words



HIGHLIGHT: The former Republican presidential candidate and ambassador to China
spoke with John Harwood about the U.S.-China meeting, the future of the
Republican Party and the 2016 presidential race.


Jon M. Huntsman Jr. has forged a rare political path. After serving as the
governor of Utah, Mr. Huntsman, a fluent Mandarin speaker, became President
Obama's ambassador to China - then resigned to oppose Mr. Obama's re-election
with an unsuccessful run for the 2012 Republican presidential nomination.

Since then, he has helped produce a report on cyberhacking that labeled China
"the world's largest source of intellectual property theft." Mr. Huntsman sat
down with John Harwood of The New York Times and CNBC at the Conrad hotel in New
York to discuss Mr. Obama's meeting this week with President Xi Jinping of
China, the future of the Republican Party and the 2016 presidential race.

What follows is a condensed, edited account of their conversation, as
transcribed by Katherine L. Kreider.

Q.

What did you try to do about cyberhacking as ambassador, and why didn't it work?

A.

What I tried to do specifically, and what I think has been tried since, is to
find centers of best practices in China. Our thought was, if we can find the
examples of excellence of enforcement in China, bring out the local officials
and the party bosses and local state-owned enterprises who had been part of that
model, and compliment them on it, and get them together with U.S. businesses and
laud that good behavior, then those models will expand into something larger.
It's slow going, and that's the painful part of it. You have to bring in China,
and convince them that doing something about it is actually something in their
long-term interest if they actually want to create an innovative and
entrepreneurial society, which is their goal.

Q.

To what degree can this be solved by government-to-government diplomacy?

A.

Limited. You can create red lines, boundaries that are set. Every country
assumes there are going to be national security targets that are poked at. But
when China goes well beyond that, that's when it's a huge problem. The
longer-term play is going to be on engaging this entrepreneurial society that's
coming in China. They're coming up very quickly. They want to have name-brand,
respected entities, they want to go global, they want to come to the United
States.

If you carry that image and reputation as being a rip-off artist, that's going
to hobble you in the marketplace. They're going to be ripped off, too. When I
lived in Taiwan in the 1980s, Taiwan was an egregious violator of our
intellectual property. When they created their first industrial park dedicated
to technology and they had local entrepreneurs innovate and create new stuff,
they then took this up as their issue, because it affected them.

Q.

Chinese leaders come and go, and Americans don't really notice the difference.
What's different about President Xi?

A.

President Xi is a princeling, the son of the former deputy prime minister. He's
a former governor of major provinces, which on a stand-alone basis in terms of
population and G.D.P. are bigger than most countries in the world. He's somebody
who gets the whole economic side, understands investment and trade and what it
takes to make a marketplace work. He's sophisticated, confident.

His goal will be to keep the party in power, make sure it is the centerpiece of
all things important in Chinese society, but at the same time you have to loosen
things up. You have to move towards rule of law and expanded civil society, and
greater certainty about investment, trade and commerce. You're going to have to
figure out a role for the Internet in society. You can't block it and expect
China to become an innovative and prosperous country longer-term.

Q.

Grade President Obama on how he's doing with the Chinese.

A.

Well like most presidents at this point, it's incomplete. I've watched him in
action, and I think he's a very solid president as it relates to trying to
understand the subject matter, forging a relationship - Hu Jintao, Xi Jinping -
I think he's very dedicated to that end. So his priorities might be a little
different than the rest of us, but he's doing his best. Now what is interesting
here is, the rhythm of the U.S.-Chinese relationship is synchronized for the
first time in recent memory. You have the rise of the fifth-generation leaders
in China under Xi Jinping and an open set of possibilities here.

The president's going to have to forge a head-of-state to head-of-state
dialogue. We have never really been able to do that. He'll have to begin to
forge a reprioritized agenda with Xi Jinping, where things like cyber will
probably poke into the top three or four priority issues.

Q.

Is cyber now more important than currency, which for years was what American
politicians talked about?

A.

Currency was always a temporary and fleeting kind of issue, because they're
appreciating 3 percent per year when you're factoring in inflation. They're
going to have to wind up at a destination for their own purposes, so it's a
nonsensical conversation. Cyber, on the other hand, is real - and it's a big
dollar volume that we're losing out on as a country. I would guess it would come
up as the premier economic issue that would be infused into the dialogue.

Q.

Should Americans be worried that a Chinese meat conglomerate just bought
Smithfield Hams

A.

We're part of a global economy, and we need to accept that fact. And when you
look at China's total investment in the U.S., it's a small percentage vis-à-vis
its entire economic base. For them, the sensitivity will be if America is going
to accept its investment, or if it's going to respond like it did 20 years ago
with Japanese investment, which would cause a breakdown of our entire economic
relationship. They still see America as the premier market anywhere in the
world. We're 25 percent of the world's G.D.P., we're safe, we're predictable.

But here's the other part: they're going to have to clean up their act as well,
whether it's I.P. theft, market access, greater transparency in corporate
governance. They're going to have to look a whole lot different as entities as
they enter the U.S. market, and that's a good thing. Let the reviews occur on
the downside risk, but let's not forget that there's an upside, too.

The only way you raise those standards is to get out into the marketplace.
You're forced to compete and you're forced to abide by new standards, or you
lose business. And knowing China as I do, their desire will be to go up the
ladder in terms of quality and value added, and global competitiveness.

So this will be part of a longer-term evolution as they engage with the world
and try to improve their standards over all for trade and commerce. If you start
blocking entry from this country or that country, you get to the Smoot-Hawley
tariff situation of a couple of generations ago, and we all know the disaster
that ensued from that.

Q.

What's working and what isn't working in our relationship with China right now?

A.

Well, we're up to $500 billion in trade. We were at zero 40 years ago. This
relationship has come farther, faster than any relationship in humankind. We now
have 200,000 students in this country - China just overtook India with the
amount of students in America. You get the next generation learning in our
schools, associating with Americans, better understanding our values. And they
take that home - that's a huge deal.

Our cooperation - however slow or difficult - on Iran and North Korea is way
more stepped up today than it has been in the past, because our interests are
more and more in line as the top two economies in the world.

We don't have enough trust in the relationship to drill down to a level of
granularity where you can, for example, talk about contingency planning on the
Korean peninsula if you have a failed nation-state in the North. What do you do
about the nukes? What do you do about refugees? What do you do about command and
control? There isn't a road map developed yet for that kind of thing, which to
me should keep policy makers up at night. It did to me in Beijing.

It's not the confrontation that I worry about - that's way overblown. What
concerns them is the same thing that concerns us, and that is an implosion on
the Korean Peninsula by a crazy leader that unleashes uncertainty in a region
that is now close to being 20 percent of the world's G.D.P.

Q.

Let's go to U.S. politics. What does it say about the Republican Party that
Michele Bachmann made a bigger splash in 2012 than you did?

A.

Politics as theater. There's a lot of entertainment value in politics, I've come
to find. So if you want to talk about the big issues of the day and put forward
a policy reform to deal with education, energy, foreign affairs, that doesn't
get the bounce or the altitude that the political theater does. If you want to
call somebody a name, if you want to give a speech with crazy content - that
will sell, and that will get you on the front pages of the newspaper.

And sadly, that's where politics has become a little surreal and a little too
focused on the entertainment side of things. It's bad for the candidates and
it's really bad for the voters. The substance and the vision about where this
country is going, rarely is that able to get to the surface.

Q.

Republicans seem to be rallying more around investigations of the Obama
administration, as opposed to what Representative Paul Ryan is trying to do in
the budget, what Representative Dave Camp's trying to do on tax reform, what
Senator Marco Rubio is trying to do on immigration. Do you see any prospect this
is going to change?

A.

Probably not. But scandal-mongering, however serious these issues are, is not a
strategy. I think this illustrates the disconnect between the culture of Capitol
Hill and Americans everywhere else who say, "We haven't seen this country work
in a long time. Prove to us, political leader, that this nation can still work,
and produce jobs, and compete, and educate the next generation and bring to the
forefront an energy agenda that will allow us to become energy independent."

So, all of the things that will kind of bring this nation back on its feet,
that's what Americans want to see and hear about. They want to know their
country works and that their country is relevant, and sometimes that
conversation isn't seen enough on Capitol Hill. Republicans need to be seen as
problem solvers. You have to sit at a table, you have to grind away, you have to
compromise. So long as compromise is seen as something analogous to treason, we
will lose.

Phasing out the loopholes and deductions in the tax code - many have said,
traditionally, even that step would constitute a tax increase. I don't know what
world those folks are living on, but to me that's a way to move forward, clean
up the tax code, make us more competitive, broaden the base, lower the rate and
leave this nation with a much more competitive code that hasn't been addressed
since 1986.

Q.

How are you going to go about deciding whether to run for president again?

A.

I think this cycle will be driven by ideas and less by personalities. People out
there want to hear the ideas that will move this nation forward. And if those
ideas bring somebody forward as a candidate, then I think that's probably how
things are going to work. The next two years will really tell that story. I'm
ready and willing and prepared to serve. But the ideas will drive that or not.
If you find early on that people just really don't like your ideas, why waste
your time?

The millennials are a very smart generation. They get the big issues that we're
working on. I think they get the idea that unity, and appealing to a broader
demographic, is the only way the Republicans are going to survive long term. So
we'll see how 2016 goes.


     ·    White House Sets U.S.-China Summit for California in June
     ·    Lawmakers Call for Stronger U.S. Action in Syria
     ·    Obama and G.O.P. Spar Over Direction of Cuts
     ·    Rubio Offers Full-Throated Support for Immigration Bill
     ·    Rand Paul to Speak at Iowa Republican Dinner


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 8, 2013 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Defends Mining of Data

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and DAVID E. SANGER; David E. Sanger contributed
reporting from Washington, and Jackie Calmes from San Jose, Calif.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1044 words


WASHINGTON -- President Obama offered a robust defense of newly revealed
surveillance programs on Friday as more classified secrets spilled into public,
complicating a summit meeting with China's new president focused partly on human
rights and cybersecurity.

Mr. Obama departed from his script at a health care event in California to try
to reassure Americans that he had not abused government authority by collecting
telephone call logs and foreigners' e-mail messages. But the disclosure hours
later of secret contingency planning to target other countries for possible
cyberattacks made his get-together with President Xi Jinping later in the day
all the more awkward because cyberattacks by the Chinese are high on the
American agenda.

The latest of three documents published over three days by the British newspaper
The Guardian added to the understanding of the Obama administration's approach
to national security in an age of multifaceted threats and became another factor
in the renewed debate over the balance between privacy and security.

The identity of the person who gave those documents to The Guardian and The
Washington Post is not known, but The Post has described its source as a career
intelligence officer angry at ''what he believes to be a gross intrusion on
privacy'' by the Obama administration.

Once a critic of President George W. Bush's hawkish policies, Mr. Obama was
ready with an explanation for why he has preserved and extended some of them
when a reporter asked him at the health care event if he could assure Americans
that the government was not building a database of their personal information.
''Nobody is listening to your telephone calls,'' Mr. Obama said. ''That's not
what this program's about.''

But he argued that ''modest encroachments on privacy'' were ''worth us doing''
to protect the country, and he said that Congress and the courts had authorized
those programs.

A National Security Agency telephone surveillance program collects phone numbers
and the duration of calls, not the content, he said. An Internet surveillance
program targets foreigners living abroad, not Americans, he added.

''There are some trade-offs involved,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I came with a healthy
skepticism about these programs. My team evaluated them. We scrubbed them
thoroughly.'' In the end, he concluded that ''they help us prevent terrorist
attacks.''

But the disclosures united liberal Democrats and libertarian Republicans in
accusing him of abandoning values he once espoused. ''We believe the large-scale
collection of this information by the government has a very significant impact
on Americans' privacy, whether senior government officials recognize that fact
or not,'' Senators Ron Wyden of Oregon and Mark Udall of Colorado, both
Democrats, wrote in a joint response to the president's remarks.

Senator Richard J. Durbin, the Senate's No. 2 Democrat and an Obama ally from
Illinois, rebuffed the president's contention that Congress had been kept
abreast of the programs, saying only a handful of top leaders are regularly
briefed.

''To say that there's Congressional approval suggests a level of information and
oversight that's just not there,'' he said in an interview. He added that the
sort of data mining revealed in recent days ''really pushes the role of
government to the limit.''

Advocates of Congressional intervention said public pressure could revive
legislation to at least force more transparency about the programs. ''The timing
has never been better to revisit our past decisions,'' said Senator Mike Lee, a
Utah Republican.

But it was not clear whether there would be a popular backlash to the programs
beyond some outrage on Twitter and Facebook, and even critics like Mr. Durbin
were skeptical. Many Americans interviewed around the country on Friday shared
concerns about their civil liberties but expressed a certain grudging
resignation as well.

In Congress, the main vehicle for any changes, a reauthorization of the 1978 law
that created the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, passed only last
December and is not due for renewal for five years. During the debate last
winter, the Senate voted on a bipartisan basis to reject amendments to force
transparency or curtail surveillance.

Moreover, beyond Mr. Durbin, Congressional leaders and senior lawmakers on the
intelligence committees expressed few qualms. The House speaker, John A.
Boehner, Republican of Ohio, said Mr. Obama must be more forceful in explaining
the programs but declined to discuss his own position. Senator Harry Reid of
Nevada, the Democratic majority leader, dismissed concerns. ''Everyone should
just calm down and understand this isn't anything that is brand new,'' he said.

Just hours after the president spoke, The Guardian posted online a copy of a
classified directive Mr. Obama signed last year laying out conditions under
which the president could order cyberattacks against another country, akin to
the attacks on Iran's uranium enrichment plant.

The directive ordered the government to ''identify potential targets of national
importance'' against which offensive cyberoperations ''can offer a favorable
balance of effectiveness and risk as compared with other instruments of national
power.'' That means, in essence, that the Pentagon's Cyber Command and the
intelligence agencies would maintain lists of targets around the world that
could be damaged more effectively, and more covertly, by a computer attack than
by a missile or bomber attack.

As previously reported, the document says only the president can authorize
offensive cyberoperations, just as only he can authorize the use of nuclear
weapons. The directive also reserves the right to take ''anticipatory action
against imminent threats'' to protect critical infrastructure in the United
States, including power utilities, cellphone networks and financial markets.

That raised the possibility that the United States could strike first if it
feared a large attack from China or another country. Officials have blamed China
for a variety of computer spying and cyberattacks, a subject featured on Mr.
Obama's agenda with Mr. Xi in Southern California.

Josh Earnest, a White House spokesman, said the revelations would not hinder the
president's discussions with Mr. Xi.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/08/us/national-security-agency-surveillance.html

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama tried to reassure Americans. ''Nobody is
listening to your telephone calls.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW
YORK TIMES)
 Senator Ron Wyden (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRES)  CHART:
Comparing Two Secret Surveillance Programs: New details about two government
programs used by the National Security Agency to gather   telephone and Internet
data provide insight into how surveillance programs that began under   George W.
Bush have been used under President Obama.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                             June 8, 2013 Saturday

The Weekend Word: Surveillance

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 461 words



HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today&#8217;s Times, plus a look at the weekly
addresses and the latest happenings in Washington.


 Today's Times


     ·    A thwarted plot to carry out backpack bombings in New York City's
          subway system is the kind of success that President Obama seemed to be
          referring to when he defended the National Security Agency's
          stockpiling of the public's telephone call logs and accessing of
          e-mail from Microsoft, Google, Yahoo and other companies, Eric
          Schmitt, David E. Sanger and Charlie Savage report.



     ·    While Mr. Obama was trying to reassure Americans that he had not
          abused government authority by mining telephone and e-mail data,
          another disclosure was made hours later about secret contingency
          plansto target other countries for possible cyber attacks, Peter Baker
          and David E. Sanger write. The revelations made his get-together with
          President Xi Jinping of China later in the day all the more awkward,
          because cyber attacks by the Chinese are high on the American agenda.


Weekly Addresses


     ·    President Obama avoided any talk of the newly revealed surveillance
          programs in his weekly address, choosing instead to focus on the
          immigration legislation that will soon be debated in the Senate. "Our
          out-of-date immigration system has actually harmed our economy and
          threatened our security," he said. "But if we're going to truly fix a
          broken system, we need Congress to act in a comprehensive way. And
          that's why what's happening next week is so important."  Though he
          acknowledged that it would not be perfect, the legislation would
          provide a pathway to citizenship for 11 million people, in addition to
          improving security and attracting highly skilled workers who lawmakers
          expect to help strengthen the economy. "In the end, that's what this
          is all about. Men and women who want nothing more than the chance to
          earn their way into the American story, just like so many of our
          ancestors did," he said. "And it's how we'll make sure that America's
          best days always lie ahead."



     ·    Representative Luke Messer of Indiana delivered the Republican address
          this week, focusing on the student loan interest rate that is
          scheduled to double on July 1. "No one wants this to happen,
          especially in a job market where millions of recent grads are having a
          hard time finding full-time work," he said. He chided the president
          for denouncing the Republican plan to address the coming increase,
          saying that it was "yet another example of the arrogance of power that
          has taken root" in the White House. "Student loan relief is just one
          example of the solutions Republicans have put forward to get our
          economy back on track and give our next generation their opportunity
          to live the American dream," he said. "Working together, we can."


Happenings in Washington


     ·    The 38th annual Capital Pride Parade will march through the District
          on Saturday and is expected to attract more than 100,000 spectators.


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 9, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Helps Allies Trying to Battle Iranian Hackers

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1377 words


WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration has begun helping Middle Eastern allies
build up their defenses against Iran's growing arsenal of cyberweapons, and will
be doing the same in Asia to contain computer-network attacks from North Korea,
according to senior American officials.

The American officials would not say which countries in the Persian Gulf have
signed up for help in countering Iran's computer abilities. But the list, some
officials say, includes the nations that have been the most active in tracking
Iranian arms shipments, intercepting them in ports and providing intelligence to
the United States about Iranian actions. The three most active in that arena are
Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain.

In Asia, the countries most worried about being struck by North Korean computer
attacks are South Korea and Japan.

The Defense Department's assertive new effort in the gulf and Asia is the latest
example of how the Obama administration is increasingly tailoring its national
security efforts for a new era of digital conflict, in this case assuring the
defense of computer networks and, if necessary, striking back against assaults.

A directive signed by the president that surfaced Friday -- the third in a
series of leaked documents published by the newspapers The Guardian and The
Washington Post -- underscored how the Obama administration is trying to prepare
itself and its allies. The leaks also revealed how the Obama administration has
put in place a large Internet surveillance operation to identify terrorism
threats.

The presidential directive included the declaration that the United States
reserved the right to take ''anticipatory action'' against ''imminent threats,''
a reference, it seemed, to the kind of crippling infrastructure attacks that
Iran appears to be working on against American and allied targets.

The new help for strengthening computer-network defenses for allies, which has
not been publicly announced, closely parallels earlier efforts by the Obama
administration in two volatile parts of the world. In recent years it has helped
install advanced missile-defense systems and early-warning radars in Persian
Gulf nations to counter Iran's missile ability, and it has done something
similar in Asia in response to North Korea's nuclear weapons program.

But deterring cyberattacks is a far more complex problem, and American officials
concede that this effort, which will include providing computer hardware and
software and training to allies, is an experiment. It has been propelled by two
high-profile attacks in the past year. One was against Saudi Aramco, Saudi
Arabia's largest, state-run oil producer, and according to American officials it
was carried out by Iran. That attack crippled 30,000 computers but did not
succeed in halting production. The other, an attack on South Korea's banking and
media companies this spring, was later attributed to North Korea. It froze the
ability of several banks to operate for days.

''The Iranian attack on the Saudis was a real wake-up call in the region,'' said
one senior administration official, who would not speak on the record about the
American efforts to counter Iran. ''It made everyone realize that while the
Iranians might think twice about launching a missile attack in the region, they
see cyber as a potent way to lash out in response to sanctions.''

The administration is capitalizing on the fear created by those attacks to build
on the de facto alliance against Iran that it has constructed in the region. The
Pentagon is drawing up proposals for providing advanced hardware and software
for computer-network defense that could be sold throughout the Persian Gulf,
much as American aircraft and missiles are sold to Arab allies. Training
programs are being put together to teach computer security to military and law
enforcement in the region, and to collaborate with private companies.

And, just as the Pentagon conducts naval exercises in the Persian Gulf to
practice ways of keeping the Strait of Hormuz open, officials say future joint
war games would include simulated cyberattacks, similar to the one Iran
conducted against Saudi Aramco.

The idea is to give American and allied forces practice carrying out their
missions with their networks under duress, officials said.

The new interagency effort in Washington comes at a time when Israeli and
American intelligence officials have been concerned by Iran's swift advances in
its computer weaponry, particularly its ability to disrupt existing
infrastructure. As one former senior American military commander said recently,
''They have startled everyone with the speed at which their capabilities have
increased.''

But one continuing point of dispute is whether Iran and North Korea are working
together on the development of cyberweapons, the way they have worked together
for years on the development of missile technology.

A senior Israeli military official said Israel had evidence that Iran and North
Korea were beginning to collaborate on developing cyberweapons. He declined to
cite the specific evidence.

Although there is concern in Washington that cooperation between Iran and North
Korea could spread to computer tools, American officials say there is no proof
of such collaboration.

A senior Defense Department official said the program to develop computer skills
among allies would focus solely on defending against disruptive and destructive
attacks on networks for the military and critical infrastructure. The United
States will not share its growing arsenal of offensive cyberweapons, which, like
nuclear arms, can be deployed only on presidential order.

Those have been used in only one major case: the American and Israeli attack on
Iran's nuclear enrichment system, part of a covert program called Olympic Games
that delayed, but ultimately failed to destroy, Iran's nuclear ability.

Officials pledge that computer hardware and software eventually provided to
allied nations will be evaluated to avoid providing the type of defensive
systems that also can be used for domestic surveillance or to punish political
opponents.

This new focus on adding computer-warfare skills to a global effort the Pentagon
calls ''building partner capacity'' -- and usually refers to more traditional
training of conventional forces -- is another indication of the high level of
concern in Washington about the growing danger of computer-network attacks from
Iran or North Korea.

After the attacks on energy firms in the Persian Gulf, ''we recognized that we
really need to bolster our working relationships with key allies in the
region,'' said one senior Defense Department official. ''We made a very
conscious strategy decision to make that a priority, both in the gulf and also
in Asia.''

Iran, in particular, is viewed as having greatly accelerated its computer
efforts. The advancements appear to be the result of carefully focusing the work
of a domestic computer sciences and hacking community.

The emerging Iranian program is far more disciplined and mature than Tehran's
previous efforts, which had focused on social media to coax American military
personnel based in the Middle East and Persian Gulf region to sign up for dating
and travel services, or chat rooms. The goal was to obtain the online
information from American military personnel to find back doors into military
computer systems.

In addition, American officials say Iran now is believed to be hiring foreign
computer programmers associated with Internet criminal activity, some from
Russia.

And, perhaps most worrisome, Iran and other nations now are able to purchase
powerful malware that, while costly, is available on the black and gray markets
-- and can quickly advance the potency of a nation's destructive ability across
computer networks.

In the rankings of computer powers, Iran and North Korea are far lower in
ability than the United States, Israel, Britain, Russia and China.

China and Russia, however, have strong incentives to limit the destructiveness
of their attacks; they are so tied into the global economy that anything truly
disruptive to financial or energy markets would backfire. But North Korea and
Iran, especially in times of rising tensions, would be less prone to show
restraint, American officials say.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/09/world/middleeast/us-helps-allies-trying-to-bat
tle-iranian-hackers.html

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Members of the Korea Internet Security Agency at a briefing room
after a cyberattack in March. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUNG YEON-JE/AGENCE FRANCE PRESSE)
(A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 9, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

White House Defends Data Collection, Saying Congress Was Well Informed

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1202 words


WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration tried Saturday to marshal new evidence in
defense of its collection of private Internet and telephone data, arguing that a
secret program called Prism is simply an ''internal government computer system''
designed to sort through court-supervised collection of data, and that Congress
has been briefed 13 times on the programs since 2009.

After rushing to declassify some carefully selected descriptions of the
programs, James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, conceded
for the first time that the Prism program existed. But in a statement, after
denouncing the leak of the data to The Guardian and The Washington Post, Mr.
Clapper insisted it was ''not an undisclosed collection or data mining
program.'' Instead, he said it was a computer system to ''facilitate'' the
collection of foreign intelligence that had been authorized by Congress.

Mr. Clapper also insisted that the government ''does not unilaterally obtain
information from the servers'' of telephone and Internet providers, saying that
information is turned over only under court order, when there is a ''documented,
foreign intelligence purpose for acquisition'' of the data.

He appeared to be attempting to push back against early reports that the
government had direct access to the huge computer servers at Google, Microsoft,
Facebook and similar companies. Those firms have denied they give the government
a ''back door'' to their systems.

But they acknowledge handing over material when ordered to do so by the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court, though they have not described the mechanism
for complying with those orders. It appears the companies use some kind of
electronic drop box, in which they place the material, so that the government
can then harvest the information.

The national intelligence director's rare Saturday statement was notable for
what it omitted: any description of other means the government may use to
intercept Internet information directly from fiber optic cables or satellite
systems even before or after it reaches those Internet companies.

A new report in The Guardian, published online on Saturday, cited another
document that showed that in March 2013 there were 97 billion pieces of data
collected from networks worldwide; about 14 percent of it was from Iran, much
was from Pakistan and about 3 percent came from inside the United States, though
some of that may have been foreign data traffic routed through American-based
servers.

Meanwhile, senior Obama administration officials, including the directors of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation and of national intelligence, have held 13
classified hearings and briefings for members of Congress since 2009 to explain
the broad authority they say they have to sweep up electronic records for
national security purposes, a senior administration official said Saturday.

The administration, by disclosing the briefings, sought to push back on claims
by Democrats and Republicans in Congress that they were either not aware of
programs to mine vast amounts of Internet data and business telephone records or
were insufficiently briefed on the details.

Lawmakers said that what they knew was vague and broad -- and that strict rules
of classification prevented them from truly debating the programs or conducting
proper oversight.

In separate but identical letters sent on Oct. 19, 2011, Assistant Attorney
General Ronald Weich told two of Congress's most outspoken critics of the
efforts, Senators Ron Wyden of Oregon and Mark Udall of Colorado, both
Democrats, that in December 2009 and February 2011 the Justice Department and
intelligence agencies provided a classified document to Congress describing the
surveillance efforts in detail.

The letter said the House and Senate Intelligence Committees had been briefed
''on these operations multiple times and have had access to copies of the
classified'' orders and opinions of the secret Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Court. Members of the committee were invited to share the information with other
lawmakers.

Broader briefings were held in 2011 before the reauthorization of the Patriot
Act, the post-Sept. 11 law that authorized much of the surveillance.

''Against this backdrop, we do not believe the executive branch is operating
pursuant to 'secret law' or 'secret opinions of the Department of Justice,' ''
Mr. Weich wrote. ''Rather, the intelligence community is conducting
court-authorized intelligence activities pursuant to a public statute, with the
knowledge and oversight of Congress and the Intelligence Committees of both
houses.''

On Friday, Mr. Udall and Mr. Wyden released a joint statement repeating that
they had ''long been concerned about the degree to which this collection has
relied on 'secret law.' ''

''Senior administration officials have stated on multiple occasions that the
Patriot Act's 'business records' authority is 'analogous to a grand jury
subpoena,' '' they said. They added that ''multiple senior officials have stated
that U.S. intelligence agencies do not collect information or dossiers on
'millions of Americans,' '' assertions that they believe have been contradicted
by revelations of Internet data mining and a court order asking a Verizon
subsidiary to turn over logs of telephone calls.

''Now that the fact of bulk collection has been declassified, we believe that
more information about the scale of the collection, and specifically whether it
involves the records of 'millions of Americans,' should be declassified as
well,'' they said.

The list of briefings begins on May 12, 2009, with a classified hearing of the
Senate Intelligence Committee involving Gen. Keith B. Alexander, the head of the
United States Cyber Command, and David S. Kris, assistant attorney general for
national security.

On Feb. 14, 2011, all senators were offered the opportunity to discuss the broad
authority under the Patriot Act with the director of national intelligence, Mr.
Clapper; the F.B.I. director, Robert S. Mueller III; and General Alexander. Mr.
Mueller spoke to the House Republican Conference on May 13, 2011, and to the
House Democratic Caucus on May 24, 2011.

On Feb. 8, 2011, Senators Dianne Feinstein of California, the chairwoman of the
Intelligence Committee, and Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, the ranking Republican
on the panel, invited every senator to a briefing with Mr. Clapper and Attorney
General Eric H. Holder Jr. to discuss expiring provisions of the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978.

The provisions -- ''one on roving authority for electronic surveillance and the
other on the acquisition of business records that are relevant to investigations
to protect against international terrorism or espionage'' -- were added to the
1978 law by the Patriot Act.

But Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the Senate's No. 2 Democrat, draws a
distinction between the holding of such briefings and the informed consent of
Congress. Very few lawmakers avail themselves of such briefings, he suggested,
and only the most senior leaders are kept fully abreast of intelligence
activities.

''You can count on two hands the number of people in Congress who really know,''
he said in an interview on Friday.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/09/us/politics/officials-say-congress-was-fully-b
riefed-on-surveillance.html

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                              June 9, 2013 Sunday

Intelligence Agencies and the Data Deluge

BYLINE: QUENTIN HARDY

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 900 words



HIGHLIGHT: Politicians say intelligence agencies are just looking at the
metadata, not the content, of traffic. But in many cases metadata matters more
than content.


Political leaders including President Obama and Senator Dianne Feinstein in
recent days have defended snooping on private communications by noting that
intelligence agencies were not reading personal messages, but rather information
about the messages. "This is just metadata," Senator Feinstein said at a news
conference. "There is no content involved."

In fact, say researchers in the field of data analysis, the metadata, or the
information about such things as where a message came from and when it was sent,
is frequently more valuable to security officials than the content of the
messages. It provides dense and useful information to agencies increasingly
swamped by the global computing onslaught.

A study published in Nature last March demonstrated that just four data points
about the location and time of a mobile phone call made it possible to identify
the sender 95 percent of the time. Using just two randomly chosen points, it was
possible to identify half of users. Such information can come not just from
phone companies, but also from smartphone applications or Wi-Fi hot spots.

Metadata is also useful because national security is now dealing with a deluge
of information. Researchers at IDC have determined that the amount of global
digital information, like e-mail, Twitter posts and digital photos, has risen
from about 500 billion gigabytes in 2008 to almost four trillion gigabytes this
year. By 2015, they estimate, there will be eight trillion gigabytes of material
to go through, much of it from fast-growing countries with young populations,
like China and Indonesia.

Unlike e-mails written in different languages or with personal touches, metadata
about who sent and received a message, when it was sent and from where, always
looks the same. Besides cutting down on the absolute amount of traffic to
examine, metadata makes it easy to organize information and search for patterns,
establishing social networks from individuals.

For some communications, metadata matters more than content. "A call to a
suicide hot line, Alcoholics Anonymous, or a gay sex chat room at 2 a.m. are all
more sensitive" than the actual message, said Christopher Soghoian, principal
technologist at the American Civil Liberties Union. "You can text political
donations. The metadata shows your political leanings, the content just shows
the amount you gave. Calling a cell tower away from my house in the middle of
the night indicates I'm not sleeping at home."

"Metadata is the least protected form of communications information, and that is
a shame," he said. "You just have to say it's important to an ongoing
investigation."

In the past decade, commercial cloud computing has grown powerful faster than
the rate at which highly engineered supercomputers have improved, creating more
problems for government spies. "They have better stuff than what you can get
commercially, but they're not five or six generations ahead anymore," said
Jonathan Schwartz, the former head of Sun Microsystems, which sold the
government some of its most advanced computers. "You can look at where Amazon or
Google will be in two years, and get a pretty good idea of where they are now."

To cope with its challenges, the government has put on a more open public face,
while privately making even more intense efforts. In 1999 the C.I.A. created
In-Q-Tel, an independent nonprofit venture capital arm, which it uses to get a
window on early-stage technologies. Contests like Virginia's Cyber Challenge are
modeled on talent-spotting contests that the People's Liberation Army of China
uses to spot young hackers.

Even the secretive National Security Agency has tips on improving K-12 education
for future code crackers, and offers high school students internships through
its Web site. The agency also speaks at open-source conferences, as seen in this
unusual video.

The N.S.A. maintains a museum in Fort Meade, Md., that shows off past
supercomputers and secure smartphones, as well as older machines and storied
tales, like the coded messages hobos left for one another. It is a popular stop
for tech executives after sales calls.

Privately, the N.S.A. has played hard with Internet technology companies,
seeking secret product modifications to make it easier to spy. "The pitch they
give you is not subtle," said a former executive who was involved in these
discussions. "They tell you that somewhere there is an American who is going to
be blown up; the only thing that stands between that and him living is you."

The executive, who requested anonymity to preserve his professional
relationships, said his company debated cooperating. "The first question we
asked was how big a customer they were," he said. "Then, what it would do to our
foreign sales if it got found out. Then civil liberties." When he balked, he
said, N.S.A. agents "told me they were doing 'a standard counterterrorism
assessment' on me."

His company declined to help, he said, partly because it was convinced it would
not matter. "We had former N.S.A. people working for us. They told us: 'You
don't understand. They have so many resources that they can just get what they
want. They're only asking you to make it easier for them.'"


     ·    Daily Report: U.S. Confirms That It Gathers Online Data
     ·    Syria Loses Access to the Internet
     ·    Civil Liberties Fears Doom House Cybersecurity Bill
     ·    Security Meeting Focuses on the Basics
     ·    Live Blog: Apple Conference Keynote


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (Wordplay)

                              June 9, 2013 Sunday

Casino Cry

BYLINE: DEB AMLEN

SECTION: CROSSWORDS

LENGTH: 640 words



HIGHLIGHT: Zhouquin Burnikel wins big.


 MONDAY'S PUZZLE - The seemingly perennial "PAT PAULSEN for President" campaign
was the first time (in my lifetime, as least) that I can remember seeing humor
used to poke fun at this country's political machine. In those days before "The
Daily Show" and "The Colbert Report," it was a revelation to someone who, to put
it politely, looks at things differently than her peers, and I remember even as
a young child admiring the way Mr. Paulsen skillfully skewered the persona of
the pompous politician, all the while being able to think on his feet as he
improvised somewhat coherent answers to questions at live press conferences.

Once I filled in PAT PAULSEN, and shortly thereafter PART PAYMENT, I had a brief
moment of horror when I thought the theme might involve a certain body fluid,
but that was quickly eliminated once I saw that each of the theme entries
actually had dear old dad, or PAPA, in common. I still didn't get how this was
going to be a theme (Father's Day is next week, right?) until I wound up at the
payoff at 59 Across: COME TO PAPA, or what dealers hear in a casino from excited
gamblers ("Casino cry ...") That made me laugh out loud. Nicely done, Ms.
Burnikel.

In fact, the whole puzzle is an excellent entry into our solving week. Smooth,
quick, and just the right element of surprise. We've even got a few fresh
entries today: PART PAYMENT, PAJAMA PARTY, PARALLEL PARKING and CYBER all make
their debuts. I also liked the clue for ASPS ("Snakes along the Nile," which is
the obvious sequel to the film "Snakes on a Plane") and the validation that
PARALLEL PARKING was not just tricky for me.

I didn't know that one should not eat oysters in R-LESS months, and my research
department tells me that the rule about eating oysters is only that they should
not be smelly and moldy (good to know). The R-LESS rule has received a bit of
pushback, especially on the West Coast.

In music news, no one is really sure who the "ELISE" was that Ludwig van
Beethoven had in mind when he wrote his Bagatelle No. 25 in A minor, but we can
be sure that it was definitely für her. Some people believe the woman behind the
familiar piece was Therese Malfatti, a friend and student of the composer to
whom Beethoven proposed marriage.

Zhouquin "C.C." Burnikel is the main writer of the L. A. Times Crossword Corner
blog, which obviously covers The Los Angeles Times's crossword puzzle. We've met
her before in her New York Times debut in 2012 (Across Lite, Solution, blog) and
given her obvious talent for constructing, I hope to see her again soon.

Let's meet her:

Constructor's Notes

I grew up in Xi'An, China, known for its Terra Cotta Warriors. I worked in the
food heaven Guangzhou for 6 years before moving to the U.S. in 2001.

My husband Doug, an avid bowler with 16 perfect games, got me interested in
crosswords. It was very difficult in the beginning. I could only fill in a few
words like OREO and SOSA (I like baseball.) I had no idea that most puzzles have
a theme until I read Amy Reynaldo's wonderful "How to Conquer the New York Times
Crossword Puzzle."

I started blogging the Tribune Media Daily puzzle in January of 2008 and shifted
to the Rich Norris-edited Los Angeles Times crossword when our local paper made
the switch. Like a few other crossword bloggers, I eventually caught the
construction bug. I've been incredibly lucky to have Don Gagliardo as a mentor.
He patiently taught me how to make a solid puzzle. He still does.

I want to thank Will Shortz for the opportunity and Paula Gamache for her
continuing professionalism in giving me feedback. And a big "thank you" to Jim
Horne for his very informative Xword Info.

Thanks to you too, Deb; I enjoy reading your cheerful daily post.

Thank you, Ms. Burnikel.

Your thoughts?


     ·    Fast One
     ·    Variety: A Tasty Diagramless
     ·    Trix Alternative
     ·    Too Pooped to Pop
     ·    Which Way to the Egress?


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 13, 2013 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

N.S.A. Chief Says Phone Record Logs Halted Terror Threats

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, CHARLIE SAVAGE and MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1124 words


WASHINGTON -- The director of the National Security Agency told Congress on
Wednesday that ''dozens'' of terrorism threats had been halted by the agency's
huge database of the logs of nearly every domestic phone call made by Americans,
while a senator briefed on the program disclosed that the telephone records are
destroyed after five years.

The director, Gen. Keith B. Alexander, who heads both the N.S.A. and United
States Cyber Command, which runs the military's offensive and defensive use of
cyberweapons, told skeptical members of the Senate Appropriations Committee that
his agency was doing exactly what Congress authorized after the attacks of Sept.
11, 2001.

General Alexander said he welcomed debate over the legal justification for the
program because ''what we're doing to protect American citizens here is the
right thing.'' He said the agency ''takes great pride in protecting this nation
and our civil liberties and privacy'' under the oversight of Congress and the
courts.

''We aren't trying to hide it,'' he said. ''We're trying to protect America. So
we need your help in doing that. This isn't something that's just N.S.A. or the
administration doing it on its own. This is what our nation expects our
government to do for us.''

But in his spirited exchanges with committee members, notably Senator Patrick J.
Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, General Alexander said he was seeking to declassify
many details about the program now that they have been leaked by Edward J.
Snowden, a former N.S.A. contractor who came forward to say he was the source of
documents about the phone log program and other classified matters.

Senator Dianne Feinstein, the California Democrat who is chairwoman of the
Senate Intelligence Committee, was the first to disclose that the records are
eventually destroyed. She said that she planned to hold a classified hearing on
Thursday on the program. But at the Wednesday hearing, where testimony about the
government's planned $13 billion spending on cybersecurity was largely swept
aside for a discussion of the surveillance program, Ms. Feinstein also revealed
that investigators had used the database for purposes beyond countering
terrorism, suggesting it might have also been employed in slowing Iran's nuclear
program.

Analysts can look at the domestic calling data only if there is a reason to
suspect it is ''actually related to Al Qaeda or to Iran,'' she said, adding:
''The vast majority of the records in the database are never accessed and are
deleted after a period of five years. To look at or use the content of a call, a
court warrant must be obtained.''

In a robust defense of the phone program, General Alexander said that it had
been critical in helping to prevent ''dozens of terrorist attacks'' both in the
United States and abroad and that the intelligence community was considering
declassifying examples to better explain the program. He did not clarify whether
the records used in such investigations would have been available through
individual subpoenas without the database. He also later walked back the
assertion slightly, saying the phone log database was used in conjunction with
other programs.

In his testimony, General Alexander said he had ''grave concerns'' about how Mr.
Snowden had access to such a wide range of top-secret information, from the
details of a secret program called Prism to speed the government's search of
Internet materials to a presidential document on cyberstrategy. He said the
entire intelligence community was looking at the security of its networks --
something other government officials vowed to do after the WikiLeaks disclosures
three years ago.

Under the Prism program, the N.S.A. collects information from American Internet
companies like Google without individual court orders if the request is targeted
at noncitizens abroad. That program derives from a 2008 surveillance law that
was openly debated in Congress.

As part of the review from the fallout of leaks about Prism and the phone
program, intelligence agencies will seek to determine whether terrorist suspects
have increased their use of code words or couriers, have stopped using networks
like Facebook or Skype, or have ''gone silent'' and can no longer be found,
current and former senior American officials said separately from the hearing.

The review, which will most likely last for months to determine the long-term
impact of the disclosures by Mr. Snowden, will also include a ''cost benefit
analysis'' of the programs.

''Now that it's out there, it will be looked at in a different way,'' one of the
current officials said. ''Everyone's raising questions about whether they have
been compromised and whether to continue with them at the same pace. They are
wondering whether or not they are going to continue to yield good information.''

While senior intelligence officials -- including James R. Clapper Jr., the
director of national intelligence -- have asserted that the disclosures have
significantly damaged the government's intelligence capabilities, the current
and former officials were far less sure of the lasting impact.

Philip Mudd, a former F.B.I. deputy director for national security, said that
there could be some short-term impact on the programs but that terrorists would
find it very hard to function without using electronic communications. ''Good
luck trying to communicate in this world without leaving a digital exhaust --
that's not going to happen,'' he said.

Representative Peter King, Republican of New York, called for the prosecution of
journalists who published the classified information in the documents leaked by
Mr. Snowden. Mr. King told Fox News he was specifically talking about Glenn
Greenwald, the columnist for The Guardian, whom he accused of threatening to
release the names of covert C.I.A. agents.

On Twitter, Mr. Greenwald said it was a ''lie'' that he had made such a threat,
and shot back with a reference to Mr. King's past support for the Irish
Republican Army: ''Only in America can a renowned and devoted terrorism
supporter like Peter King be the arbiter of national security and treason,'' he
wrote.

Public opinion, judging by two polls with differently worded questions that
yielded different results, is divided over the government's tracking of the
communications of Americans. In a Pew Research Center/Washington Post poll
conducted June 6-9, 56 percent of Americans said the N.S.A's program tracking
the phone records of ''millions of Americans'' was an acceptable way to
investigate terrorism, while 41 percent said it was unacceptable. But a CBS News
poll conducted June 9-10, which instead asked about collecting phone records of
''ordinary Americans,'' found that just 38 percent supported it and 58 percent
opposed it.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/13/us/nsa-chief-says-phone-record-logs-halted-ter
ror-threats.html

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. Keith B. Alexander, the director of the National Security
Agency, testified Wednesday before a Senate committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                             June 13, 2013 Thursday

Can N.S.A. Surveillance Be Likened to Chinese Spying?

BYLINE: DIDI KIRSTEN TATLOW

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1098 words



HIGHLIGHT: Amid a report that the N.S.A. gathered communications from China,
state media have begun to speak out; others ask if gathering commercial and
military secrets, and surveillance to stop terrorist attacks, can even be
likened.


BEIJING -"Snowden: American Government Invaded Chinese Computers," ran a
headline Thursday on CCTV, China's state-run television channel.

"'Prismgate': America Owes Global Netizens an Explanation," said an editorial in
the Chinese-language edition of the Global Times, a newspaper that is part of
the Communist Party-run People's Daily group.

And: "For months, Washington has been accusing China of cyberespionage, but it
turns out that the biggest threat to the pursuit of individual freedom and
privacy in the U.S. is the unbridled power of the government," the China Daily,
a state-run newspaper, quoted Li Haidong, a researcher of American studies at
China Foreign Affairs University, as saying in a story titled "Surveillance
program a test of Sino-U.S. ties."

Reaction was swelling on Thursday in China's state media to the leaks by Edward
J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency computer technician, of highly
classified documents about the United States' monitoring of Internet and
telephone communications.

And the tone appeared to be increasingly sharp, focusing on reports that the
programs included surveillance of Hong Kong and Chinese computers and people,
with the South China Morning Post reporting very early Thursday morning about
"explosive claims that the U.S. government had been hacking into computers in
Hong Kong and on the mainland for years," in an interview with Mr. Snowden
conducted at a secret location in Hong Kong.

Yet questions were being raised: Are the two events, U.S. allegations of Chinese
hacking of military and commercial secrets, and the N.S.A's surveillance
programs, even similar?

Some thought not.

Snowden's biggest harm to US isn't outing secret program, but politically
neutering US response to China's far more serious hacking campaign

- Patrick Chovanec (@prchovanec)13 Jun 13

There were plenty of accusations on China's lively Weibos, or microblogs, of
"hypocrisy" by the United States, the English-language Post reported.

Another view: "As much as we are so willing to criticize the US for their bad
behaviour," wrote Zhao Xiao, a professor at University of Science and Technology
Beijing, on his microblog, "it doesn't give China the excuse to act more evil,"
the Post reported.

Here's what Mr. Snowden said about N.S.A. surveillance of Hong Kong and mainland
China, according to the Post: "The N.S.A. had been hacking computers in Hong
Kong and on the mainland since 2009. None of the documents revealed any
information about Chinese military systems," he said.

One of the targets in Hong Kong was the Chinese University of Hong Kong, and
public officials, businesses and students in the city, the Post reported. "The
documents also point to hacking activity by the N.S.A. against mainland
targets," it wrote. "Snowden believed there had been more than 61,000 N.S.A.
hacking operations globally, with hundreds of targets in Hong Kong and on the
mainland."

In the article, Mr. Snowden used the word "hacking," instead of the more
emotionally loaded word used by CCTV, "invade." In Chinese, the word, "ruqin,"
implies actual physical invasion.

In Washington, Jen Psaki, a spokeswoman for the State Department, "rejected the
idea that such an incident would represent double standards given recent U.S.
criticism of Chinese cyber attacks," according to The Guardian newspaper, which
has led the reporting of Mr. Snowden's leaks.

"There is a difference between going after economic data and the issues of
surveillance that the president has addressed which are about trying to stop
people doing us harm," it cited Ms. Psaki as saying.

Mr. Snowden's leaks were made public last week, when the Chinese and the U.S.
presidents met in California for talks that both sides deemed important. Chinese
espionage was high on the U.S. agenda following a series of reports there about
large, sophisticated cyber-based efforts - apparently successful - from China to
extract American commercial and military secrets.

The New York Times has written about the scale and breadth of the campaign:
while cyberespionage is the focus of much attention, it has also pointed to
allegations that China has for decades waged a campaign to get technology from
the developed world, by any means necessary, as a shortcut to development.

A U.S. intelligence employee, speaking on condition of anonymity because of the
sensitivity of the issue, said the two situations - China's stealing of trade
and military secrets and N.S.A. surveillance to track possible terrorist attacks
- are not comparable, calling them "apples and oranges."

"I can tell you with absolute certainty the U.S. government does not pass on
technological secrets obtained through (strictly speaking, as a byproduct of)
espionage to U.S. firms, both as a matter of principle and because there is no
fair way to do it," he wrote in answer to an e-mailed question.

"I recall some senior bureaucrat proposing this some two decades ago - and he
got nowhere," the person wrote. "None of the agencies wanted anything to do with
it."

"China, by contrast, deliberately targets foreign technology for military and
commercial purposes, so this is apples and oranges," he wrote. "But in the
propaganda war, that fact won't matter."

Comments in The China Daily reinforced that view: "The massive U.S. global
surveillance program revealed by a former C.I.A. whistle-blower in HongKong is
certain to stain Washington's overseas image and test developing Sino-U.S.
ties," the newspaper wrote, citing analysts.

The Global Times' commentary concluded: "But in reality, we are not bystanders.
If as the Internet superpower America overstepped its capabilities, this
question directly touches on our vital interests."

As The New York Times reported from Hong Kong, Li Siling, a social media expert
at the China Executive Leadership Academy in Pudong, in Shanghai, said that Mr.
Snowden's disclosures were likely to play into the hands of those in Beijing who
favor a strong security apparatus. "They will say the U.S. is supposed to be the
most free country in the world, but they still monitor the Internet and tap
every phone," Mr. Li said.

Is it right to see similarities in stealing economic and military data and
gathering information to try to stop terrorist attacks? Is that even the issue
here? Is there hypocrisy here, and if so, from whom? The U.S.? China? Both? Tell
us what you think.


     ·    Chinese Lining Up in Record Numbers to Visit the U.S.
     ·    New Survey Finds U.S. Concerns Over a Rising China
     ·    A Deafening Silence About Chen in China
     ·    Chinese Media Decry Western Interference in Chen Case
     ·    Communist Party to U.S.: Stop Your Whining


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 14, 2013 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Promise of Changes For Access to Secrets

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and JEREMY W. PETERS; Michael S. Schmidt contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1152 words


WASHINGTON -- The chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee emerged from a
classified briefing on Thursday about the leak of top secret surveillance
programs and declared that Congress would soon consider legislation to sharply
limit the access that private contractors -- who operate much of the national
security infrastructure -- have to the nation's most sensitive intelligence
programs.

''We will certainly have legislation which will limit or prevent contractors
from handling highly classified and technical data, and we will do some other
things,'' the chairwoman, Senator Dianne Feinstein, said after a review of the
episodes attended by almost half of the members of the Senate.

Ms. Feinstein, a California Democrat, said that on Monday the National Security
Agency would release more information about the potential terrorist attacks that
had been thwarted by its surveillance programs. ''There are more than you
think,'' she said a bit cryptically. The senator has been among the most vocal
defenders of the program.

Earlier in the day, the security agency director, Gen. Keith B. Alexander, vowed
to clear up what he said were inaccuracies and misperceptions about what kind of
data the agency collects, and how it uses it. But the disclosure of any further
detail, he said, would have to navigate a delicate line between the public's
right to know and divulging material that could tip off enemies.

Edward J. Snowden, the 29-year old computer systems administrator who says he
gave the documents about the telephone monitoring program and an Internet search
program called Prism to The Washington Post and The Guardian of London, was an
employee of Booz Allen Hamilton, a private company that administers some of the
most sensitive programs for the N.S.A., the Defense Intelligence Agency and the
Central Intelligence Agency.

If Congress enacted such limits it would force a widespread change in the way
many of the country's most delicate intelligence operations are run, and would
most likely require the intelligence agencies to hire more staff members of
their own to do work that in recent years has increasingly been outsourced.

It is unclear how broadly Congress would endorse such changes.

''We have a real double standard,'' said Senator John McCain, the Arizona
Republican, as he emerged from the meeting. ''A few weeks ago we were all
complaining that we didn't have enough information about those kids in Boston
and we needed broader intelligence sharing,'' he said, referring to the two
chief suspects in the marathon bombings. ''Now we say we want to clamp down on
how the information moves.''

Intelligence officials said that limiting the role of companies like Booz Allen
would probably prove far more complex than it appears on the surface.

''These are not just operators sitting at some computer console,'' one senior
official said. ''Oftentimes, the contractors develop the systems that they are
running -- they are frequently the innovative force. You want to think twice
before you terminate that.''

A report published early this year by the office of the director of national
intelligence underscored just how difficult it would be to limit the access of
contractors. It showed that as of last Oct. 1, 483,263 contractors held Top
Secret clearances, compared with 791,200 government employees. A half-million
other contractors held lower-level secret and confidential clearances.

In a separate meeting Thursday on Capitol Hill, the director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, Robert S. Mueller III, testified to the surveillance
programs' ability to detect terrorist activity, saying that they could have
helped prevent the Sept. 11 attacks had they been in place before then. Mr.
Mueller also said that one of the programs recently helped the authorities find
a friend of the Boston Marathon bombing suspects in Florida.

General Alexander did not elaborate on what kinds of information the National
Security Agency would disclose next week, beyond saying that it would involve
statistics about the programs in question and give the public a better
understanding of how valuable they are.

''We have pledged to be as transparent as possible,'' he said after emerging
from a classified briefing with members of the House. ''I think it's important
that you have that information. But we don't want to risk American lives in
doing that. So what we're being is very deliberate in this process so that we
don't end up causing a terrorist attack by giving out too much information.''

General Alexander appeared before reporters in the Capitol flanked by the
Republican chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, Representative Mike
Rogers of Michigan, and the committee's senior Democrat, C.A. Dutch
Ruppersberger, a bipartisan show of unity reflecting the general agreement among
Congressinal leaders that the surveillance programs are worthwhile and legal.

General Alexander took no questions from the news media.

Mr. Rogers said that grave damage had been done by the disclosure of the
programs, which involve a huge database of the logs of nearly every domestic
phone call made by Americans and the collection of information from American
Internet companies like Google without individual court orders if the request is
aimed at noncitizens abroad.

''The more we know, the more dangerous this situation becomes,'' he said, adding
that people believed to be intent on doing harm to Americans were already
altering their activities since the existence of the programs became public.

Mr. Mueller said in his testimony that the N.S.A.'s surveillance programs, if in
place in 2001, could have made a difference in halting the largest terrorist
attacks in American history.

Before those attacks, he said, intelligence agencies were tracking one of the
hijackers who lived in San Diego and were also looking closely at a safe house
in Yemen for Al Qaeda.

''They understood that that Al Qaeda safe house had a telephone number, but they
could not know who was calling in to that particular -- that particular safe
house,'' he said.

''We came to find out afterwards that the person who had called in to that safe
house was al-Mihdhar, who was in the United States, in San Diego,'' he said,
referring to one of the 9/11 hijackers, Khalid al-Mihdhar. ''If we had had this
program in place at the time, we would have been able to identify that
particular telephone number in San Diego.''

The intelligence community's failure to make that connection was a subject of
extensive analysis in the independent 9/11 Commission report. It argued for far
wider intelligence sharing. But it was that kind of sharing -- placing
information that was gathered by many different intelligence agencies into
communal computer systems -- that put a slide show of the Prism program, a
ruling by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court and a presidential
directive on cyber offense and defense into Mr. Snowden's hands.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/14/us/nsa-chief-to-release-more-details-on-survei
llance-programs.html

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. Keith B. Alexander, the National Security Agency director,
vowed Thursday to clear up misperceptions about the agency. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK
WILSON/GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 16, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Profits, Defense Contractor Faces the Pitfalls of Cybersecurity

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and NICOLE PERLROTH; David E. Sanger reported from
Washington, and Nicole Perlroth from San Francisco.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1735 words


WASHINGTON -- When the United Arab Emirates wanted to create its own version of
the National Security Agency, it turned to Booz Allen Hamilton to replicate the
world's largest and most powerful spy agency in the sands of Abu Dhabi.

It was a natural choice: The chief architect of Booz Allen's cyberstrategy is
Mike McConnell, who once led the N.S.A. and pushed the United States into a new
era of big data espionage. It was Mr. McConnell who won the blessing of the
American intelligence agencies to bolster the Persian Gulf sheikdom, which helps
track the Iranians.

''They are teaching everything,'' one Arab official familiar with the effort
said. ''Data mining, Web surveillance, all sorts of digital intelligence
collection.''

Yet as Booz Allen profits handsomely from its worldwide expansion, Mr. McConnell
and other executives of the government contractor -- which sells itself as the
gold standard in protecting classified computer systems and boasts that half its
25,000 employees have Top Secret clearances -- have a lot of questions to
answer.

Among the questions: Why did Booz Allen assign a 29-year-old with scant
experience to a sensitive N.S.A. site in Hawaii, where he was left loosely
supervised as he downloaded highly classified documents about the government's
monitoring of Internet and telephone communications, apparently loading them
onto a portable memory stick barred by the agency?

The results could be disastrous for a company that until a week ago had one of
the best business plans in Washington, with more than half its $5.8 billion in
annual revenue coming from the military and the intelligence agencies. Last
week, the chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Dianne Feinstein,
whom Mr. McConnell regularly briefed when he was in government, suggested for
the first time that companies like Booz Allen should lose their broad access to
the most sensitive intelligence secrets.

''We will certainly have legislation which will limit or prevent contractors
from handling highly classified and technical data,'' said Ms. Feinstein, a
California Democrat. Senior White House officials said they agreed.

Yet cutting contractors out of classified work is a lot harder in practice than
in theory. Booz Allen is one of many companies that make up the digital spine of
the intelligence world, designing the software and hardware systems on which the
N.S.A. and other military and intelligence agencies depend. Mr. McConnell speaks
often about the need for the private sector to jolt the government out of its
attachment to existing systems, noting, for example, that the Air Force fought
the concept of drones for years.

Removing contractors from the classified world would be a wrenching change: Of
the 1.4 million people with Top Secret clearances, more than a third are private
contractors. (The background checks for those clearances are usually done by
other contractors.)

Mr. McConnell himself has been among the most vocal in warning about the risks
to contractors. ''The defense industrial base needs to address security,'' he
said in an interview with The New York Times last year, months before Booz Allen
hired Edward J. Snowden, its young systems administrator who has admitted to
leaking documents describing secret N.S.A. programs. ''It should be a condition
for contracts. You cannot be competitive in the cyber era if you don't have a
higher level of security.''

Booz Allen is saying little about Mr. Snowden's actions or the questions they
have raised about its practices. Mr. McConnell, once among the most accessible
intelligence officials in Washington, declined to be interviewed for this
article.

''This has to hurt Mike's relationship with the N.S.A.,'' said a business
associate of Mr. McConnell's who requested anonymity. ''He helped set up those
contracts and is heavily engaged there.''

Indeed, few top officials in the intelligence world have become greater
authorities on cyberconflict than the 69-year-old Mr. McConnell, who walks with
a stoop from a bad back and speaks with the soft accent of his upbringing in
Greenville, S.C. He began his career as a Navy intelligence officer on a small
boat in the backwaters of the Mekong Delta during the Vietnam War. Years later
he helped the American intelligence apparatus make the leap from an analog world
of electronic eavesdropping to the new age of cyberweaponry.

President Bill Clinton relied on Mr. McConnell as director of the N.S.A., a post
he held from 1992 to 1996. He then moved to Booz Allen as a senior vice
president, building its first cyberunits. But with the intelligence community in
disarray after its failure to prevent the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001,
the fiasco of nonexistent weapons of mass destruction in Iraq and the toll of
constant reorganization, President George W. Bush asked him to be the second
director of national intelligence from 2007 to 2009.

That was when he made his biggest mark, forcing a reluctant bureaucracy to
invest heavily in cybercapability and overseeing ''Olympic Games,'' the
development of America's first truly sophisticated cyberweapon, which was used
against Iran's nuclear enrichment program. When Mr. Bush needed someone to bring
President-elect Barack Obama up to speed on every major intelligence program he
was about to inherit, including drones and defenses against electronic
intrusions from China, he handed the task to Mr. McConnell.

But Mr. Obama was not interested in keeping the previous team, and Mr. McConnell
returned to Booz Allen in 2009. He earned more than $4.1 million his first year
back, and $2.3 million last year. He is now vice chairman, and the company
describes him as the leader of its ''rapidly expanding cyberbusiness.''

In Washington he is often Booz Allen's public face, because of his ties to the
intelligence agencies and his extensive and loyal network of federal
intelligence officials who once worked with him.

Two months ago, the company announced the creation of a Strategic Innovation
Group, staffed by 1,500 employees who are pursuing, among other projects, one of
Mr. McConnell's favorites: the development of ''predictive'' intelligence tools
that its clients can use to scour the Web for anomalies in behavior and warn of
terror or cyberattacks. He has also hired a senior counterterrorism official to
market products in the Middle East. This year, the company began working on a
$5.6 billion, five-year intelligence analysis program for the Defense
Intelligence Agency.

The company's profits are up almost eightfold since it went public in late 2010.
Its majority shareholder is the Carlyle Group, which matches private equity with
a lot of Washington power, and its executives, chief among them Mr. McConnell,
drum up business by warning clients about the potential effects of cyberweapons.

''The digital capabilities are a little bit like W.M.D.'s,'' Mr. McConnell said
in the interview last year. The good news, he said, is that countries like China
and Russia recognize limits in using those weapons, and terror groups have been
slow to master the technology. ''The people that would do us harm aren't yet in
possession of them,'' he said.

As director of national intelligence, Mr. McConnell kept a giant world map
propped up in front of his desk. Countries were sized by Internet traffic, and
the United States ballooned bigger than all others -- a fact that he told a
visitor was at once ''a huge intelligence advantage and a huge vulnerability.''

The advantage was that the United States' role as the world's biggest Internet
switching center gave it an opportunity to sort through the vast troves of
metadata -- including phone records, Internet activity and banking transactions
-- enabling analysts to search for anomalies and look for attacks in the making.
But he chafed at the legislative restrictions that slowed the process.

So in 2007, as the intelligence chief, he lobbied Congress for revisions to the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act to eliminate some of the most burdensome
rules on the N.S.A., including that it obtain a warrant when spying on two
foreigners abroad simply because they were using a wired connection that flowed
through a computer server or switch inside the United States.

It made no sense in the modern age, he argued. ''Now if it were wireless, we
would not be required to get a warrant,'' he told The El Paso Times in August of
that year.

The resulting changes in both law and legal interpretations led to many of the
steps -- including the government's collection of logs of telephone calls made
in and out of the country -- that have been debated since Mr. Snowden began
revealing the extent of such programs. Then Mr. McConnell put them into effect.

In 2007, ''Mike came back into government with a 100-day plan and a 500-day plan
for the intelligence community,'' said Stephen J. Hadley, Mr. Bush's national
security adviser. ''He brought a real sense of the private sector to the
intelligence world, and it needed it.''

The new technologies created a flood of new work for the intelligence agencies
-- and huge opportunities for companies like Booz Allen. It hired thousands of
young analysts like Mr. Snowden. The intelligence agencies snapped them up,
assigning them to sensitive, understaffed locales, including the Hawaii
listening station where Mr. Snowden downloaded his materials.

Only last month, the Navy awarded Booz Allen, among others, the first contracts
in a billion-dollar project to help with ''a new generation of intelligence,
surveillance and combat operations.''

The new push is to take those skills to American allies, especially at a time of
reduced spending in Washington. So while the contract with the United Arab
Emirates is small, it may be a model for other countries that see cyberdefense
-- and perhaps offense -- as their future. The company reported net income of
$219 million in the fiscal year that ended on March 31. That was up from net
income of $25 million in 2010, shortly after Mr. McConnell returned to the
company.

But the legal warnings at the end of its financial report offered a caution that
the company could be hurt by ''any issue that compromises our relationships with
the U.S. government or damages our professional reputation.''

By Friday, shares of Booz Allen had slid nearly 6 percent since the revelations.
And a new job posting appeared on its Web site for a systems administrator in
Hawaii, ''secret clearance required.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/16/us/after-profits-defense-contractor-faces-the-
pitfalls-of-cybersecurity.html

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mike McConnell, vice chairman of Booz Allen Hamilton, was a
director of national intelligence. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY F. CALVERT FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                    (At War)

                              June 17, 2013 Monday

How Cyberwarfare and Drones Have Revolutionized Warfare

BYLINE: TIM HSIA AND JARED SPERLI

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1436 words



HIGHLIGHT: Tim Hsia and Jared Sperli write that the next few decades will be
dominated by advancements in software and hardware (cyber and robotics,
including drones) just as the last decade was dominated by counterinsurgency.


Since World War II there have been many advances in military weaponry,
communications and technology. In early May 1942, naval forces from Imperial
Japan and the allied forces of Australia and the United States fought in the
Battle of the Coral Sea. That engagement was the first battle in which naval
ships did not shoot upon or even see the opposing force. Aircraft carriers
directly engaged one another using aircraft, with their long-distance reach, as
their sole offensive weaponry. This new type of warfare, the carrier versus
carrier, was an inevitable escalation of the air, radio and radar technology of
the day. It was viewed as a revolution in military affairs.

There is a tendency within military circles to call a particular advancement in
technology a "revolution." That was the case when former Defense Secretary
Donald Rumsfeld trumpeted technological advances as enabling the United States
to wage war in Afghanistan and Iraq without significant numbers of troops. More
often than not, an advancement in technology ends up only incrementally changing
how war is fought.

But there have been true revolutions in military affairs since the Battle of the
Coral Sea, including the development of nuclear and space weapons. And now there
is much discussion over two recent advancements in United States military
capabilities: cyberwarfare and drones.

We believe the next few decades will be dominated by advancements in software
and hardware (cyber and robotics, including drones) just as the last decade was
dominated by counterinsurgency. We also believe that historians will look back
and see advancements in cyberwarfare and robotics as the first two revolutions
in military affairs of the 21st century.

While we were deployed overseas, we saw firsthand the impact of unmanned aerial
vehicles, or drones, in a counterinsurgency fight. Drones enabled headquarters
to break through the fog of war swiftly, giving commanders greater command and
control over the battlefield. At the same time, our ability to undermine the
enemy's communications network was important in the counterinsurgency fight.
Often this involved using basic jammers to disrupt insurgents' abilities to
trigger improvised explosive devices using cellphones. While on the lower end of
the technological spectrum, those jammers saved lives.

Just as aircraft carriers allowed naval battles to extend their strike distance
to the point of aircraft versus aircraft warfare, drones are increasing the
strike distance of the military. Nanorobots will further increase the ability to
deal precise damage. Drones are often the preferred choice of policymakers
because they place no American lives at risk.

Cybertechnology also extends the reach of the military, with the Stuxnet attack
on Iran's nuclear weapons program serving as a prime example. Thanks to the
Internet, cyberwarriors can reach immediately not only into the Web-connected
world, but also into computers without direct Internet access - all without
putting Americans in harm's way.

But these advances will require policymakers to rethink the economic, political
and moral calculus for when and how to deploy robots, or when to commence a
cyberattack. Not only do the advanced technologies eliminate the problems with
having troops die on foreign soil, but they also greatly decrease the cost of
weapons. Weaponized drones are far less expensive than manned jets. Drone costs
will continue to fall and their capabilities will continue to increase as
robotics technology advances. Why buy the costly F-35 fighter jet when the
military can instead buy a fleet of weaponized drones?

Moreover, many people believe that all robots are airborne weapons. But they
have long been used by explosive ordnance soldiers when defusing bombs. As
robotic technology advances, the Terminator movies might seem less like science
fiction.

In the cyberrealm, the big costs - the satellites and fiber cables - have
already been paid for. With that infrastructure in place, a few thousand lines
of code can now be an effective weapon to inflict disarray and damage. But that
also means that securing the network is more important than ever, underscored by
the publishing of classified military and diplomatic documents by WikiLeaks and
the more recent leaks of National Security Agency records by Edward J. Snowden.

Decreasing costs can be a double-edged sword. Just as I.E.D.s became the highly
effective yet inexpensive weapons of choice for insurgents in Iraq and
Afghanistan, robots and cyber technology could be the same for adversaries
seeking to attack the United States. As costs have declined, these dual-purpose
technologies have already become widely available to both state governments and
nonstate actors.

This new type of warfare will make it harder to identify the source of an attack
using either unmanned vehicles (land, air or sea) or cyber technology. Yet after
the intelligence failures in Iraq, it will perhaps be more important than ever
for the government to be able to assure its citizens that its intelligence is
accurate about the identity of an attacker.

Yet as rapidly as this technology is developing, Americans are just beginning to
think hard about the policy implications. Many Americans have begun expressing
concerns regarding domestic drone use at home and the potential for lasting
foreign policy damage caused by the drone war in Pakistan. And the recent leaks
about NSA surveillance programs and the debate over the proposed Cyber
Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act, which would make it easier for tech
companies to share information about computer security threats with government
agencies, seem to have kindled concerns among many Americans that their own
privacy is at stake.

These new kinds of warfare seem likely to further empower the executive branch
at a time when our nation no longer declares war, potentially making the War
Powers Actseem even less constraining and thus more outdated. Ultimately, it
seems possible that these major changes will make it easier to wage war because
the risks to American servicemen have been minimized. Wars will be fought not
only by soldiers with boots on the ground but also by soldiers sitting in front
of computer and video monitors. Tomorrow's future warriors could very much
resemble today's civilian Xbox video gamers.

We are glad to see that the U.S. government is now taking an active role in
developing those future warriors with cyber competitions. This is a tactic long
used by other countries, like China. However we are concerned about how the
government expects to field a large cyber force quickly. Although efforts are
underway to train new security and cyber professionals, there is currently an
inadequate number of leaders and experienced engineers to expand this force. The
government will either have to develop its own experienced officers, or continue
to use private contractors - like Mr. Snowden, who worked for one of the
N.S.A.'s principal contractors, Booz Allen Hamilton. And filling the ranks will
be difficult, too: there is intense competition for experienced engineers in
both the cyber and robotics industries.

The future will require a nimble military that will be able to wage full
spectrum warfare from counterinsurgency in remote outposts in Afghanistan's
tribal regions to a cyberwarfare campaign possibly initiated in the basement of
a state or nonstate actor. Like other major technological changes facing society
today, the problem will not be whether or not technology can accomplish a
certain feat but whether our nation's leaders fully understand the moral, social
and political consequences of utilizing such technologies.

Tim Hsia is pursuing a J.D./M.B.A. at Stanford. He is currently in the Army
Reserves as an R.O.T.C. instructor at Santa Clara University, which offers
training for Stanford cadets. The views expressed in this post are those of the
author and do not reflect the official policy or position of the Department of
the Army, the Department of Defense or the United States government.

Jared Sperli is a founder of itSoftware, a security software company. He is
currently in the Army Reserves as an R.O.T.C. instructor at Santa Clara
University. The views expressed in this post are those of the author and do not
reflect the official policy or position of the Department of the Army, the
Department of Defense or the United States government.


     ·    Women in Combat? Some Marines React
     ·    A Veteran's Plea to President Obama
     ·    A Blog That Kept Time in Afghanistan and Iraq Plans to Shut Down
     ·    Father and Son Travel Across America to Meet Veterans
     ·    10 Mistakes of the Iraq War


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 20, 2013 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Silicon Valley and Spy Agency Bound by Strengthening Web

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN and NICK WINGFIELD; James Risen reported from Washington,
and Nick Wingfield from Seattle. Kitty Bennett contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1349 words


WASHINGTON -- When Max Kelly, the chief security officer for Facebook, left the
social media company in 2010, he did not go to Google, Twitter or a similar
Silicon Valley concern. Instead the man who was responsible for protecting the
personal information of Facebook's more than one billion users from outside
attacks went to work for another giant institution that manages and analyzes
large pools of data: the National Security Agency.

Mr. Kelly's move to the spy agency, which has not previously been reported,
underscores the increasingly deep connections between Silicon Valley and the
agency and the degree to which they are now in the same business. Both hunt for
ways to collect, analyze and exploit large pools of data about millions of
Americans.

The only difference is that the N.S.A. does it for intelligence, and Silicon
Valley does it to make money.

The disclosure of the spy agency's program called Prism, which is said to
collect the e-mails and other Web activity of foreigners using major Internet
companies like Google, Yahoo and Facebook, has prompted the companies to deny
that the agency has direct access to their computers, even as they acknowledge
complying with secret N.S.A. court orders for specific data.

Yet technology experts and former intelligence officials say the convergence
between Silicon Valley and the N.S.A. and the rise of data mining -- both as an
industry and as a crucial intelligence tool -- have created a more complex
reality.

Silicon Valley has what the spy agency wants: vast amounts of private data and
the most sophisticated software available to analyze it. The agency in turn is
one of Silicon Valley's largest customers for what is known as data analytics,
one of the valley's fastest-growing markets. To get their hands on the latest
software technology to manipulate and take advantage of large volumes of data,
United States intelligence agencies invest in Silicon Valley start-ups, award
classified contracts and recruit technology experts like Mr. Kelly.

''We are all in these Big Data business models,'' said Ray Wang, a technology
analyst and chief executive of Constellation Research, based in San Francisco.
''There are a lot of connections now because the data scientists and the folks
who are building these systems have a lot of common interests.''

Although Silicon Valley has sold equipment to the N.S.A. and other intelligence
agencies for a generation, the interests of the two began to converge in new
ways in the last few years as advances in computer storage technology
drastically reduced the costs of storing enormous amounts of data -- at the same
time that the value of the data for use in consumer marketing began to rise.
''These worlds overlap,'' said Philipp S. Krüger, chief executive of Explorist,
an Internet start-up in New York.

The sums the N.S.A. spends in Silicon Valley are classified, as is the agency's
total budget, which independent analysts say is $8 billion to $10 billion a
year.

Despite the companies' assertions that they cooperate with the agency only when
legally compelled, current and former industry officials say the companies
sometimes secretly put together teams of in-house experts to find ways to
cooperate more completely with the N.S.A. and to make their customers'
information more accessible to the agency. The companies do so, the officials
say, because they want to control the process themselves. They are also under
subtle but powerful pressure from the N.S.A. to make access easier.

Skype, the Internet-based calling service, began its own secret program, Project
Chess, to explore the legal and technical issues in making Skype calls readily
available to intelligence agencies and law enforcement officials, according to
people briefed on the program who asked not to be named to avoid trouble with
the intelligence agencies.

Project Chess, which has never been previously disclosed, was small, limited to
fewer than a dozen people inside Skype, and was developed as the company had
sometimes contentious talks with the government over legal issues, said one of
the people briefed on the project. The project began about five years ago,
before most of the company was sold by its parent, eBay, to outside investors in
2009. Microsoft acquired Skype in an $8.5 billion deal that was completed in
October 2011.

A Skype executive denied last year in a blog post that recent changes in the way
Skype operated were made at the behest of Microsoft to make snooping easier for
law enforcement. It appears, however, that Skype figured out how to cooperate
with the intelligence community before Microsoft took over the company,
according to documents leaked by Edward J. Snowden, a former contractor for the
N.S.A. One of the documents about the Prism program made public by Mr. Snowden
says Skype joined Prism on Feb. 6, 2011.

Microsoft executives are no longer willing to affirm statements, made by Skype
several years ago, that Skype calls could not be wiretapped. Frank X. Shaw, a
Microsoft spokesman, declined to comment.

In its recruiting in Silicon Valley, the N.S.A. sends some of its most senior
officials to lure the best of the best. No less than Gen. Keith B. Alexander,
the agency's director and the chief of the Pentagon's Cyber Command, showed up
at one of the world's largest hacker conferences in Las Vegas last summer,
looking stiff in an uncharacteristic T-shirt and jeans, to give the keynote
speech. His main purpose at Defcon, the conference, was to recruit hackers for
his spy agency.

N.S.A. badges are often seen on the lapels of officials at other technology and
information security conferences. ''They're very open about their interest in
recruiting from the hacker community,'' said Jennifer Granick, the director of
civil liberties at Stanford Law School's Center for Internet and Society.

But perhaps no one embodies the tightening relationship between the N.S.A. and
the valley more than Kenneth A. Minihan.

A career Air Force intelligence officer, Mr. Minihan was the director of the
N.S.A. during the Clinton administration until his retirement in the late 1990s,
and then he ran the agency's outside professional networking organization. Today
he is managing director of Paladin Capital Group, a venture capital firm based
in Washington that in part specializes in financing start-ups that offer
high-tech solutions for the N.S.A. and other intelligence agencies. In effect,
Mr. Minihan is an advanced scout for the N.S.A. as it tries to capitalize on the
latest technology to analyze and exploit the vast amounts of data flowing around
the world and inside the United States.

The members of Paladin's strategic advisory board include Richard C. Schaeffer
Jr., a former N.S.A. executive. While Paladin is a private firm, the American
intelligence community has its own in-house venture capital company, In-Q-Tel,
financed by the Central Intelligence Agency to invest in high-tech start-ups.

Many software technology firms involved in data analytics are open about their
connections to intelligence agencies. Gary King, a co-founder and chief
scientist at Crimson Hexagon, a start-up in Boston, said in an interview that he
had given talks at C.I.A. headquarters in Langley, Va., about his company's
social media analytics tools.

The future holds the prospect of ever greater cooperation between Silicon Valley
and the N.S.A. because data storage is expected to increase at an annual
compound rate of 53 percent through 2016, according to the International Data
Corporation.

''We reached a tipping point, where the value of having user data rose beyond
the cost of storing it,'' said Dan Auerbach, a technology analyst with the
Electronic Frontier Foundation, an electronic privacy group in San Francisco.
''Now we have an incentive to keep it forever.''

Social media sites in the meantime are growing as voluntary data mining
operations on a scale that rivals or exceeds anything the government could
attempt on its own. ''You willingly hand over data to Facebook that you would
never give voluntarily to the government,'' said Bruce Schneier, a technologist
and an author.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/20/technology/silicon-valley-and-spy-agency-bound
-by-strengthening-web.html

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Max Kelly (A1)
 Spy agencies invest in Silicon Valley start-ups, award classified  contracts
and recruit technology experts like Mr. Kelly. (PHOTOGRAPH BY C-SPAN) (A17)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                              June 23, 2013 Sunday

Latest Updates on Snowden's Asylum Pursuit

BYLINE: MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ and JENNIFER PRESTON

LENGTH: 5303 words



HIGHLIGHT: reporting snowden&#8217;s whereabouts


Two days after the United States charged him with espionage, Edward J. Snowden,
the former National Security Agency contractor who has admitted to disclosing
classified information about the country's government surveillance programs,
left Hong Kong and is now seeking asylum in Ecuador, the foreign minister of
Ecuador posted on Twitter. As our colleagues Keith Bradsher and Ellen Barry
report, Mr. Snowden took a flight to Moscow, where he remained at the airport on
Sunday. The Lede will be providing live updates.

8:29 P.M. | Ecuador's Foreign Minister Will Face Press Monday

A press conference tomorrow by Ecuador's foreign minister, Ricardo Patiño Aroca,
is not about Edward J. Snowden, but about Mr. Patiño's trip to Asia, a spokesman
for the foreign ministry has told my colleague William Neuman. He will discuss
Mr. Snowden only if he is asked by the press.

The point may seem moot - questions on Mr. Snowden will likely be more frequent
than, say, inquiries about Mr. Patiño's favorite restaurants in Hanoi, where the
press conference will be held. But perhaps it indicates that the Ecuadorean
government is not gathering the press for an official announcement.

In the case of Julian Assange who has taken refuge, from efforts to extradite
him to Sweden to answer allegations of sexual abuses, in Ecuador's embassy in
London, Ecuadorean lawmakers took a little time to officially approve his
request for asylum.

- Ravi Somaiya

7:24 P.M. | In Interview, Assange Describes WikiLeaks' Role

Our colleague Scott Shane interviewed Julian Assange on Sunday about the role
that he and other members of the WikiLeaks organization have been playing in Mr.
Snowden's departure from Hong Kong.

Mr. Assange, who has resided in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London for a year
because of his fugitive status, said his group had arranged for Mr. Snowden to
travel via a "special refugee travel document" issued by Ecuador last Monday -
days before the United States announced the criminal charges against him and
revoked his passport. Mr. Assange said he believed that Ecuador was still
considering Mr. Snowden's asylum application.

"He left Hong Kong with that document," Mr. Assange said.

Mr. Assange told Mr. Shane that he had raised Mr. Snowden's case with Ecuador's
foreign minister in a meeting at the embassy last Monday.

Mr. Assange said it was unclear whether Mr. Snowden's passport was revoked
before he left Hong Kong. But, he said, Mr. Snowden was informed of the
revocation when he landed in Moscow. He said it was uncertain whether and where
Mr. Snowden might be able to travel from Moscow using the Ecuadorean document,
which he described as a "safe pass."

"Different airlines have different rules, so it's a technical matter whether
they will accept the document," he said.

He added that the rights of refugees to travel were guaranteed by various
international treaties.

Mr. Assange said that when he sought refuge in the Ecuadorean Embassy to avoid
being sent to Sweden for questioning in a sexual offense investigation, Ecuador
gave him "initial protection" immediately and followed up two months later with
a formal grant of asylum. He suggested that a similar process might be in effect
with Mr. Snowden.

Mr. Assange remains in the embassy a year later, since the British authorities
have not permitted him to leave without risking arrest and transfer to Sweden.
He has said he is concerned less about the inquiry than the possibility that
Sweden might subsequently send him to the United States to face possible charges
in connection with WikiLeaks' disclosures.

Whether Mr. Snowden could end up in a similar predicament - perhaps accepted by
Ecuador or another country but unable to get there - remains to be seen.

- Scott Shane

6:28 P.M. | Snowden Is Elusive, Even Within Airport

None of the world's news media, gathered at Sheremetyevo International Airport
in Moscow, have yet laid eyes on Edward J. Snowden, which has prompted some
Kremlinology, my colleague Ellen Barry reports.

The Web portal Gazeta.ru reported that around 1:30 a.m., a light was on at the
second floor of the Ecuadorean Embassy, and that security appeared to be
heightened.

Russian news outlets have reported that Mr. Snowden will spend the night at a
capsule hotel in the airport. Roman Alekseyev, a manager who answered the phone
at the hotel on Sunday, said he could not release any information about the
report that Mr. Snowden was there. Rooms at the hotel would cost about 5,500
rubles (about $170) for a 12-hour stay in a double, he said. Mr. Alekseyev said
that because the hotel is in the airport's transit zone, it has a special legal
status and is not considered Russian territory.

Vozdushny Ekspress, the capsule hotel where Snowden may or may not be napping.
RT @RT_russian: ([#x424]O[#x422]O) http://t.co/rgD87NMvlm

- Ellen Barry (@EllenBarryNYT)23 Jun 13

The latest, unconfirmed reports in the airport also suggested that Mr. Snowden
might be in the V.I.P. hall, which is also behind passport control.

- Ravi Somaiya

5:05 P.M. | Snowden Shouldn't Be Allowed to Travel, Official Says

A State Department official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said that
the United States was advising governments that Mr. Snowden "should not be
allowed to proceed in any further international travel, other than is necessary
to return him to the United States."

"The United States has been in touch via diplomatic and law enforcement channels
with countries in the Western Hemisphere through which Snowden might transit or
that could serve as final destinations. The U.S. is advising these governments
that Snowden is wanted on felony charges, and as such, should not be allowed to
proceed in any further international travel, other than is necessary to return
him to the United States."

- Steven Lee Myers

4:45 P.M. | Lawmakers Threaten 'Consequences' for Putin

Lawmakers in the United States accused Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, on
Sunday of being complicit in Mr. Snowden's decision to fly from Hong Kong to
Moscow, and warned of possible harm to relations between the two countries if he
was not handed over.

Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said Mr. Putin was "aiding and
abetting Snowden's escape."

"Allies are supposed to treat each other in decent ways, and Putin always seems
almost eager to put a finger in the eye of the United States, whether it is
Syria, Iran, and now, of course, with Snowden," Mr. Schumer said on CNN's "State
of the Union." "That's not how allies should treat one another, and I think it
will have serious consequences for the United States-Russia relationship."

Mr. Schumer did not say specifically what those consequences might be. Since Mr.
Putin returned to the presidency last year, relations between the United States
and Russia have soured significantly, and few new avenues of cooperation have
emerged. Moreover, Mr. Putin has accused the United States of supporting his
political rivals in Russia, though Washington denies this.

When Mr. Obama entered the presidency, he vowed to hit a "reset" button on
relations with Russia in the hopes of turning around years of mutual rancor and
suspicion.

Speaking on Fox News on Sunday, Representative Peter T. King, Republican of New
York, suggested that Mr. Snowden's arrival in Russia could snuff out with the
last vestiges of those early hopes.

"The president should be in contract with Putin saying that this whole reset
button with Russia that's off if Putin allows him to leave the country and does
not send him back to the United States," he said.

He added, referring to Mr. Snowden: "This guy is a traitor, he's a defector. He
is not a hero."

[Video: Representative Peter T. King speaking about Mr. Snowden on Fox News on
Sunday. Watch on YouTube.]

3:51 P.M. | Russian Official: Revoked Passport Will Not Stop Travel

Russian law enf official tells Ifax that Snowden's lack of a passport will not
prevent his travel to Latin America. http://t.co/eg3dvZHWbT

- Ellen Barry (@EllenBarryNYT)23 Jun 13

Ellen Barry, a Moscow correspondent for The Times, posteda report from Interfax,
the Russian news agency, on Twitter that quotes a Russian law enforcement agency
official saying Mr. Snowden would not be prevented from leaving Russia because
he has no passport.

Obama administration officials confirmed that Mr. Snowden's American passport
was revoked Saturday in an effort to prevent him from traveling. It was not
clear whether the passport was revoked before he left Hong Kong.

"As is routine and consistent with U.S. regulations, persons with felony arrest
warrants are subject to having their passport revoked," Jennifer R. Psaki, a
spokeswoman for the State Department, said in a statement. "Such a revocation
does not affect citizenship status. Persons wanted on felony charges, such as
Mr. Snowden, should not be allowed to proceed in any further international
travel, other than is necessary to return him to the United States."

Citing the Privacy Act, Ms. Psaki said she could not specifically discuss Mr.
Snowden's passport.

A Russian law enforcement official, speaking on the condition of anonymity to
Interfax, said Mr. Snowden would be allowed to continue on his journey even if
the United States authorities had annulled his passport.

If his American passport was really invalidated, "the authorities of that
country could give him a refugee document or supply him with Ecuadorean
citizenship in a special procedure," the official said. "With these documents,
he could definitely continue his path to Latin America."

David H. Laufman, a former federal prosecutor, said it appeared that the
administration had flubbed Mr. Snowden's case in at least two ways.

"What mystifies me is that the State Department didn't revoke his passport after
the charges were filed" on June 14, Mr. Laufman said. "They missed an
opportunity to freeze him in place."

He also said he was puzzled by the decision to unseal the criminal charges on
Friday, possibly prompting Mr. Snowden to flee. The standard practice in such
cases is to unseal the charges only after the defendant is in custody, he said.

- Ellen Barry, Steven Lee Myers and Scott Shane

3:38 P.M. | N.S.A. Chief Says Snowden Caused 'Irreversible Damage'

[Video: Gen. Keith B. Alexander, the director of the National Security Agency,
on ABC's "This Week." Watch on YouTube.]

In an interview on ABC's "This Week," Gen. Keith B. Alexander, the director of
the National Security Agency, accused Mr. Snowden of leaks that have done
"irreversible damage" to American intelligence efforts against terrorism and
other threats.

"This is not an individual who in my opinion was acting with noble intent,"
General Alexander said in an interview with George Stephanopoulos.

He said the agency was working on building safeguards against leaks by computer
systems administrators, the job that Mr. Snowden held while working for the
contractor Booz Allen Hamilton at an N.S.A. station in Hawaii. He said the
agency had changed passwords and was implementing a "two man rule" to reduce the
chance that a lone dissenter like Mr. Snowden could make off with sensitive
data.

ABC News provided a rush transcript of the interview.

On the CBS program, "Face the Nation," Senator Dianne Feinstein of California,
the Democratic chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said she did not
believe that Mr. Snowden was a whistle-blower.

"I want to get him caught and brought back for trial," she said, in part to
preclude more disclosures by him. She said intelligence officials had told her
that Mr. Snowden "could have over 200 separate items" of classified documents.

- Scott Shane

2:23 P.M. | Snowden's WikiLeaks Companion

As Mr. Snowden waits in an airport transit terminal in Moscow, planning his next
steps, he is being counseled by a close adviser to Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks
founder.

WikiLeaks said in a statement on Sunday that the adviser, Sarah Harrison,
traveled with Mr. Snowden when he left for Moscow from Hong Kong, where he has
resided since first revealing classified documents about United States
government surveillance this month.

On Sunday, WikiLeaks said Mr. Snowden was bound for Ecuador from Moscow, and the
Ecuadorean ambassador confirmed that he had requested asylum there. Mr. Assange,
who has been trying to gain asylum in Ecuador, has been holed up in the
Ecuadorean Embassy in London for about a year amid British attempts to extradite
him to Sweden.

Ms. Harrison is a British citizen who is working with the WikiLeaks legal
defense team, the WikiLeaks statement said. She has also worked at the Bureau of
Investigative Journalism and the Center for Investigative Journalism in Britain,
the statement said.

In a  from last year, Ms. Harrison is shown announcing the release of a cache of
e-mails from high-ranking Syrian government officials obtained by WikiLeaks.

[Video: Ms. Harrison discussing Syrian government e-mails. Watch on YouTube.]

1:36 P.M. | Video of Ecuador Foreign Minister Meeting With Assange

[Video: A video showing Ecuador's foreign minister meeting last week with Julian
Assange at the Ecuadorean Embassy in London. Watch on YouTube.]

Britain's Press Association posted a video on YouTube showing Julian Assange
meeting last week with Ricardo Patiño Aroca, Ecuador's foreign minister, at the
Ecuadorean Embassy in London. The report did not say whether Mr. Assange
discussed Mr. Snowden's possibly seeking asylum in Ecuador.

On Saturday, Mr. Assange issued a statement, asking for support for Mr. Snowden.

On Sunday, after Mr. Snowden left Hong Kong, Mr. Aroca posted on Twitter that
Mr. Snowden was seeking asylum in Ecuador.

1:34 P.M. | WikiLeaks Says Snowden Is Bound for Ecuador

WikiLeaks has released a statement saying that Mr. Snowden "is bound for the
Republic of Ecuador."

The statement:

Mr. Edward Snowden, the American whistle-blower who exposed evidence of a global
surveillance regime conducted by U.S. and U.K. intelligence agencies, has left
Hong Kong legally. He is bound for the Republic of Ecuador via a safe route for
the purposes of asylum, and is being escorted by diplomats and legal advisors
from WikiLeaks.

Mr. Snowden requested that WikiLeaks use its legal expertise and experience to
secure his safety. Once Mr. Snowden arrives in Ecuador his request will be
formally processed.

Former Spanish Judge Mr. Baltasar Garzon, legal director of WikiLeaks and lawyer
for Julian Assange, has made the following statement:

"The WikiLeaks legal team and I are interested in preserving Mr Snowden's rights
and protecting him as a person. What is being done to Mr. Snowden and to Mr.
Julian Assange - for making or facilitating disclosures in the public interest -
is an assault against the people."

12:58 P.M. | Snowden Has Requested Asylum in Ecuador, Minister Says

On Twitter, Ricardo Patiño Aroca, the foreign minister for Ecuador, posted that
Mr. Snowden had submitted a request for asylum.

The Government of Ecuador has received an asylum request from Edward J. #Snowden

- Ricardo Patiño Aroca (@RicardoPatinoEC)23 Jun 13

Earlier on Sunday, the Ecuadorean ambassador arrived at the airport in Moscow
and told reporters that he would be meeting with Mr. Snowden.

Ecuadorean ambassador arrives at Moscow airport hotel, tells journalists he
expects to meet Edward #Snowden - Reuters

- James Glynn (@jamesglynn)23 Jun 13

11:57 A.M. | Hong Kong Is Likely to Have Consulted With Beijing

A person knowledgeable about the Hong Kong government's handling of Mr. Snowden
said Sunday evening that he was sure that Hong Kong officials had consulted with
the Chinese government on how to handle the case. The rough consensus in Beijing
is that Mr. Snowden's presence in Hong Kong posed a threat to Chinese-American
relations after President Xi Jinping has tried to improve them, said the person,
who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of diplomatic sensitivities.

Yet public opinion in Hong Kong and mainland China has made it impossible simply
to send him back to the United States, the person said.

"We can't force him to leave, the best we can do is induce him to leave," said
the person, adding that Mr. Snowden had decided to leave on his own.

The basic issue for Beijing was that public opinion in Hong Kong and mainland
China was clearly shifting toward protecting him from the United States.
Mainland Chinese officials "will be relieved he's gone - the popular sentiment
in Hong Kong and China is to protect him because he revealed United States
surveillance here, but the governments don't want trouble in the relationship,"
the person said.

The result had been a policy driven by expedience, in which Beijing and Hong
Kong both wanted Mr. Snowden to leave even though officials in both places
deeply and sincerely appreciated what he had done to expose American
intelligence activities on their soil. "It may not be the most honorable thing,
but it is true," the person said.

The Hong Kong government was dismayed that the United States chose to include
espionage in its charges against Mr. Snowden, because that created clear
complications under the bilateral agreement between Hong Kong and the United
States for the surrender of fugitives. The agreement specifically excludes the
surrender of fugitives from political cases.

"If they really want him back, they wouldn't have put that in - they would have
just put that he stole something," said the person knowledgeable about the
government's handling of the case.

Another person in Hong Kong with a deep understanding of Hong Kong's
relationship with Beijing agreed that the mainland Chinese government and the
Hong Kong government were both hoping Mr. Snowden would leave, although both
were reluctant to take any direct action to push him out. "It saved both sides
possible embarrassment if he left," said the second person, who was not involved
in the Snowden decision but knew intimately the institutional framework in which
the decision was made.

Hong Kong's laws prescribe that the Chinese government control Hong Kong's
foreign policy. So no decision to let Mr. Snowden leave would have been made
without consulting the Chinese government, said the second person, who also
insisted on anonymity because of diplomatic sensitivities. "This must have been
done in full consultation with Beijing," the second person said.

By exposing American surveillance in Hong Kong and mainland China, Mr. Snowden
has already done much for China, while holding on to him could have created a
serious diplomatic problem, the second person said. "Beijing has gotten the most
they can out of the Snowden situation," the second person said.

- Keith Bradsher

11:58 a.m.  | Russian News: Snowden Checked Into Moscow Airport Hotel

As goose chase continues, Ifax reports that Snowden will remain in airport
transit area bc he doesn't have a visa. http://t.co/gG97DoWOAu

- Ellen Barry (@EllenBarryNYT)23 Jun 13

Ellen Barry, our correspondent in Moscow, posted on Twitter a report from
Interfax, a Russian news service, that said Mr. Snowden would remain in the
airport transit area because he does not have a visa.

According to the Interfax report, Mr. Snowden will leave Moscow on a plane bound
for Cuba, but there were no details about when the plane is supposed to depart.

The next flight to Havana from Moscow is scheduled to leave Monday at 2:05 p.m.
Moscow time.

Mr. Snowden had checked into a hotel in Sheremetyevo's Terminal E.

"He cannot leave the terminal because he does not have a Russian visa," a source
told Interfax. The source said that Sarah Harrison, an employee of WikiLeaks who
is traveling with Mr. Snowden, has a Russian visa.

Russia Today, Russia's English-language television station, reported that Mr.
Snowden had been visited in the airport by officials from the Ecuadorean
Embassy, including a doctor.

#Snowden has been examined by doctor from Ecuador embassy at Moscow airport - RT
source http://t.co/iWpyC5cic6

- RT (@RT_com)23 Jun 13

The Russian news media have reported that Mr. Snowden might ultimately try to
fly to Ecuador or Venezuela.

Embassy of Ecuador cars parked outside Moscow airport, Snowden reportedly inside
#snowden http://t.co/UbLvxzvJU9 http://t.co/PTkSxfeBvc

- Joanna Ruck (@joannaruck)23 Jun 13

Update: It seems that some officials from the Ecuadorean Embassy have had
trouble locating Mr. Snowden.

Ecuadorian ambassador inside Sheremtyevo airport rather confused: "Do you know
where he is?" "We thought you did?"

- Miriam Elder (@MiriamElder)23 Jun 13

11:31 A.M. | Guardian Columnist: Snowden's Final Destination Unknown

Glenn Greenwald, the columnist for The Guardian who initially broke the news of
Mr. Snowden's disclosures, said on NBC's "Meet the Press" that Mr. Snowden's
ultimate destination was "up in the air."

"Where he's ultimately headed is unknown," Mr. Greenwald said. He said that Mr.
Snowden was "forced to flee" because the Obama administration "is engaged in an
unprecedented war against whistle-blowers."

Pressed about why the former N.S.A. contractor thought that oversight by
Congress and other checks on the agency were inadequate, Mr. Greenwald said Mr.
Snowden brought a folder he had labeled "N.S.A. Lying to Congress" to their
first meeting. Mr. Greenwald noted that James R. Clapper Jr., the director of
national intelligence, has admitted that his statement in March to Congress that
N.S.A. was not collecting data on millions of America was false.

Representative Mike Rogers, the Republican chairman of the House Intelligence
Committee, said on the same program that it "defies logic" that Mr. Snowden,
after criticizing surveillance in the United States, would flee to more
authoritarian countries like Cuba, Russia or Venezuela.

Mr. Rogers said Mr. Greenwald had mischaracterized a still-secret ruling by the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court as proving that the N.S.A. was violating
the law. In fact, he said, the court found that the N.S.A. had "overcollected"
information for technical reasons and that the agency had moved to fix the
problem.

"This is judicial review, and there was judicial pushback," Mr. Rogers said. He
said Congress, too, was informed of the over-collection, and that those internal
checks had worked as designed to keep the agency under tight control.

- Scott Shane

10:53 A.M. | Video: ABC News Report of Snowden's Departure

[Video: VIDEO: ABC News coverage of Edward J. Snowden's departure from Hong
Kong. Watch on YouTube.]

10:40 A.M. | Hong Kong's Official Statement on Snowden's Exit

The official statement from the Hong Kong government released Sunday announcing
Mr. Snowden's departure.

Mr. Edward Snowden left Hong Kong today (June 23) on his own accord for a third
country through a lawful and normal channel.

The U.S. government earlier on made a request to the HKSAR government for the
issue of a provisional warrant of arrest against Mr. Snowden. Since the
documents provided by the U.S. government did not fully comply with the legal
requirements under Hong Kong law, the HKSAR government has requested the U.S.
government to provide additional information so that the Department of Justice
could consider whether the U.S. government's request can meet the relevant legal
conditions. As the HKSAR government has yet to have sufficient information to
process the request for provisional warrant of arrest, there is no legal basis
to restrict Mr. Snowden from leaving Hong Kong.

The HKSAR government has already informed the U.S. government of Mr. Snowden's
departure.

Meanwhile, the HKSAR government has formally written to the U.S. government
requesting clarification on earlier reports about the hacking of computer
systems in Hong Kong by U.S. government agencies. The HKSAR government will
continue to follow up on the matter so as to protect the legal rights of the
people of Hong Kong.

10:52 A.M. | Chinese Statement on Reports of U.S. Surveillance

On Sunday, the Chinese Foreign Ministry responded to reports that Edward J.
Snowden had left Hong Kong, and voiced "grave concern" about allegations,
attributed to Mr. Snowden, that the National Security Agency had hacked Chinese
telecommunications systems and a Web site operated by Tsinghua University in
Beijing. A spokeswoman said that China had already raised those allegations with
the United States.

In a statement on the ministry's Web site, the spokeswoman, Hua Chunying, said
of Mr. Snowden's departure: "We have seen the reports, but still have no
understanding of the specific situation and are continuing to monitor
developments."

Ms. Hua did not comment directly on whether the Chinese government had played
any role in hastening Mr. Snowden's departure, but she cited the "one country,
two systems" principle whereby Beijing gives Hong Kong considerable autonomy to
make many of its own administrative decisions.

"The central government has consistently respected the Hong Kong special
administrative region government in handling matters according to the law," she
said, referring to the central authorities in Beijing.

In a comment on the reports of American hacking of Chinese Web sites, Ms. Hua
said: "We express grave concern about the recently disclosed cases of the U.S.
government agency in question engaging in cyber attacks against China, and this
again demonstrates that China is a victim of cyber attacks."

"We have already made representations to the U.S. side about this," she said.

- Christopher Buckley

10:15 A.M. | Senator Warns Russia Not to Harbor Snowden

In Washington, a leading Republican senator, Lindsey Graham of South Carolina,
said there would be "consequences" should Russia elect to shelter Mr. Snowden.

"I believe he hurt our nation, he compromised our national security program,"
Mr. Graham, a member of the Armed Services Committee, said on "Fox News Sunday."
"The freedom trail is not exactly China-Russia-Cuba-Venezuela, so I hope we'll
chase him to the ends of the Earth, bring him to justice and let the Russians
know there'll be consequences if they harbor this guy."

"If they want to be part of the world community, the W.T.O., they want a good
relationship with the United States, they should hold this fellow and send him
back home for justice," he said, referring to the World Trade Organization.

Russia joined the W.T.O. two years ago after nearly two decades of talk over its
rights practices and trade restrictions.

Another Republican senator, Mike Lee of Utah, also questioned Mr. Snowden's
possible choice of destinations. "Mr. Snowden is delusional," he said on Fox,
"if he thinks that he's going to find a country with a better human rights
record in Moscow or in Havana or in Caracas, and I think he's in for a rude
awakening if that's what he's got in mind."

- Brian Knowlton

10:09 A.M. | U.S. Dept. of Justice Statement on Snowden

Nanda Chitre, a Justice Department spokeswoman, on Sunday confirmed that Mr.
Snowden had left Hong Kong.

"As we stated yesterday, the United States had contacted authorities in Hong
Kong to seek the extradition of Mr. Snowden, based on the criminal complaint
filed in the Eastern District of Virginia, and in accordance with the U.S.-Hong
Kong Agreement for the Surrender of Fugitive Offenders," she said. "We have been
informed by the Hong Kong authorities Mr. Snowden has departed Hong Kong for a
third country. We will continue to discuss this matter with Hong Kong and pursue
relevant law enforcement cooperation with other countries where Mr. Snowden may
be attempting to travel."

- Charles Savage

9:54 A.M. | Video of WikiLeaks Adviser, Sarah Harrison

Mr. Snowden is said to be assisted by Sarah Harrison, who was an adviser to
Julian Assange when WikiLeaks released the diplomatic cables three years ago.
The WikiLeaks organization said that Ms. Harrison "has courageously assisted Mr.
Snowden with his lawful departure from Hong Kong and is accompanying Mr. Snowden
in his passage to safety."

She can be seen in this YouTube video giving a talk about Syria at the Frontline
Club in Britain last year.

[Video: Sarah Harrison speaking last May at a conference about Syria. Watch on
YouTube.]

10:05 A.M. | Black Car Reportedly Picks Up Snowden

[Video: Video of flight from Hong Kong to Moscow with Mr. Snowden landing on
Sunday. Watch on YouTube.]

Witnesses aboard a flight from Hong Kong to Moscow believed to be carrying Mr.
Snowden said a black car pulled up beside the plane after it landed in Russia.
Russia Today, Russia's English-language television station, later reported that
the car belonged to the embassy of Ecuador, though the Interfax news service,
citing anonymous sources, reported that representatives from Venezuela met Mr.
Snowden after he left the plane.  No witnesses have reported seeing Mr. Snowden
on the flight or in the airport in Moscow.

9:52 A.M. | WikiLeaks and Julian Assange Statements on Snowden

In a statement, the WikiLeaks organization said that Mr. Snowden had requested
that WikiLeaks "use its legal expertise and experience to secure his safety."

Mr. Snowden requested that WikiLeaks use its legal expertise and experience to
secure his safety. Once Mr. Snowden arrives at his final destination his request
will be formally processed.

Former Spanish Judge Mr. Baltasar Garzon, legal director of Wikileaks and lawyer
for Julian Assange, has made the following statement:

"The WikiLeaks legal team and I are interested in preserving Mr. Snowden's
rights and protecting him as a person. What is being done to Mr. Snowden and to
Mr. Julian Assange - for making or facilitating disclosures in the public
interest - is an assault against the people."

The organization also published a statement by its founder, Julian Assange, on
Mr. Snowden's behalf, that was made Saturday. The statement said the United
States government's decision to charge Mr. Snowden was intended "to intimidate
any country that might be considering standing up for his rights."

"That tactic must not be allowed to work," it said. "The effort to find asylum
for Edward Snowden must be intensified."

Our colleagues, Ms. Barry and Mr. Bradsher, report that sources said  Mr.
Snowden's goal was to travel to Venezuela.

9:50 A.M. | WikiLeaks Assists and Live Tweets Snowden's Exit

Edward #Snowden has just now landed in Moscow on flight SU 213
http://t.co/Lyvcno0upo ... http://t.co/kYJCOQNEhh   http://t.co/svGMShQLsn

- WikiLeaks (@wikileaks)23 Jun 13

Mr. Snowden's exit from Hong Kong on a Moscow-bound airliner, was assisted and
live tweeted by people affiliated with WikiLeaks, the organization that released
extensive classified American diplomatic communications three years ago. On
Twitter, the group posted Sunday that it was assisting Mr. Snowden.

FLASH: WikiLeaks has assisted Mr. Snowden's political asylum in a democratic
country, travel papers ans safe exit from Hong Kong. More soon.

- WikiLeaks (@wikileaks)23 Jun 13

Edward Snowden will touchdown in Moscow in under twenty minutes
http://t.co/kYJCOQNEhh ... http://t.co/svGMShQLsn #snowden

- WikiLeaks (@wikileaks)23 Jun 13

Edward #Snowden has just now landed in Moscow on flight SU 213
http://t.co/Lyvcno0upo ... http://t.co/kYJCOQNEhh   http://t.co/svGMShQLsn

- WikiLeaks (@wikileaks)23 Jun 13

9:27 A.M. | Snowden Arrives in Moscow

Snowden's plane is descending, soon to land at Sheremetyevo.
https://t.co/cwIfgwQRXn

- Ellen Barry (@EllenBarryNYT)23 Jun 13

Russian officials have confirmed that a plane believed to be carrying Edward J.
Snowden, who departed Hong Kong on Sunday, has landed in Moscow.

It is not clear how long Mr. Snowden will remain in Russia. Russia's Interfax
news agency, citing a source with the Russian carrier Aeroflot, reported earlier
that he would fly from Moscow via Havana to Caracas, Venezuela. This has not
been officially confirmed.


     ·    Video of Assange's Speech at the Ecuadorean Embassy in London
     ·    The Stickers on Edward Snowden's Laptop
     ·    David Simon, Creator of 'The Wire,' Debates N.S.A. Surveillance With
          Readers of His Blog
     ·    N.S.A. Whistle-Blower Revealed in Video
     ·    Video of American's Arrest in Moscow


LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (India Ink)

                              June 24, 2013 Monday

India-U.S. Relations: The Search for a Transformative Moment

BYLINE: SALMAN KHURSHID

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1600 words



HIGHLIGHT: India and the United States need to build upon the success of the
civil nuclear deal and work toward the next defining moment.


India and the world have changed dramatically in the past two decades. The
relationship between India and the United States has strengthened spectacularly
and brought substantive gain to both countries. It has also given birth to great
expectations. The management and fulfilment of those expectations is crucial for
the dialogue and partnership between the two countries.

The India-U.S. Strategic Dialogue 2013 comes at a critical moment. India is
increasingly focused on the forthcoming national elections. President Barack
Obama, in his second term, is looking at the legacy he would bequeath to his
country and the world.

The relationship between India and the United States has been driven by both the
bilateral governmental interface and the natural affinity and attraction between
their citizens. The liberal philosophical moorings of some of the first leaders
of independent India, shared values of democracy and freedom, and admiration for
the American Constitution, brought us together. A growing number of Indian
students and professionals sought educational and work opportunities in the
United States alongside India's engagement with the Non-Aligned Movement and the
Soviet Union.

The intrinsic bond between two liberal democracies was captured in the iconic
photograph of President John F. Kennedy and Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru by
the Potomac in Washington. And the subsequent distances in our relationship were
evoked well by a photo characterized by the stiff body language of President
Richard M. Nixon and Prime Minister Indira Gandhi years later.

From "estranged democracies" to "engaged democracies," it has been a long and
fascinating journey for India and the United States. India is exploring and
absorbing in myriad ways its transition from being a country subjected to select
American sanctions to becoming a strategic partner of the United States.

In the Indian discovery of America and the American discovery of India,
increased expectations, timely delivery on commitments, agreed-upon mutual
course corrections and consolidation of gains would be crucial.

India-U.S. Strategic Dialogue provides opportunities to measure the distance
traveled and to map the future. The elements of contemporary international
relations are complex. Strands of real or perceived ideology and self-interest
intertwine to shape and shade the global fabric. The United States has fought
valiantly in Afghanistan and India will willingly make its contribution to the
peace and rehabilitation effort in its own characteristic and calibrated manner.
Peace is indivisible and must come as a whole, not in pieces, both in our
neighborhood and beyond. There is much scope for joint reflection on these
matters.

Attempts to create a better world are as challenging as resolving conflicts.
Sustainable development and climate change, an equitable and efficient world
trade system, food and energy security, cyber security and counter-terrorism
strategies are all matters on which there are differing and divided opinions
across the globe. The G8 and G20 nations have yet to bridge the gaps in
perception and strategies of the developing and the developed countries even as
the emerging economies attempt to straddle the two sides.

It makes it imperative for the India-U.S. Strategic Dialogue to succeed in the
interest of our two countries and the world. In the lives of nations, as in the
lives of people, the right moment can achieve what years of effort strove for.
India and the United States found that transformative moment in the signing of
the Civil Nuclear Agreement. We need to build upon that success and work towards
the next defining moment.

Every nation seeks partners and friends. India and the United States are no
exception, but we are currently tasked to nurture the strategic partnership that
we already have in place and to which we are mutually committed to preserve and
protect. The pressures and difficulties posed by our domestic politics and
economics, the unresolved issues of the world, must not deter us.

The challenge before us is to reconcile competing self-interests and combine
them into enlightened mutual interest. That is not a simple matter of persuasive
arguments and attractive power point presentations. We both have constraints of
democracy, which are exacerbated by the different levels of development and
corresponding demands of our respective economies, societies and people.

For instance, India at the moment is relatively low on carbon emissions. But
those will increase as we address the developmental needs of our people, unless
adequately provided to adapt to low-emission technology that is obviously
costly.

Developing countries like India expect that the United States and other
developed countries will agree to binding targets to cut emissions, having had
the advantage of several centuries of development. This competing logic applies
to many sectors. The solutions lie in our mutual convergence at a middle ground.
The very purpose of dialogue is to find common ground and to creatively conceive
a point of agreement where there is none. It is important that ours is a
dialogue that flows from our partnership and not one to create a relationship.

India is not impervious to the pressures the United States faces as it walks the
fiscal cliff, tries to revive its economy, addresses persisting unemployment,
and the inevitable demands from its businessmen and people that the US
government pursue policies for preferential domestic production and services to
protect jobs.

Many of our own aspirations are linked with increased demand for goods and
services in the United States. India expects her friends in the West to
understand how tough a current account deficit can be on a developing economy,
how important it is that information technology and pharmaceuticals-the sectors
of our economy that have provided the cutting edge to India's growth and boosted
our middle class - be supported and encouraged. In India today, social activists
and the courts are vigorously scrutinizing public servants, which impacts
response time. There is a steep learning curve as we take the reform road. Our
fiercely autonomous Parliament and judiciary, reflecting the separation of
powers, have to be taken on board to ensure a satisfactory response to our
collective aspirations. This will be speeded up with important conceptual
strides that we hope to take soon.

Secretary of State John Kerry will be received in India as a familiar name and
face, having been a key figure in U.S. foreign policy as chairman of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee during a period of great significance to India. It
will be an opportunity for him to reconnect with several old friends and
discover new ones. It will indeed be an honor for me to sit across the table
from him at Hyderabad House and draw plans for taking our relationship forward,
both between the two of us as indeed for our countries.

As we look from Raisina Hill to Capitol Hill, we can see President Obama and
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh wrapping up a decade of eventful cooperation later
this year. That provides us with an impetus to further the spirit of working
together that was underscored by the historic Indian-U.S. Civil Nuclear
Agreement and the contemporaneous paradigm shift in perceptions.

The road ahead is the very road that was signposted by milestones such as the
meeting of my predecessor, Foreign Minister S. M. Krishna with Secretary Hillary
Rodham Clinton. The signposts of strategic partnership will hopefully have
sectors such as clean energy, innovation in science and technology, peaceful use
of nuclear energy, space, education and skills development, securing global
supply chains, interdict illicit finance flows and counterfeit currency,
intelligence sharing, enhanced cyber security, and the expansion of trade and
investment.

Finally in the realm of defense, we hope our relationship is not merely a
buyer-seller relationship, but a true strategic partnership involving joint
research, manufacture of equipment, training of personnel and military
exercises.

The building blocks of such a partnership are in place, but they need to be
cemented by sustained and enhanced political will. We are able to talk and
listen even where convergent and common positions take time to formulate.

Long journeys require pauses. We might pause and rest, but we aren't reluctant
travelers. Traffic rules in our respective countries might mandate us to drive
on different sides of the road, the spirit of the July 2005 joint statement and
November 2010 joint statement of Prime Minister Singh and President Obama has
brought us on a shared path and agreed destination. We need to watch the speed,
not lose time, and yet not be reckless.

Secretary Kerry and I won't only judge how the engines are running, but also
reaffirm how the spirit of adventure remains undiminished. As we drive past the
fields of opportunity, I paraphrase the lines of the great American poet Robert
Frost that Prime Minister Nehru loved to quote: "The woods are lovely, dark and
deep, but I have promises to keep; And miles to go before I sleep; And miles to
go before I sleep." The dialogue between India and the United States will be an
objective look at the miles ahead but also a reaffirmation of our strategic
partnership.

Salman Khurshid is India's Minister for External Affairs.


     ·    What They Said: The U.S. Election
     ·    The New New Thing in U.S.-Indian Relations?
     ·    'Kissinger Cables' Offer Window Into Indian Politics of the 1970s
     ·    Diwali Greetings From Near and Far
     ·    A Conversation With: Conservative Author and Filmmaker Dinesh D'Souza


LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 28, 2013 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pentagon Is Updating Conflict Rules In Cyberspace

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 730 words


WASHINGTON -- The Pentagon is updating its classified rules for warfare in
cyberspace for the first time in seven years, an acknowledgment of the growing
threat posed by computer-network attacks -- and the need for the United States
to improve its defenses and increase the nimbleness of its response, the
nation's top military officer said Thursday.

The officer, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, also
said that, globally, new regulations were needed to govern actions by the world
community in cyberspace. He said that the Chinese did not believe that hacking
American systems violated any rules, since no rules existed.

Discussing efforts to improve the Pentagon's tools for digital defense and
offense, General Dempsey said the military must be ''able to operate at network
speed, rather than what I call swivel-chair speed.''

''Cyber has escalated from an issue of moderate concern to one of the most
serious threats to our national security,'' he said. ''We now live in a world of
weaponized bits and bytes, where an entire country can be disrupted by the click
of mouse.''

Under a presidential directive, the Pentagon developed ''emergency procedures to
guide our response to imminent, significant cyberthreats,'' and is ''updating
our rules of engagement -- the first update for cyber in seven years,'' he said.
This effort has resulted in the creation of what General Dempsey called an
interagency ''playbook for cyber.''

During a speech at the Brookings Institution, a policy research center, General
Dempsey said these new ''standing rules of engagement'' for military actions
remained in draft form, and had not yet been approved.

In his first major address on the new, virtual domain of computer warfare,
General Dempsey gave an outline of what a significant attack might look like,
and how the United States might respond.

If the nation's critical infrastructure came under attack from poisonous code
over a computer network from overseas, the first effort would be gathering
information on the malware and the systems under attack. Network defenses would
be in place, as ''our first instinct will be to pull up the drawbridge and
prevent the attack, that is to say, block or defend,'' he said.

If the attack could not be repulsed, the new playbook calls for ''active
defense,'' which General Dempsey defined as a ''proportional'' effort ''to go
out and disable the particular botnet that was attacking us.'' It is notable
that, in this situation, the line between active defense and offense might be
blurry.

''If it became something more widespread and we needed to do something beyond
that, it would require interagency consultation and authorities at a higher
level in order to do it,'' he said. Although these plans are classified, his
statement indicated that the rules for responding in an escalated manner in
cyberspace, or with a conventional retaliation, would require decisions by the
civilian leadership.

General Dempsey's speech drew a clear distinction between the nation's two major
efforts in cyberspace. The military's role is in defending computer networks
and, if so ordered by the president, carrying out offensive attacks. That is
related to, but separate from, the intelligence community's efforts to gather
intelligence in cyberspace. Several of those highly classified
intelligence-gathering programs were exposed via leaks from a former contract
worker for the National Security Agency.

Assessing adversaries in cyberspace, General Dempsey said that China, in
particular, had chosen a niche in stealing intellectual property. ''Their view
is that there are no rules of the road in cyber,'' General Dempsey noted. He
said American and Chinese officials would meet over coming days to discuss ways
to ''to establish some rules of the road, so that we don't have these friction
points in our relationship.''

The military headquarters responsible for computer-network warfare, the United
States Cyber Command, will grow by 4,000 personnel with an additional investment
of $23 billion, General Dempsey said. (Cyber Command and the National Security
Agency are led by the same officer, Gen. Keith B. Alexander.)

''We are doing all of this not to address run-of-the mill cyberintrusions, but
to stop attacks of significant consequence -- those that threaten life, limb and
the country's core economic functioning,'' General Dempsey said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/28/us/pentagon-is-updating-conflict-rules-in-cybe
rspace.html

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 29, 2013 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

F.B.I. Will Fight the Mafia With Fewer Investigators

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 970 words


The New York office of the F.B.I. confronts an array of challenges -- from cyber
and financial crime to global terrorism -- that would have been unimaginable
half a century ago when it first squared off in earnest against the mob. And so,
in recent years, more and more agents have been assigned to those modern threats
and fewer to the L.C.N., the bureau's shorthand for La Cosa Nostra.

Now, for the third time in five years, the office is reducing the number of
agents assigned to traditional organized crime cases, bringing the total
remaining to roughly three dozen, people with knowledge of the changes said.
Those agents are responsible for investigating some 700 so-called made members
and 7,000 associates. The number of squads focused exclusively on the city's
five crime families will be reduced to two from three. The cuts will leave about
60 percent fewer agents in New York City investigating the mob than in 2008,
when there was -- as there had been for decades -- a separate squad of 10 to 20
agents devoted to each crime family.

The changes come after two decades of success in the fight against the mob, and
they have met with mixed reviews within the Federal Bureau of Investigation and
at some of the other agencies that, over the years, worked to wrest the mob's
grip from some industries and loosen it over others.

Some see the changes as a necessary evolution, a reaction to the changing nature
of crime and threats to the nation in a time of tight budgets. Others fear the
reductions could allow the city's five weakened crime families -- the Gambinos,
the Bonannos, the Colombos, the Genoveses and the Lucheses -- to grow stronger,
regroup and reassert themselves.

The head of the New York F.B.I. office, assistant director George Venizelos,
declined to discuss specific staffing numbers but acknowledged the cuts, citing
terrorism and other priorities, the F.B.I.'s budget and what he called the mob's
changing footprint. He suggested, however, that the changes were not set in
stone. ''That doesn't mean we're not going to increase it in six months'' if
circumstances warrant, he said, adding, ''we're just trying to be more
flexible.''

''That's where the challenge is -- you want to stay on top of the L.C.N., and
you don't want it to be back where it used to be,'' he said. ''Would I like
another 100 agents or so? Of course we would, but we have to deal with what we
have.''

Other F.B.I. offices in cities where traditional organized crime families have
long exerted influence have seen similar cutbacks. Ten years ago in the Chicago
office, for example, two squads with 12 agents each were devoted exclusively to
investigating La Cosa Nostra. Now only one squad with 12 agents focuses on the
mob, a person briefed on those changes said.

Prof. James B. Jacobs, the director of the Center for Research in Crime and
Justice at New York University School of Law who has written extensively about
organized crime, construction and labor unions, said the reductions presented a
potential problem, but that a re-examination of the bureau's priorities was long
overdue.

''We just don't have enough resources,'' Mr. Jacobs said, adding that James B.
Comey's nomination to succeed Robert S. Mueller III as F.B.I. director could
present an opportunity for just such a review. He also said that state and local
governments should play a greater role in investigating organized crime cases.

The hallmark of organized crime has long been the ability of its more
imaginative members to find creative ways to penetrate, corrupt and control
industries, and thus separate the government, businesses and citizens from their
money. Coupled with the omnipresent threat of violence and more mundane schemes,
it remains an enduring presence in certain sectors of the economy and certain
neighborhoods around the city.

Over the years, the mob has found its way into more and more sophisticated
schemes, feeding on everything from the stock market to the Internet and the
health care and telecommunications industries, all while remaining entrenched in
construction and staples like gambling, loan-sharking and extortion.

A resurgent mob, officials fear, could drive up the costs of a range of goods
and services in the city, including private carting, construction, health
insurance and restaurant linens.

''The problem hasn't gone away,'' said one senior F.B.I. investigator, who like
others interviewed for this article, spoke on the condition of anonymity because
they did not want to publicly criticize their superiors. ''Just because you put
a guy away,'' he said, ''they replace him. They make new guys. Unless you stay
on top of it, you won't know who those guys are.'' And if you don't know who
they are, he said, you can't keep up with what they are doing.

The investigator, along with several other current and former officials,
cautioned that the reduced number of agents assigned to handle organized crime
cases would not only limit the nature and number of cases that the bureau can
pursue, but also slow the flow of the informers -- the key to most
investigations -- to a trickle.

Informers also serve an important role in helping investigators track
developments in mob families: the makeup of the hierarchy, promotions, the
induction of new members and their daily activities.

Under the old model, there was one F.B.I. squad responsible for investigating
and gathering intelligence on each of the city's five mafia families. At any
given time, a squad might be investigating several larger and smaller cases
against crime figures.

With the cutbacks, one squad, known by the internal designation C5, which
previously had handled the Genovese family, will also be responsible for the
Bonannos and the Colombos. Another squad, C16, which had long investigated the
Gambino family, is now also responsible for the Lucheses.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/29/nyregion/fbi-will-fight-the-mafia-with-fewer-i
nvestigators.html

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:   Believed to have been set up by John Gotti, a mob boss, Paul
Castellano, was killed outside Sparks Steakhouse in 1985. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY
WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 30, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Agony of Ecstasy

BYLINE: By CLANCY MARTIN.

Clancy Martin is the author of the novel ''How to Sell.'' His next book, ''Love,
Lies, and Marriage,'' will be published in 2014.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 855 words


TAIPEIBy Tao Lin

248 pp. Vintage Contemporaries. Paper, $14.95.

If you're bookish and you don't know the name Tao Lin, you're probably over 30.
Among 20-something readers, he's an established phenomenon, a kind of literary
typhoon and tycoon. Not that Lin has made much money from his books (or so, at
least, he reports). He seems to be writing for the best reason, the only reason
-- because he's a writer. He may well be one of those crazy, splendid people
who, as Charles Bukowski put it, if marooned on a desert island would use a
stick to scratch stories in the sand.

But it's the Internet age, and that's where Lin has made his mark. He's one of
the kings of that empire of online bootstrappers. I should admit, though, that I
don't know his work through the Web -- I'm a middle-aged philosophy professor,
someone who still buys books with paper pages -- but I started following him
through the irresistibly bland, almost silent, but oddly frightening miniatures
he's been publishing in the literary journal Noon. When I read some of his
longer fiction, like ''Richard Yates'' and ''Shoplifting From American
Apparel,'' I knew this guy was going to be somebody. His writing is weird,
upsetting, memorable, honest -- and it's only getting better.

But I didn't anticipate ''Taipei,'' his latest, which is, to put it bluntly, a
gigantic leap forward. Here we have a serious, first-rate novelist putting all
his skills to work. ''Taipei'' is a love story, and although it's Lin's third
novel it's also, in a sense, a classic first novel: it's semi-autobiographical
(Lin has described it as the distillation of 25,000 pages of memory) and it's a
bildungsroman, a coming-of-age story about a young man who learns, through love,
that life is larger than he thought it was.

As in most accounts of self-education, Lin's hero, Paul, is a traveler, moving
from the debilitating boredom of Brooklyn -- depicted, accurately or not, as the
most bourgeois place on the planet -- to Las Vegas (where he marries the love
interest of the novel, Erin) and Toronto and Baton Rouge, to his parents' home
in Taiwan and to many places in between. In fact, traveling is Paul's way of
being, much more than his pill-popping (which is also nonstop, but doesn't seem
to have much influence on his way of thinking).

Paul's existence depends on walking, sitting in cabs, flying on planes, riding
in the backs of cars. Like his constant presence online -- Lin shows us Paul and
his friends G-chatting, e-mailing, tweeting, checking Facebook -- he's always
either somewhere other than where he just was, or on his way to somewhere else.
Here Lin is reminding us of an interesting fact about contemporary life:
physical travel has become almost as effortless and ­commonplace as cyber
travel. Which might mean we aren't so much distracted as we are always running
away from home.

Travel has traditionally been a way for people to realize that their own
perspectives are limited, that there's more to the world and other people than
they'd assumed. Travel helps you to mature; thus the tradition of the
''wander-year,'' on which this novel depends. And for a time we worry that
nothing will break through the icy superficiality that characterizes the lives
of Paul and his friends -- not so dissimilar from the superficiality of Jake and
his crowd in ''The Sun Also Rises,'' but here Xanax and Ecstasy take the place
of Burgundy, Champagne and gin. Yet by the time Paul and Erin are in Taipei, we
notice that something different is happening to them. Rather than talking about,
they start talking to. They start listening. During a long and intimate
discussion of their sex lives, Paul finds himself focusing on their
''conversation, which was producing its own, unmediated emotions.''

Most of us take it for granted that we should focus on our conversations and the
emotions they produce. But we take it for granted while sitting in a restaurant
with a spouse, sending texts or checking Facebook or Googling the movie we're
going to see. Slowly, without pretending to have any great breakthroughs, Paul
and Erin start to love each other more; they start to become more involved, more
aware, less superficial. They find themselves doing things, rather than merely
watching things. For the aptly named Paul, a conversion is on its way: life is
changing from the aesthetic to the ethical. Like Lin's simple but never flat
prose, his characters have become authentic.

Lin is, however, also suspicious of notions like sincerity and authenticity, and
Paul is reluctant to let go of the protective irony that has defined his youth.
The real threat to him is love: ''He wanted to move backward and close the door
and be alone again, in the bathroom, but Erin had already noticed him and, after
a pause, distracted by her attention, he reciprocated her approach. They hugged
a little, near the center of the room, then he turned around and moved toward
the kitchen -- dimly aware of the existence of other ­places, on Earth, where he
could go -- and was surprised when he heard himself, looking at his feet
stepping into black sandals, say that he felt 'grateful to be alive.' ''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/30/books/review/taipei-a-novel-by-tao-lin.html

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: Tao Lin (DRAWING BY KEITH WITMER)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 1, 2013 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Job Title Key To Inner Access Held by Leaker

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1743 words


WASHINGTON -- Intelligence officials refer to Edward J. Snowden's job as a
National Security Agency contractor as ''systems administrator'' -- a bland name
for the specialists who keep the computers humming. But his last job before
leaking classified documents about N.S.A. surveillance, he told the news
organization The Guardian, was actually ''infrastructure analyst.''

It is a title that officials have carefully avoided mentioning, perhaps for fear
of inviting questions about the agency's aggressive tactics: an infrastructure
analyst at the N.S.A., like a burglar casing an apartment building, looks for
new ways to break into Internet and telephone traffic around the world.

That assignment helps explain how Mr. Snowden got hold of documents laying bare
the top-secret capabilities of the nation's largest intelligence agency, setting
off a far-reaching political and diplomatic crisis for the Obama administration.

Even as some members of Congress have challenged the N.S.A.'s collection of logs
of nearly every phone call Americans make, European officials furiously
protested on Sunday after Mr. Snowden's disclosure that the N.S.A. has bugged
European Union offices in Washington and Brussels and, with its British
counterpart, has tapped the Continent's major fiber-optic communications cables.

On Sunday evening, The Guardian posted an article saying documents leaked by Mr.
Snowden show 38 embassies and missions on a list of United States electronic
surveillance targets. Some of those offices belong to allies like France, Italy,
Japan and Mexico, The Guardian said.

Mr. Snowden, who planned his leaks for at least a year, has said he took the
infrastructure analyst position with Booz Allen Hamilton in Hawaii in March,
evidently taking a pay cut, to gain access to a fresh supply of documents.

''My position with Booz Allen Hamilton granted me access to lists of machines
all over the world the N.S.A. hacked,'' he told The South China Morning Post
before leaving Hong Kong a week ago for Moscow, where he has been in limbo in
the transit area of Sheremetyevo airport. ''That is why I accepted that position
about three months ago.''

A close reading of Mr. Snowden's documents shows the extent to which the
eavesdropping agency now has two new roles: It is a data cruncher, with an
appetite to sweep up, and hold for years, a staggering variety of information.
And it is an intelligence force armed with cyberweapons, assigned not just to
monitor foreign computers but also, if necessary, to attack.

After the 2001 terrorist attacks, the documents suggest, the N.S.A. decided it
was too risky to wait for leads on specific suspects before going after relevant
phone and Internet records. So it followed the example of the hoarder who
justifies stacks of paper because someday, somehow, a single page could prove
vitally important.

The agency began amassing databases of ''metadata'' -- logs of all telephone
calls collected from the major carriers and similar data on e-mail traffic. The
e-mail program was halted in 2011, though it appears possible that the same data
is now gathered in some other way.

The documents show that America's phone and Internet companies grew leery of
N.S.A. demands as the years passed after 9/11, fearing that customers might be
angry to find out their records were shared with the government. More and more,
the companies' lawyers insisted on legal orders to compel them to comply.

So the N.S.A. came up with a solution: store the data itself. That is evidently
what gave birth to a vast data storage center that the N.S.A. is building in
Utah, exploiting the declining cost of storage and the advance of sophisticated
search software.

Those huge databases were once called ''bit buckets'' in the industry --
collections of electronic bits waiting to be sifted. ''They park stuff in
storage in the hopes that they will eventually have time to get to it,'' said
James Lewis, a cyberexpert at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies, ''or that they'll find something that they need to go back and look for
in the masses of data.'' But, he added, ''most of it sits and is never looked at
by anyone.''

Indeed, an obscure passage in one of the Snowden documents -- rules for
collecting Internet data that the Obama administration wrote in secret in 2009
and that the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court approved -- suggested that
the government was concerned about its ability to process all the data it was
collecting. So it got the court to approve an exception allowing the government
to hold on to that information if it could not keep up. The rules said that
''the communications that may be retained'' for up to five years ''include
electronic communications acquired because of the limitation on the N.S.A.'s
ability to filter communications.''

As one private expert who sometimes advises the N.S.A. on this technology put
it: ''This means that if you can't desalinate all the seawater at once, you get
to hold on to the ocean until you figure it out.''

Collecting that ocean requires the brazen efforts of tens of thousands of
technicians like Mr. Snowden. On Thursday, President Obama played down Mr.
Snowden's importance, perhaps concerned that the manhunt was itself damaging the
image and diplomatic relations of the United States. ''No, I'm not going to be
scrambling jets to get a 29-year-old hacker,'' the president said during a stop
in Senegal.

Mr. Obama presumably meant the term to be dismissive, suggesting that Mr.
Snowden (who turned 30 on June 21) was a young computer delinquent. But as an
N.S.A. infrastructure analyst, Mr. Snowden was, in a sense, part of the United
States' biggest and most skilled team of hackers.

The N.S.A., Mr. Snowden's documents show, has worked with its British
counterpart, Government Communications Headquarters, to tap into hundreds of
fiber-optic cables that cross the Atlantic or go on into Europe, with the N.S.A.
helping sort the data. The disclosure revived old concerns that the British
might be helping the N.S.A. evade American privacy protections, an accusation
that American officials flatly deny.

And a secret presidential directive on cyberactivities unveiled by Mr. Snowden
-- discussing the primary new task of the N.S.A. and its military counterpart,
Cyber Command -- makes clear that when the agency's technicians probe for
vulnerabilities to collect intelligence, they also study foreign communications
and computer systems to identify potential targets for a future cyberwar.

Infrastructure analysts like Mr. Snowden, in other words, are not just looking
for electronic back doors into Chinese computers or Iranian mobile networks to
steal secrets. They have a new double purpose: building a target list in case
American leaders in a future conflict want to wipe out the computers' hard
drives or shut down the phone system.

Mr. Snowden's collection of pilfered N.S.A. documents has cast an awkward light
on officials' past assurances to Congress and the public about their concern
about Americans' privacy.

It was only in March that James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national
intelligence, told a Senate committee that the N.S.A. did not collect data on
millions of Americans. Mr. Snowden's records forced Mr. Clapper to backtrack,
admitting his statement was false.

Last week, two senators challenged even the accuracy of a fact sheet prepared by
the N.S.A. to counter Mr. Snowden's claims about the phone data and Internet
collection programs. Agency officials did not defend themselves; the fact sheet
simply disappeared, without explanation, from the agency's Web site.

Newly disclosed slides from an N.S.A. PowerPoint presentation on the agency's
Prism database of Internet data, posted on Saturday by The Washington Post,
reveal that the F.B.I. plays a role as middleman between the N.S.A. and Internet
companies like Google and Yahoo. The arrangement provides the N.S.A. with a
defense, however nominal, against claims that it spies on United States soil.

Even in the unaccustomed spotlight after the N.S.A. revelations, intelligence
officials have concealed more than they have revealed in careful comments,
fearful of alerting potential eavesdropping targets to agency methods. They
invariably discuss the N.S.A.'s role in preventing terrorist attacks, an agency
priority that the public can easily grasp.

In fact, as Mr. Snowden's documents have shown, the omnivorous agency's
operations range far beyond terrorism, targeting foreigners of any conceivable
interest. British eavesdroppers working with the N.S.A. penetrated London
meetings of the Group of 20 industrialized nations, partly by luring delegates
to fake Internet cafes, and the N.S.A. hacked into computers at Chinese
universities.

At Fort Meade, on the N.S.A.'s heavily guarded campus off the
Baltimore-Washington Parkway in Maryland, such disclosures are seen as
devastating tip-offs to targets. The disclosure in Mr. Snowden's documents that
Skype is cooperating with orders to turn over data to the N.S.A., for example,
undermined a widespread myth that the agency could not intercept the
voice-over-Internet service. Warned, in effect, by Mr. Snowden, foreign
officials, drug cartel leaders and terrorists may become far more careful about
how, and how much, they communicate.

''We're seeing indications that several terrorist groups are changing their
communications behavior based on these disclosures,'' one intelligence official
said last week, speaking on the condition of anonymity. ''We're going to miss
tidbits that could be useful in stopping the next plot.''

Mr. Snowden's breach is an unplanned test of the N.S.A.'s decades-old conviction
that it can operate effectively only under absolute secrecy. The agency is
conducting a damage assessment -- a routine step after major leaks -- but the
assessment itself is likely to remain classified.

The N.S.A.'s assessment of Mr. Snowden's case will likely also consider what has
become, for intelligence officials, a chilling consideration: there are
thousands of people of his generation and computer skills at the agency, hired
in recent years to keep up with the communications boom.

The officials fear that some of them, like young computer aficionados outside
the agency, might share Mr. Snowden's professed libertarian streak and
skepticism of the government's secret power. Intelligence bosses are keeping a
closer eye on them now, hoping that there is not another self-appointed
whistle-blower in their midst.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/07/01/us/job-title-key-to-inner-access-held-by-snowd
en.html

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James R. Clapper Jr., director of national intelligence. Edward
J. Snowden's records forced him to backtrack on testimony. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN
WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                              July 2, 2013 Tuesday

In an Online Campaign, Teaching Sex Education via Social Media

BYLINE: WINNIE HU

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 722 words



HIGHLIGHT: A project called &#8220;theSEXword&#8221; seeks to harness social
media to educate gay and bisexual men about the risks of contracting H.I.V. and
AIDS.


The online banter was too steamy to ignore.

Gregory Johnson, a soft-spoken young man using the screen name "Adonis," talked
up sex to several hundred of his closest Facebook friends this spring. Once he
had their attention, he sent a racy snapshot of two square wrappers tucked into
his underwear along with a plea: Why not use a condom?

It was only a matter of time before the social media keeping friends and family
connected and amused was pressed into public service. Just as antismoking ads
have come to saturate the airwaves, a flurry of personalized messages promoting
H.I.V. testing and protected sex have popped up on thousands of smartphones,
iPads and laptops in recent months.

The online campaign is the work of an unusual health project in the Bronx, which
seeks to harness social media to educate gay and bisexual men about the risks of
contracting H.I.V. and AIDS. The project, called "theSEXword," recruited seven
men and one woman who is transgender to build an online forum for sharing
safe-sex messages with people who would never bother to pick up a brochure. It
was funded with $25,000 from the Center for AIDS Research, a joint program of
Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx.

"It's one on one; it's directly to them," said Kamari Perkins, 22, one of the
eight cyber messengers. "They're more receptive to someone they know than
someone they don't."

In New York City, there were 3,404 newly diagnosed cases of H.I.V. in 2011, of
which Brooklyn had the highest number (983), followed by Manhattan (866) and the
Bronx (662), according to city health statistics. In total, 51 percent of all
newly diagnosed cases were among men who reported having sex with men.

"The objective was to reach this hard-to-reach population and do it in an
efficient way," said Dr. Viraj V. Patel, a doctor at Montefiore, who oversaw the
project with Dr. David W. Lounsbury, a medical researcher at Einstein.
Montefiore currently treats about 5,500 people with H.I.V. in outpatient
programs, for a total of more than 15,500 people since 1997.

The doctors turned to Sage Rivera, 31, a community leader, who tapped people for
the project with connections to different crowds, from recent immigrants to
those dabbling in subcultures like Goth and graffiti. The group of eight, called
peer leaders, range in age from 15 to 27 and have varied backgrounds and
interests.

For instance, Mr. Johnson, 24, is popular in the cyberworld with more than
20,000 followers combined on social media sites, including Facebook and Twitter.
Another is a dancer, and still another, a gay rights activist. As Mr. Rivera put
it, arguments erupt all the time because "they don't speak the same, they don't
have the same history."

In a basement computer lab in a Montefiore building, the peer leaders have met
weekly to share ideas and tips for getting their messages heard. They are paid a
nominal stipend of $35 per meeting, plus travel expenses.

"Don't make it too preachy," Mr. Johnson advised. "You just want to make it
cool. You want to speak the way they speak."

Mr. Johnson explained that he engages in the sex talk because if he just posted
a message about H.I.V., his friends would skip over it. "I have a lot of friends
who are H.I.V. positive, so I feel like I'm actually doing something to help,"
he said.

By the project's count, the peer leaders have reached more than 50,000 people
through social media. They have received back more than 1,600 responses (likes,
comments, re-tweets, etc.). At their request, their friends and acquaintances
have also completed nearly 300 online surveys about their individual H.I.V.
testing history to collect data for research.

Teddy Reyes, 18, said that since he joined the project, he has helped persuade a
dozen of his friends to get tested for H.I.V. On a recent afternoon, he began
his online campaign by posting 20 funny slogans about condoms on Tumblr,
including No. 6: "No glove, no love."

"People don't want to talk about it because it's so serious," he said. "But if
you make it funny, that gives people a way to feel comfortable about it."


     ·    Zoo Chief's First Tweet Stars a 650-Pound Tortoise
     ·    Doffing Its Hat and The Times T Beneath It
     ·    80-Year-Old Widow Is the Rage on Twitter
     ·    Judge Rules That Protester Can't Oppose Twitter Subpoena
     ·    Protester's Lawyer Challenges Twitter Subpoena


LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 3, 2013 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Battle Against H.I.V., Using Facebook and Twitter

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 700 words


The online banter was too steamy to ignore.

Gregory Johnson, a soft-spoken young man using the screen name ''Adonis,''
talked up sex to several hundred of his closest Facebook friends this spring.
Once he had their attention, he sent a racy snapshot of two square wrappers
tucked into his underwear along with a plea: Why not use a condom?

It was only a matter of time before the social media that keeps friends and
family connected and amused was pressed into public service. Just as antismoking
ads have come to saturate the airwaves, a flurry of personalized messages
promoting H.I.V. testing and protected sex have popped up on thousands of
smartphones, iPads and laptops in recent months.

The online campaign is the work of an unusual health project in the Bronx, which
seeks to harness social media to educate gay and bisexual men about the risks of
contracting H.I.V. and AIDS. The project, called ''theSEXword,'' recruited seven
men and one woman who is transgender to build an online forum for sharing
safe-sex messages with people who would never bother to pick up a brochure. It
was financed with $25,000 from the Center for AIDS Research, a joint program of
Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx.

''It's one on one; it's directly to them,'' said Kamari Perkins, 22, one of the
eight cyber messengers. ''They're more receptive to someone they know than
someone they don't.''

In New York City, there were 3,404 newly diagnosed cases of H.I.V. in 2011, of
which Brooklyn had the highest number (983), followed by Manhattan (866) and the
Bronx (662), according to city health statistics. In total, 51 percent of all
newly diagnosed cases were among men who reported having sex with men.

''The objective was to reach this hard-to-reach population and do it in an
efficient way,'' said Dr. Viraj V. Patel, a doctor at Montefiore, who oversaw
the project with Dr. David W. Lounsbury, a medical researcher at Einstein.
Montefiore currently treats about 5,500 people with H.I.V. in outpatient
programs, for a total of more than 15,500 people since 1997.

The doctors turned to Sage Rivera, 31, a community leader, who tapped people for
the project with connections to different crowds, from recent immigrants to
those dabbling in subcultures like Goth and graffiti. The group of eight, called
peer leaders, range in age from 15 to 27 and have varied backgrounds and
interests.

For instance, Mr. Johnson, 24, is popular in the cyberworld with more than
20,000 followers combined on social media sites, including Facebook and Twitter.
Another is a dancer, and still another, a gay rights activist. As Mr. Rivera put
it, arguments erupt all the time because ''they don't speak the same, they don't
have the same history.''

In a basement computer lab in a Montefiore building, the peer leaders have met
weekly to share ideas and tips for getting their messages heard. They are paid a
nominal stipend of $35 per meeting, plus travel expenses.

''Don't make it too preachy,'' Mr. Johnson advised. ''You just want to make it
cool. You want to speak the way they speak.''

Mr. Johnson explained that he engages in the sex talk because if he just posted
a message about H.I.V., his friends would skip over it. ''I have a lot of
friends who are H.I.V. positive, so I feel like I'm actually doing something to
help,'' he said.

By the project's count, the peer leaders have reached more than 50,000 people
through social media. They have received back more than 1,600 responses (likes,
comments, retweets). At their request, their friends and acquaintances have also
completed nearly 300 online surveys about their individual H.I.V. testing
history to collect data for research.

Teddy Reyes, 18, said that since he joined the project, he has helped persuade a
dozen of his friends to get tested for H.I.V. On a recent afternoon, he began
his online campaign by posting 20 funny slogans about condoms on Tumblr,
including No. 6: ''No glove, no love.''

''People don't want to talk about it because it's so serious,'' he said. ''But
if you make it funny, that gives people a way to feel comfortable about it.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://cityroom.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/07/02/in-an-online-campaign-teaching-sex-
education-via-social-media/

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gregory Johnson, center, looked for videos and information about
H.I.V. awareness during a meeting in the Bronx. He is part of a project using
social media to reach gay and bisexual men. (PHOTOGRAPH BY   TODD HEISLER/THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 5, 2013 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Résumé Shows Leaker Honed Hacking Skills

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW and SCOTT SHANE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1376 words


In 2010, while working for a National Security Agency contractor, Edward J.
Snowden learned to be a hacker.

He took a course that trains security professionals to think like hackers and
understand their techniques, all with the intent of turning out ''certified
ethical hackers'' who can better defend their employers' networks.

But the certification, listed on a résumé that Mr. Snowden later prepared, would
also have given him some of the skills he needed to rummage undetected through
N.S.A. computer systems and gather the highly classified surveillance documents
that he leaked last month, security experts say.

Mr. Snowden's résumé, which has not been made public and was described by people
who have seen it, provides a new picture of how his skills and responsibilities
expanded while he worked as an intelligence contractor. Although federal
officials offered only a vague description of him as a ''systems
administrator,'' the résumé suggests that he had transformed himself into the
kind of cybersecurity expert the N.S.A. is desperate to recruit, making his
decision to release the documents even more embarrassing to the agency.

''If he's looking inside U.S. government networks for foreign intrusions, he
might have very broad access,'' said James A. Lewis, a computer security expert
at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. ''The hacker got into the
storeroom.''

In an age when terabytes of data can be stashed inside palm-size devices, the
new details about Mr. Snowden's training and assignments underscore the
challenges that the N.S.A. faces in recruiting a new generation of free-spirited
computer experts with diverse political views.

Mr. Snowden, who is now marooned at an airport in Moscow waiting to see if
another country will grant him asylum, has said he leaked the documents to alert
the public to the sweeping nature of the American government's surveillance. He
took a job as an ''infrastructure analyst'' with Booz Allen Hamilton in April at
an N.S.A. facility in Hawaii, he has said, to gain access to lists of computers
that the agency had hacked around the world.

Mr. Snowden prepared the résumé shortly before applying for that job, while he
was working in Hawaii for the N.S.A. with Dell, the computer maker, which has
intelligence contracts. Little has been reported about his four years with Dell,
but his résumé, as described, says that he rose from supervising computer system
upgrades for the spy agency in Tokyo to working as a ''cyberstrategist'' and an
''expert in cyber counterintelligence'' at several locations in the United
States.

In what may have been his last job for Dell in Hawaii, he was responsible for
the security of ''Windows infrastructure'' in the Pacific, he wrote, according
to people who have seen his résumé. He had enough access there to start making
contacts with journalists in January and February about disclosing delicate
information. His work for Dell may also have enabled him to see that he would
have even more access at Booz Allen.

Some intelligence experts say that the types of files he improperly downloaded
at Booz Allen suggest that he had shifted to the offensive side of electronic
spying or cyberwarfare, in which the N.S.A. examines other nations' computer
systems to steal information or to prepare attacks. The N.S.A.'s director, Gen.
Keith B. Alexander, has encouraged workers to try their skills both defensively
and offensively, and moving to offense from defense is a common career pattern,
officials say.

Whatever his role, Mr. Snowden's ability to comb through the networks as a lone
wolf -- and walk out the door with the documents on thumb drives -- shows how
the agency's internal security system has fallen short, former officials say.

''If Visa can call me and say, 'Are you in Dakar, Senegal?' when they see a
purchase that doesn't fit my history, then we ought to be able to detect
something like this,'' said Michael V. Hayden, a former director of the N.S.A.
and the C.I.A. ''That continuous monitoring does not seem to have been in
place.''

But Michael Maloof, a software developer who supplied internal monitoring
systems to private companies, said that with Mr. Snowden's training in hacking,
he ''would have known to keep his probes low and slow, a little bit here, a
little bit there, so there was nothing to detect.''

If alarms went off as he grabbed documents, Mr. Maloof said, Mr. Snowden might
have been able to explain away the alerts by saying that he was merely testing
the protections as part of his security job.

Mr. Snowden grew up in Baltimore's southern suburbs, where many of his neighbors
would have been tech-savvy N.S.A. employees working at the agency's headquarters
at Fort Meade. Conventional schooling did not agree with him, and he dropped out
of high school and eventually sought technical training in a series of courses.

As early as 2003, when he was 20, he showed interest in the skills, prized by
hackers, required to operate anonymously online. ''I wouldn't want God himself
to know where I've been, you know?'' he, or someone identified as him from his
screen name and other details, wrote on a forum on the tech news site Ars
Technica.

Three years later, about the time he joined the C.I.A., he had discovered the
long list of jobs available to anyone with computer expertise who could pass a
detailed ''lifestyle'' polygraph test and get a security clearance. ''If you're
cleared, have a lifestyle, and have specialized I.T. skills, you can go anywhere
in the world right now,'' he wrote under the screen name TheTrueHOOHA.

By the next year, he was a C.I.A. technician posted in Geneva, operating under
cover as a ''diplomatic attaché,'' as his résumé calls the job. His C.I.A. job
appears to have been standard I.T. work, though in an exotic high-security
setting.

He was ''called upon repeatedly'' for TDYs, he wrote, using government jargon
for temporary duty, ''including support of U.S. president.'' That reference,
government officials say, is probably related to assistance with computer
security or other routine assignments during presidential trips to Europe.

Mr. Snowden said he got ''six months of classified technical training,'' and he
claimed to have served as ''technical adviser to 3rd countries across the
region,'' presumably meaning Europe.

Evidently still in Switzerland in early 2009, Mr. Snowden referred to the United
States' aggressive high-tech spying, but with a sarcastic edge.

''We love that technology,'' he wrote in a chat later published by Ars Technica.
''Helps us spy on our citizens better.''

By 2010, he had switched agencies and moved to Japan to work for Dell as an
N.S.A. contractor, and he led a project to modernize the backup computer
infrastructure, he said on the résumé. That year also appears to have been
pivotal in his shift toward more sophisticated cybersecurity.

He gained his certification as an ''ethical hacker'' by studying materials that
have helped tens of thousands of government and corporate security workers
around the world learn how hackers gain access to systems and cover their
tracks.

The program, operated by a company called EC-Council, has a code of honor that
requires ethical hackers to keep private any confidential information that they
obtain in checking systems for vulnerabilities. Sanjay Bavisi, the company's
president, said he knew of only one person who had lost his certification for
making information public.

For years, N.S.A. officials have visited hacker gatherings to promote the agency
and recruit workers. General Alexander, the director, gave the keynote address a
year ago at Defcon, a large hacker conference, in Las Vegas. But Mr. Snowden's
profile will now be carefully studied by intelligence officials for clues about
how to hire skilled young hackers without endangering the agency's secrets.

John R. Schindler, a former N.S.A. official who now teaches at the Naval War
College, said that the background investigation for Mr. Snowden's security
clearance was clearly flawed. ''For years, N.S.A. and now the Cyber Command have
struggled with how to relate to the hacker community,'' he added. ''It's obvious
that some sort of arrangement to allow hackers to work for N.S.A. and the
intelligence community in a systematic way is needed.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/07/05/us/resume-shows-snowden-honed-hacking-skills.h
tml

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A rally in support of Edward J. Snowden in Berlin on Thursday.
He remained marooned at an airport in Moscow. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOBIAS
SCHWARZ/REUTERS) (A3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                              July 5, 2013 Friday

Daily Report: Snowden Trained as Hacker While With N.S.A., Résumé Says

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 374 words



HIGHLIGHT: Although officials have offered only a vague description of Edward J.
Snowden as a &#8220;systems administrator,&#8221; his r&#233;sum&#233; suggests
that he transformed himself into the kind of cybersecurity expert the N.S.A. was
desperate to recruit, Christopher Drew and Scott Shane report in The New York
Times.


In 2010, while working for a National Security Agency contractor, Edward J.
Snowden learned to be a hacker, Christopher Drew and Scott Shane report in The
New York Times.

He took a course that trains security professionals to think like hackers and
understand their techniques, all with the intent of turning out "certified
ethical hackers" who can better defend their employers' networks. But the
certification, listed on a résumé that Mr. Snowden later prepared, would also
have given him some of the skills he needed to rummage undetected through N.S.A.
computer systems and gather the highly classified surveillance documents that he
leaked last month, security experts say.

Mr. Snowden's résumé, which has not been made public and was described by people
who have seen it, provides a new picture of how his skills and responsibilities
expanded while he worked as an intelligence contractor. Although federal
officials offered only a vague description of him as a "systems administrator,"
the résumé suggests that he had transformed himself into the kind of
cybersecurity expert the N.S.A. was desperate to recruit, making his decision to
release the documents even more embarrassing to the agency.

"If he's looking inside U.S. government networks for foreign intrusions, he
might have very broad access," said James A. Lewis, a computer security expert
at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. "The hacker got into the
storeroom."

Mr. Snowden prepared the résumé shortly before applying for that job, while he
was working in Hawaii for the N.S.A. with Dell, the computer maker, which has
intelligence contracts. Little has been reported about his four years with Dell,
but his résumé, as described, says that he rose from supervising computer system
upgrades for the spy agency in Tokyo to working as a "cyberstrategist" and an
"expert in cyber counterintelligence" at several locations in the United States.


     ·    Secret Court Declassifies Yahoo's Role in Disclosure Fight
     ·    Daily Report: 'The Scariest Threat Is the Systems Administrator'
     ·    The Latest to Disclose Government Requests, Yahoo Reveals the Least
     ·    Daily Report: Google, Facebook and Microsoft Ask to Reveal U.S. Data
          Requests
     ·    Daily Report: U.S. Confirms That It Gathers Online Data


LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (India Ink)

                            July 10, 2013 Wednesday

How Surveillance Works in India

BYLINE: PRANESH PRAKASH

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1501 words



HIGHLIGHT: There is a strange mix of great amounts of transparency and very
little accountability when it comes to surveillance and intelligence agencies.


When the Indian government announced it would start a Centralized Monitoring
System in 2009 to monitor telecommunications in the country, the public seemed
unconcerned. When the government announced that the system, also known as
C.M.S., commenced in April, the news didn't receive much attention. After a
colleague at the Centre for Internet and Society wrote about the program and it
was lambasted by Human Rights Watch, more reporters started covering it as a
privacy issue. But it was ultimately the revelations by Edward J. Snowden about
American surveillance that prompted Indians to ask questions about its own
government's surveillance programs.

In India, we have a strange mix of great amounts of transparency and very little
accountability when it comes to surveillance and intelligence agencies. Many
senior officials are happy to anonymously brief reporters about the state of
surveillance, but there is very little that is officially made public, and still
less is debated in the national press and in Parliament.

This lack of accountability is seen both in the way the Big-Brother acronyms
(C.M.S., Natgrid, T.C.I.S., C.C.T.N.S., etc.) have been rolled out, as well as
the murky status of the intelligence agencies. No intelligence agency in India
has been created under an act of Parliament with clearly established roles and
limitations on powers, and hence there is no public accountability whatsoever.

The absence of accountability has meant that the government has since 2006been
working on the C.M.S., which will integrate with the TelephoneCallInterception
System that is also being rolled out. The cost: around 8 billion rupees ($132
million) - more than four times the initial estimate of 1.7 billion - and even
more important, our privacy and personal liberty. Under their licensing terms,
all Internet service providers and telecom providers are required to provide the
government direct access to all communications passing through them. However,
this currently happens in a decentralized fashion, and the government in most
cases has to ask the telecoms for metadata, like call detail records, visited
Web sites, IP address assignments, or to carry out the interception and provide
the recordings to the government. Apart from this, the government uses equipment
to gain access to vast quantities of raw data traversing the Internet across
multiple cities, including the data going through the undersea cables that land
in Mumbai.

With the C.M.S., the government will get centralized access to all
communications metadata and content traversing through all telecom networks in
India. This means that the government can listen to all your calls, track a
mobile phone and its user's location, read all your text messages, personal
e-mails and chat conversations. It can also see all your Google searches, Web
site visits, usernames and passwords if your communications aren't encrypted.

You might ask: Why is this a problem when the government already had the same
access, albeit in a decentralized fashion? To answer that question, one has to
first examine the law.

There are no laws that allow for mass surveillance in India. The two laws
covering interception are the Indian Telegraph Act of 1885 and the Information
Technology Act of 2000, as amended in 2008, and they restrict lawful
interception to time-limited and targeted interception.The targeted interception
both these laws allow ordinarily requires case-by-case authorization by either
the home secretary or the secretary of the department of information technology.

Interestingly, the colonial government framed better privacy safeguards into
communications interception than did the post-independence democratic Indian
state. The Telegraph Act mandates that interception of communications can only
be done on account of a public emergency or for public safety.  If either of
those two preconditions is satisfied, then the government may cite any of the
following five reasons: "the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of
the state, friendly relations with foreign states, or public order, or for
preventing incitement to the commission of an offense." In 2008, the Information
Technology Act copied much of the interception provision of the Telegraph Act
but removed the preconditions of public emergency or public safety, and expands
the power of the government to order interception for "investigation of any
offense." The IT Act thus very substantially lowers the bar for wiretapping.

Apart from these two provisions, which apply to interception, there are many
laws that cover recorded metadata, all of which have far lower standards. Under
the Code of Criminal Procedure, no court order is required unless the entity is
seen to be a "postal or telegraph authority" - and generally e-mail providers
and social networking sites are not seen as such.

Unauthorized access to communications data is not punishable per se, which is
why a private detective who gained access to the cellphone records of Arun
Jaitley, a Bharatiya Janata Party leader, has been charged under the weak
provision on fraud, rather than invasion of privacy. While there is a provision
in the Telegraph Act to punish unlawful interception, it carries a far lesser
penalty (up to three years of imprisonment) than for a citizen's failure to
assist an agency that wishes to intercept or monitor or decrypt (up to seven
years of imprisonment).

To put the ridiculousness of the penalty in Sections 69 and 69B of the IT Act
provision in perspective, an Intelligence Bureau officer who spills national
secrets may be imprisoned up to three years.And under the Indian Penal Code,
failing to provide a document one is legally bound to provide to a public
servant, the punishment can be up to one month's imprisonment. Further, a
citizen who refuses to assist an authority in decryption, as one is required to
under Section 69, may simply be exercising her constitutional right against
self-incrimination. For these reasons and more, these provisions of the IT Act
are arguably unconstitutional.

As bad as the IT Act is, legally the government has done far worse. In the
licenses that the Department of Telecommunications grants Internet service
providers, cellular providers and telecoms, there are provisions that require
them to provide direct access to all communications data and content even
without a warrant, which is not permitted by the existing laws on interception.
The licenses also force cellular providers to have 'bulk encryption' of less
than 40 bits. (Since G.S.M. network encryption systems like A5/1, A5/2, and A5/3
have a fixed encryption bit length of 64 bits, providers in India have been
known use A5/0, that is, no encryption, thus meaning any person - not just the
government - can use off-the-air interception techniques to listen to your
calls.)

Cybercafes (but not public phone operators) are required to maintain detailed
records of clients' identity proofs, photographs and the Web sites they have
visited, for a minimum period of one year. Under the rules designed as India's
data protection law (oh, the irony!), sensitive personal data has to be shared
with government agencies, if required for "purpose of verification of identity,
or for prevention, detection, investigation including cyber incidents,
prosecution, and punishment of offenses."

Along similar lines, in the rules meant to say when an Internet intermediary may
be held liable for a user's actions, there is a provision requiring the Internet
company to "provide information or any such assistance to government agencies
legally authorized for investigative, protective, cybersecurity activity."
(Incoherent, vague and grammatically incorrect sentences are a consistent
feature of laws drafted by the Ministry of Communications and IT; one of the
telecom licenses states: "The licensee should make arrangement for monitoring
simultaneous calls by government security agencies," when clearly they meant
"for simultaneous monitoring of calls.")

In a landmark 1996 judgment, the Indian Supreme Court  held that telephone
tapping is a serious invasion of an individual's privacy and that the citizens'
right to privacy has to be protected from abuse by the authorities. Given this,
undoubtedly governments must have explicit permission from their legislatures to
engage in any kind of broadening of electronic surveillance powers. Yet, without
introducing any new laws, the government has surreptitiously granted itself
powers - powers that Parliament hasn't authorized it to exercise - by sneaking
such powers into provisions in contracts and in subordinate legislation.

Pranesh Prakash is Policy Director, The Centre for Internet and Society,
Bangalore.

Thursday: Why Indians shouldn't trust the government when it comes to privacy.


     ·    India Denies Asylum to Snowden
     ·    A Conversation With: Journalist Naveen Soorinje
     ·    Should Manmohan Singh Resign?
     ·    Young, Urban, Educated...and Choosing Not to Vote
     ·    India Considers Banning Pornography as Reported Sexual Assault Rises


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 11, 2013 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Differences On Cybertheft Complicate China Talks

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 702 words


WASHINGTON -- Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. opened annual strategic talks
with senior Chinese leaders here on Wednesday by repeating the United States'
accusation that the electronic theft of American intellectual property could
undermine the relationship between the world's two largest economies.

And to no one's surprise, the Chinese had an answer ready: that the publication
of secret documents showing the extent of American surveillance of Chinese
universities and other institutions undercuts the Obama administration's case.

That friction, American officials conceded in private, underscores how difficult
it will be for the United States to make progress on what President Obama and
his top aides have said is now a central issue between two countries whose
economies are intertwined and whose militaries are in competition.

And at a time when the Chinese economy is showing signs that it is headed into a
period of slower growth, the administration's hopes of persuading Chinese
leaders to crack down on the daily barrage of theft and espionage over the
Internet -- considered crucial to keep China competitive -- is likely to be even
more difficult.

''We both will benefit from an open, secure, reliable Internet,'' Mr. Biden said
at the opening of the talks, the Strategic and Economic Dialogue, an annual
effort to bring together top Chinese and American cabinet and subcabinet
officials on a range of problems. ''Outright cyber-enabling theft that U.S.
companies are experiencing now must be viewed as out of bounds and needs to
stop.''

Mr. Biden was making the same point that Mr. Obama repeated in recent weeks,
including during a meeting with China's new president, Xi Jingping, in
California. To the Americans, China's cybertheft -- often directed by units of
the People's Liberation Army -- is different, and far more corrosive, than
standard government espionage.

An American official who was sent out to brief reporters after the first day of
talks said that when it came to the theft of intellectual property -- including
the designs of commercial products and military aircraft -- ''we don't do it,
and we don't think any country should do it.''

China has always viewed the issue differently, seeing far less of a distinction
involving what it regards as issues of economic and military security.

''For many Chinese, it is bizarre that how Washington can continue to pose as
the biggest cyberespionage victim and demand others behave well,'' China Daily,
a government-influenced publication, wrote before the meeting, ''after former
U.S. intelligence contractor Edward Snowden revealed that U.S. spy agencies
hacked deep into China and other countries' computer networks, including those
of government, military, research, educational and business organizations.''

It concluded that ''by dividing cyberespionage into 'bad' and 'good' activities,
Washington is trying to dictate the rules for global cyberdomain, which is a
public space.''

American and Chinese cyberexperts met Monday for the first time in a working
group intended to address the issue. That alone was progress: when the United
States asked Chinese officials to discuss cybertheft, cyberespionage and
cybersecurity at a meeting several years ago, there was almost no give and take.
But new attention focused on the activities of the Chinese military, notably
Unit 61398 of the People's Liberation Army, has made it harder for Mr. Xi's
government to ignore the United States' protests.

Mr. Snowden's revelations may be a gift to the Chinese, because they shift the
focus from China's covert activities to Washington's. And even American scholars
say the Chinese have a good argument. ''It is not true that 'unwritten rules'
prohibit economic espionage,'' said Jack Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor and
cyberexpert who served in the Bush administration. ''Economic espionage is
expressly prohibited by U.S. domestic law but is not prohibited by international
law, written or unwritten, and it is widely practiced.''

The most fruitful part of the conversations, American officials indicated in a
briefing late on Wednesday, dealt with North Korea and climate change, two areas
where the governments have been moving into alignment.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/07/11/world/asia/differences-on-cybertheft-complicat
e-china-talks.html

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 11, 2013 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Europe and U.S. Spying

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 165 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Listening In on Europe'' (editorial, July 3):

I disagree that Europe's reaction to the recent revelations is ''overblown.''
While it is true that nations -- even allied nations -- will always spy on each
other, the disparity in technological capacity has reached a point where
countries such as Germany are, metaphorically speaking, bringing a knife to a
gunfight.

And while, as you point out, the operations have been legal under American law,
German law on data espionage has likely been broken, literally millions of
times. To avoid a global cyber arms race, a new body of international treaties
should be created to limit these kinds of activities.

Until then, as a symbolic gesture, European countries should stop cooperating
with the United States on data exchange programs such as bank transfer and
passenger record information.

MARK ILSEMANN Charlottesville, Va., July 3, 2013

The writer teaches German language, literature and civilization at the
University of Virginia.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/07/11/opinion/europe-and-us-spying.html

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                         (The Public Editor's Journal)

                             July 11, 2013 Thursday

How Acceptable Was Anonymous Speculation About Snowden's Laptops?

BYLINE: MARGARET SULLIVAN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 850 words



HIGHLIGHT: Once in The Times, a sentence about Edward J. Snowden&#8217;s laptops
&#8220;spread everywhere as truth.&#8221;


It's the story that just won't quit: The tale of Edward J. Snowden and his leak
of classified information about the United States government's secret
surveillance of citizens.

Rife with skirmishes and subplots, overflowing with schadenfreude,
one-upsmanship and bruised egos, it's also a matter of extraordinary national
and global importance.

One of the latest developments is the question of whether Mr. Snowden - as was
suggested in a Times article on June 24 - may have unwittingly provided
classified information to China.

The Times article, the essence of which looked at the reasons that China allowed
Mr. Snowden to leave Hong Kong, included this sentence about two-thirds of the
way down: "Two Western intelligence experts, who worked for major government spy
agencies, said that they believed that the Chinese government had managed to
drain the contents of the four laptops that Mr. Snowden said he brought to Hong
Kong, and that he said were with him during his stay at a Hong Kong hotel."

Mr. Snowden denied that his laptops were compromised by the Chinese (or the
Russians): "I never gave any information to either government and they never
took anything from my laptops," he said in an interview with Glenn Greenwald,
the columnist for The Guardian who broke much of the biggest news over the past
month as a chief recipient of Mr. Snowden's information.

In that piece, Mr. Greenwald took The Times to task for printing that
"incendiary" speculation.

"In lieu of any evidence, The New York Times circulated this obviously
significant assertion," he said, by "citing two anonymous sources saying they
'believed' this happened."

He continued: "From there, it predictably spread everywhere as truth." The New
Yorker soon repeated it, citing The Times. "It was then used to demonize
Snowden" in a wide variety of venues, Mr. Greenwald wrote. (The Huffington
Posts's Michael Calderone reported on this topic on Wednesday.)

Paul E. King, a Times reader in Fort Worth, said he was disturbed by what he
read in Mr. Greenwald's column, and he raised good questions, wanting to know
about The Times's standards on the use of anonymous sources. He also was
concerned about the way such information in The Times can be manipulated for
political purposes.  (For example, government sources have reason to want to
portray Mr. Snowden as a traitor.)

I asked The Times's foreign editor, Joseph Kahn, about how the sourcing was
handled and about Mr. Greenwald's criticism.

Mr. Kahn said that it's important to see this passage in the story for what it
is: An exploration of what might have happened, based on experts who did not
claim to have direct knowledge. He also noted that, in a front-page article last
year, The Times detailed the ways in which the Chinese government is able to
penetrate digital devices; such cyber theft is a common enough practice that
American government and business officials traveling in China take extraordinary
measures to prevent it.

The recent article, he noted, said that the sources "believed, not that they
were told." The Times provided further context and conditionality, he said, in
the next sentence: "If that were the case, they said, China would no longer need
or want to have Mr. Snowden remain in Hong Kong."

"It's a couple of steps removed from a strong assertion," he said.

Mr. Kahn was not the direct editor on the article and he said that foreign desk
editors did not press the reporters to know their sources, nor did he think they
needed to do so. That practice arises, he said, when an anonymous source is the
basis for an article's premise or a central assertion.

"I don't think any of us saw this set of beliefs as being worthy of that high
level of scrutiny," he said. Because of a concurrent discussion of another,
related article, Mr. Kahn does know who one of the two sources is and remains
confident of that person's knowledge and reliability.

In retrospect, knowing how the passage has been exaggerated and spun, would Mr.
Kahn have wanted to see it handled differently?

"It's Monday morning quarterbacking," he said, but The Times could have added a
sentence that made it clear that the sources did not have direct, specific
information of what happened with Mr. Snowden's laptops.

Mr. Greenwald's argument is worth thinking hard about. Two sentences in the
middle of a Times article on such a sensitive subject - though they may be off
the central point - have the power to sway the discussion or damage a
reputation.  What The Times writes can quickly, and sometimes harmfully, become
pundit fodder.

"The way it gets picked up is hard for us to control," Mr. Kahn said.
"Obviously, we have to think about it."

He's right. So is the reader, Mr. King, who wrote: "I read the Times for the
truth. I can read publication of speculation almost anywhere."


     ·    Readers Protest David Brooks's 'Mutts' Column, and He Responds
     ·    Hastings Obituary Did Not Capture His Adversarial Spirit
     ·    Are Blogs Outdated? The Times Eliminates Several, and Explains Why
     ·    More on the Plane That Didn't Crash, and 'Truthiness'
     ·    Following Up on the N.S.A. Revelations: Were They Really
          'Confirmations'?


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 14, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paperback Row

BYLINE: By IHSAN TAYLOR

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 531 words


ON SAUDI ARABIA: Its People, Past, Religion, Fault Lines -- and Future, by Karen
Elliott House. (Vintage, $16.95.) House, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist who
has been reporting on Saudi Arabia for more than 30 years, unveils this
inscrutable oil-rich country -- where ''Saudis endlessly maneuver through
winding paths between high walls of religious rules, government restrictions and
cultural traditions'' -- and compares its calcified regime to the Soviet Union
in its final days.

SKIOS, by Michael Frayn. (Picador, $15.) As his uproarious play ''Noises Off''
showed, Frayn is a master farceur. In the academic satire ''Skios,'' a charming
sociopath assumes the identity of a ponderous, world-renowned authority on ''the
management of science,'' who has been invited to give the keynote address at a
conference on a Greek island.

CRONKITE, by Douglas Brinkley. (Harper Perennial, $19.99.) Drawing on Walter
Cronkite's private papers as well as interviews with his family and friends,
Brinkley brings ''the most trusted man in America'' intimately to light: first
as a print reporter on the front lines of World War II, and later as the anchor
of ''The CBS Evening News.'' Our reviewer, Chris Matthews, called ''Cronkite'' a
''majestic biography.''

LAURA LAMONT'S LIFE IN PICTURES, by Emma Straub. (Riverhead, $16.) Straub's
carefully observed novel about fame, family drama and personal identity ranges
over five decades in an actress's life. In 1938, Elsa Emerson flees Middle
America for Hollywood and becomes Laura Lamont, an Oscar-winning star of the
late '30s and '40s. But behind the scenes, her celebrity comes at an emotional
price.

THE OATH: The Obama White House and the Supreme Court, by Jeffrey Toobin.
(Anchor, $16.) This lucid follow-up to ''The Nine'' (2007) examines the court's
internal dynamics under Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and its fraught
relationship with President Obama. Toobin recounts bitterly contested decisions
(campaign finance, gun rights, health care), exploring their historical contexts
and their possible social and political consequences.

CITY OF BOHANE, by Kevin Barry. (Graywolf, $15.) In Barry's first novel, set in
Ireland around 2053, the once-great city of Bohane is infested by vice and split
along tribal lines. Logan Hartnett runs the Fancy, the city's most fearsome
gang, but his old nemesis has resurfaced and has designs on the woman Hartnett
stole from him years earlier. ''This powerful, exuberant fiction is as true as
the Macondo of Gabriel García Márquez,'' Pete Hamill wrote here.

WE ARE ANONYMOUS: Inside the Hacker World of LulzSec, Anonymous, and the Global
Cyber Insurgency, by Parmy Olson. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $16.) How did a
nebulous hacker collective known as Anonymous, and its offshoot LulzSec,
penetrate corporate security systems? Were they anarchists or activists? Olson
exposes the Internet's underbelly to chronicle the groups' complicated, winding
history.

DERBY DAY, by D. J. Taylor. (Pegasus, $15.95.) Inspired in part by a William
Frith painting, Taylor's 19th-century crime caper centers on a champion
racehorse at the Epsom Derby in England, where the ambitions of a motley bunch
of stakeholders collide.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/07/14/books/review/paperback-row.html

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 19, 2013 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

N.S.A. Imposes Rules To Protect Secret Data Stored on Its Networks

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 963 words


The National Security Agency has imposed new rules designed to sharply restrict
the sharing and downloading of top-secret material from its computer networks
after an review of how Edward J. Snowden, a former agency contractor, managed to
expose several of the country's most sensitive surveillance programs, two of the
Pentagon's most senior officials said Thursday.

First among the new procedures is a ''two-man rule'' -- based on the model of
how nuclear weapons are handled -- that requires two computer systems
administrators to work simultaneously when they are inside systems that contain
highly classified material.

''This makes our job more difficult,'' Gen. Keith B. Alexander, the head of the
N.S.A. and the commander of the military's Cyber Command, told the Aspen
Security Forum, an annual meeting on security issues. He described future plans
to keep the most sensitive data in a highly encrypted form, sharply limiting the
number of system administrators -- like Mr. Snowden -- who can move data
throughout the nation's intelligence agencies and the Defense Department.

Hours before General Alexander described the new defenses, Ashton B. Carter, the
deputy secretary of defense, said the conditions that allowed Mr. Snowden to
download and remove data without detection amounted to ''a failure to defend our
own networks.''

''It was not an outsider hacking in, but an insider,'' he said.

General Alexander spoke in defense of the N.S.A.'s surveillance programs,
including its collection of a vast database of information about all phone calls
made and received in the United States. ''You need a haystack to find a
needle,'' he said, even while acknowledging that he was open to the idea that
the nation's telecommunications companies, rather than the government, should
retain control of the data.

But at the security forum, of which The New York Times is a media sponsor,
General Alexander also revealed for the first time that President Obama, shortly
after taking office, had been surprised by the number of errors the agency made,
which resulted in what General Alexander called the inadvertent collection of
information about American citizens.

''When the president first came on board, we had a huge set of mistakes that we
were working through in 2009,'' he told the audience. ''He said essentially, 'I
can see the value of these, but how do we ensure that we get these within
compliance and that everything is exactly right?' '' That suggested that Mr.
Obama had questioned the execution of a program he had inherited from President
George W. Bush, but satisfied himself by having the N.S.A. set up what the
general called a ''directorate of compliance,'' an internal watchdog group.

Both Mr. Carter and General Alexander said that the military has begun to deploy
roughly 4,000 people in the Pentagon's first units devoted to conducting
cyberoffense and -defense operations, a new mission that formalizes America's
use of a class of weapons that the Obama administration has rarely discussed in
public.

''I wanted to start this fast,'' Mr. Carter said. ''Fundamentally, we're
spending everything we can think about spending intelligently for,
notwithstanding our budget hassles, because this is an area that we are
protecting even as other military capabilities will be cut.''

The description of the Pentagon's new cyberteams, which will be under General
Alexander's command, was the most detailed yet of one of the military's most
closely held projects.

The administration recently conceded that it was developing cyberweapons. The
best-known example is the covert effort called ''Olympic Games,'' which the Bush
administration used against Iran's nuclear program. The Obama administration
accelerated the program, but suffered a major setback when a computer worm,
later named Stuxnet, escaped from the Natanz nuclear enrichment plant in Iran
and replicated itself on the Web, where the Iranians and others could download
the code that was developed by the N.S.A. and its Israeli counterpart, Unit
8200.

Future operations run by Cyber Command, Mr. Carter suggested, would be focused
on the teams. ''The teams are new, and they are in addition to the N.S.A. work
force,'' he said. While they may ultimately be modeled on Special Operations,
which provide fighting expertise to supplement traditional forces, for now the
cyberforce will be drawn from members of the armed services.

The cyberforces are inexpensive, Mr. Carter argued. But their very existence,
which General Alexander alluded to in Congressional testimony this year, is
bound to be cited by other nations that are justifying the creation of their own
cyberunits. The People's Liberation Army in China has a major effort under way;
its Unit 61398 has been accused of stealing corporate secrets and intellectual
property from American companies, as well as planning for potential attacks on
American infrastructure. Iran has created its own cybercorps, which has been
blamed for attacks on Saudi Aramco, a major oil producer, and American banks.

Mr. Carter, a physicist and former Harvard professor who has worked at the
Pentagon since the beginning of the Obama administration, blamed the leak of
highly classified data partly on decisions made after the investigations into
the intelligence failures surrounding the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

''There was an enormous amount of information concentrated in one place,'' Mr.
Carter said. But General Alexander defended the information-sharing as
necessary.

But as the differences between the two men's description suggest, the pressure
to recompartmentalize information is bound to raise questions about whether the
government is restoring a system that, ultimately, was blamed for many of the
failures to ''connect the dots'' before the 2001 attacks.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/07/19/us/military-to-deploy-units-devoted-to-
cyber-operations.html

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. Keith B. Alexander of  the Army, the director of the
National Security Agency and  the United States Cyber Command,  at the Aspen
Security  Forum on Thursday. He discussed  new cyberweapons  and defenses of
secret data. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BAYER/THE ASPEN INSTITUTE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 22, 2013 Monday
                        The International Herald Tribune

Encryption Flaw Makes Phones Possible Accomplices in Theft

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; RAW DATA; Pg.

LENGTH: 988 words


BERLIN -- If your identity has been stolen, your phone may have been an
accomplice to the crime.

A German mobile security expert says he has found a flaw in the encryption
technology used in some SIM cards, the chips in handsets, that could enable
cyber criminals to take control of a person's phone.

Karsten Nohl, founder of Security Research Labs in Berlin, said the encryption
hole allowed outsiders to obtain a SIM card's digital key, a 56-digit sequence
that opens the chip up to modification. With that key in hand, Mr. Nohl said, he
was able to send a virus to the SIM card through a text message, which let him
eavesdrop on a caller, make purchases through mobile payment systems and even
impersonate the phone's owner.

He said he had managed the whole operation in about two minutes, using a simple
personal computer. He estimates as many as 750 million phones may be vulnerable
to attacks.

''We can remotely install software on a handset that operates completely
independently from your phone,'' Mr. Nohl said. ''We can spy on you. We know
your encryption keys for calls. We can read your S.M.S.'s. More than just
spying, we can steal data from the SIM card, your mobile identity, and charge to
your account.''

Mr. Nohl is well known in security circles. In 2009, he published a software
tool that computes the 64-bit key used to encrypt conversations on GSM networks,
prompting the industry to adopt better safeguards. His company, Security
Research Labs, advises German and U.S. multinational companies on mobile
security issues.

Mr. Nohl said the flaw he had discovered was the result of an encryption method
developed in the 1970s called data encryption standard, or D.E.S. After
uncovering the breach, he researched the pervasiveness of the problem by testing
about 1,000 SIM cards on cellphones running on mobile networks in Europe and
North America over a two-year period. The phones and SIM cards were owned and
used by himself and members of his research team. Mr. Nohl said that about
one-quarter of the SIM cards running the older encryption technology exhibited
the flaw.

D.E.S. encryption is used on about half of the about six billion cellphones in
use daily. Over the past decade, most operators have adopted a stronger
encryption method, called Triple D.E.S., but many SIM cards still run the old
standard. The encryption is used to disguise the SIM card, and thus a mobile
phone's unique digital signature.

Mr. Nohl has shared the results of his two-year study with the GSM Association,
an organization based in London that represents the mobile industry, through a
process of ''responsible disclosure.'' On Aug. 1, he plans to present the full
details of his research at the Black Hat conference, a computer hackers'
gathering, in Las Vegas.

In a statement, a GSM Association spokeswoman, Claire Cranton, said Mr. Nohl had
sent the association outlines of his study, which the organization had passed
along to operators and to makers of SIM cards that still relied on the older
encryption standard.

''We have been able to consider the implications and provide guidance to those
network operators and SIM vendors that may be impacted,'' Ms. Cranton said. She
added that it was likely only a minority of phones using the older standard
''could be vulnerable.''

Ms. Cranton declined to comment on Mr. Nohl's estimate that 750 million
cellphones might be open to attack, saying the association would not comment
until it had reviewed Mr. Nohl's full research findings in Las Vegas. A large
maker of SIM cards, the Dutch company Gemalto, said the GSM Association had told
it of Mr. Nohl's preliminary findings. A second maker of SIM cards, the German
company Giesecke & Devrient, said it had ''analyzed this attack scenario.''

Gemalto has been working closely with the association and other industry groups
''to look into the first outline given by Mr. Nohl,'' Gemalto said in a
statement. The company said the GSM Association had already disseminated Mr.
Nohl's findings to group members.

Mr. Nohl was able to derive the SIM card's digital key by sending an SMS
disguised as having been sent from the mobile operator. Carriers routinely send
specially coded messages to handsets to validate customers' identities for
billing and mobile transactions.

For each message, the network and the phone verify their identities by comparing
digital signatures. The message sent by Mr. Nohl deliberately used a false
signature for the network. In three-quarters of messages sent to mobile phones
using D.E.S. encryption, the handset recognized the false signature and ended
communication.

But in a quarter of cases, the phone broke off the communication and sent an
error message back to Mr. Nohl that included its own encrypted digital
signature. The communication provided Mr. Nohl with enough information to derive
the SIM card's digital key.

Mr. Nohl said he had advised the GSM Association and chip makers to use better
filtering technology to block the kind of messages he had sent. He also advised
operators to phase out SIM cards using D.E.S. encryption in favor of newer
standards. He added that consumers using SIM cards more than three years old
should get new cards from their carriers.

Giesecke & Devrient, in a statement, said that it had begun phasing out SIM
cards using D.E.S. encryption in 2008. The German company said the unique
operating system used in its SIM cards, even those running D.E.S. encryption,
would prevent a phone from inadvertently sending the kind of ''message
authentication code'' that Mr. Nohl had used to pierce the encryption.

Mr. Nohl said he was not planning to disclose the identities of the operators
whose SIM cards had performed poorly in his study at the Black Hat conference in
August. But he said that he planned to publish a comparative list of SIM card
security by operator in December at a computer hackers' conference in Hamburg,
Germany, called the Chaos Communication Congress.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/07/22/technology/encryption-flaw-makes-phones-possib
le-accomplices-in-theft.html

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                              July 22, 2013 Monday

Today's Scuttlebot: The Secret Service Sells Fake IDs and Exes in Texts

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 287 words



HIGHLIGHT: The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the
Web for important and peculiar items. Monday&#8217;s selections feature an odd
tale of how the Secret Service established and operated a counterfeiting factory
to catch cyber criminals, and an essay about why the social media generation
never really breaks up with one another.


Here are some of the more interesting items that the tech reporters and editors
of The New York Times found on the Web recently. More Scuttlebot can be found
here.

Google Serves 25% of North American Internet Traffic
Wired.com |  A study says that 62 percent of people's Internet-connected devices
in the United States connect to Google at least once daily. - Quentin Hardy

No Room for Stringer Bell at Microsoft
Slate Magazine |  How Microsoft is like the Barksdale gang in HBO's "The Wire."
- Nick Wingfield

The Secret Service Agent Who Collared Cybercrooks by Selling Them Fake IDs
Wired: Threat Level |  Kevin Poulsen's back with a tale of how the Secret
Service got into the fake identification business to capture cyberthieves. -
Damon Darlin

Digg Founder Fights Off Raccoon to Save His Dog
Gawker.com |  Getting near an attacking raccoon is not advisable, but Kevin
Rose, Digg's founder, did to save his pooch. - Damon Darlin

All My Exes Live in Texts
Nymag.com |  Why the social media generation never really breaks up. - Jenna
Wortham

90% of iOS Apps Are Free
The Unofficial Apple Weblog |  The average cost of an iOS app is around 19
cents, according to a report from mobile analytics firm Flurry. - Jenna Wortham

Web Economy Jargon Generator
Dack.com |  At a loss for the perfect phrase to make your PowerPoint
authoritative and incomprehensible? Try this site. - Damon Darlin

Earnings Calls Take On a Whiff of Show Biz
Wall Street Journal |  There's a change going on in the typically staid,
scripted world of earnings conference calls. (Subscription required.)  - Ashwin
Seshagiri

A 'Black Box' for the N.S.A.
The Verge |  A Utah Internet service proivder describes what it's like to comply
with a FISA order. - Suzanne Spector

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 25, 2013 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Promising Sleight Of Hand, Someday

BYLINE: By DAVID POGUE.

E-mail: pogue@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STATE OF THE ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1286 words


By now, we all know what the future will be like; movies and TV shows have
described it in detail. We know about the flying cars (thank you, ''Blade
Runner''), holograms (thank you, ''Star Trek'') and robot butlers (thank you,
''Jetsons'').

So when will we really get those technologies? Probably on the 11th of ''Don't
hold your breath.''

There is, however, one exception. As of this week, you can buy your own little
piece of ''Minority Report'' and ''Iron Man'': controlling your computer by
making hand motions in the air.

The Internet has been buzzing about the much-delayed Leap Motion Controller
($80) since its first public demonstrations over a year ago. Imagine controlling
on-screen objects just by reaching into empty space, just like Tom Cruise!
Imagine gesture recognition just like Microsoft's Kinect game controller, but on
a much smaller, more precise scale! Imagine the future, plugged into a USB jack
on the Mac or Windows PC you own today!

The Leap Motion sensor is beautiful, tiny and self-contained. If Wrigley's ever
comes out with a Juicy Fruit Designer Pack, it might look like this: a sleek,
glass-and-aluminum slab (1.2 by 3 by 0.5 inches), with nonskid rubber on the
bottom. A single USB cable (both a long one and a short one come in the box)
stretches away to your computer; a light comes on when it's working.

(Please note that Leap Motion has nothing to do with Leap Pad, the children's
toy. That gadget is educational in a completely different way.)

If you have a desktop computer, you put the sensor between your screen and
keyboard. If it's a laptop, you park it on the desk just in front of the
keyboard. Soon, Leap says, you'll be able to buy a PC from H.P. or Asus that has
the sensor built right in.You download the Leap software, and presto: a somewhat
buggy tutorial instructs you to insert your hands into the space -- an invisible
two-foot cube -- that's monitored by the Leap's cameras and infrared sensors.

This device is like the Kinect in that it recognizes body parts in space. But
not only is the Leap far smaller and less expensive, it's also far more precise.
According to the company, it can detect the precise positions of all 10 of your
fingers simultaneously, with a spatial accuracy to a 100th of a millimeter --
200 times as accurate as the Kinect.

And remember, the Leap adds gesture recognition not to your TV, but to your
computer. A machine that can run millions of different programs for all
different purposes. Games, sure, but also office work. Creative work.
Communication. Entertainment. Surely this little wonder is a very big deal.

Unfortunately, it's not. The Leap's hardware may be simple, attractive and
coherent -- but its software is scattershot, inconsistent and frustrating.

The first crushing disappointment is that no software recognizes your hand
motions unless it's been specially written, or adapted, for use by the Leap.

There are 75 such apps already on the Leap's app store, Airspace; some are free,
some cost a few dollars. Not all work on both Mac and Windows.

Most are games. In the best of them, you control the action in 3-D space, just
as with the Kinect but without having to stand up. For example, Boom Ball ($5)
is the classic Breakout game, where you try to knock out bricks by bouncing a
ball against them -- but your paddle is attached to your finger in vertical
space.

In Disney's clever Sugar Rush ($2), a spin off from the ''Wreck-It Ralph''
movie, you bake yourself a racing car shaped like a wedge of cake, and then
steer it by holding both sides of an invisible steering wheel. When you play
Dropchord ($3), you hold two index fingers out in space; you're defining a line
between them that you use to slice dots and avoid X's. Cut the Rope is here, too
(free).

There are some interesting music-making programs, which makes sense, since hand
motions are generally associated with playing instruments. Air Harp ($1) is just
what it sounds like. Chordion Conductor is a sweet-sounding arpeggiator
(generates music from chords you select).

A few simple educational apps are available, like Molecules (rotate molecules on
the screen; free), Cyber Science 3D (pull apart a skull; free) and Frog
Dissection (you guessed it; $4).

There are some stunningly obvious problems with all of this. First, the motions
aren't consistent from game to game. In some apps, ''clicking the mouse''
involves jabbing toward something on the screen; in others, you have to point to
the object and remain perfectly still while a cursor ''fills up.'' As on the
Kinect, that waiting period is presumably to avoid accidental selections. But
keeping your finger absolutely motionless in space is darn hard.

In some apps, you go back to the previous screen with a quick finger-swipe to
the left. In others, you waggle your hand horizontally. There's just no rhyme or
reason. Learning the gestures in one app gives you zero applicable skills for
the next one.

The finger-tracking itself works inconsistently, too. In some apps, the computer
seems to know precisely where your fingers are; in others, you feel ignored or
misunderstood. The result is mushy frustration, like trying to play the guitar
wearing boxing gloves.

The second huge problem: Half these apps would work much better with mouse and
keyboard, or at least a touch screen. In Neko's Puddle game ($5), you conduct
dripping liquids along various surfaces by tilting them, but the arrow keys
would do just as well.

The New York Times app lets you swipe through articles, select one to read and
scroll through it with a finger-twirl. With all due honor to my
employment-bestowing overlords, how is any of that an improvement over clicking
with the mouse?

(Word of advice to potential app writers: If your app involves only
two-dimensional movements, of the sort you'd make with a mouse, then the Leap
adds nothing to it. Rethink your plan. Find something that requires 3-D control
-- that's what the Leap is good for.)

The third huge problem has to do with the app Touchless. It's the one app that
goes beyond gimmicky demoware and games, the one that comes closest to the
promise of ''Minority Report.'' It's an app that lets you operate the cursor and
scroll windows right in your operating system (OS X or Windows).

The thing is, when your finger is up in the air, how is the software supposed to
know when you've ''clicked'' something? There's no glass to tap, as on a touch
screen, and no button to click, as on a mouse.

Leap's solution: there's an arbitrary invisible wall in space over the sensor.
You can't see it, you can't feel it -- but when your finger crosses that line,
you've just clicked. Painting programs like Corel Painter Freestyle (free)
require the same technique.

As you'd guess, this method is a disaster: fussy, frustrating, imprecise. The
motion gesture you'll probably use at this point is throwing the stupid thing
out the window.

In short, the Leap Motion Controller is a solution in search of a problem. It
desperately needs a killer app, some program that couldn't exist without the
Leap's special talents: tracking the three-dimensional motions of 10 individual
fingertips with incredible precision.

Most apps don't even avail themselves of that 10-finger tracking feature. Most
detect only a single finger or hand. Of the 20 apps I tested, not even one lets
you handle and manipulate on-screen 3-D objects with your fingers -- a deck of
cards, a knob, a glob of Silly Putty. These gestures that would be unique and
interesting for a 3-D system like this.

It's very exciting that the Leap controller has attained excellent hardware
design, high precision, excellent speed and low price -- today. Unfortunately,
the software that will justify its existence still lies in the future.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/07/25/technology/personaltech/no-keyboard-and-now-no
-touch-screen-either.html

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Leap Motion Controller is a solution in search of a problem:
its hardware is simple, but it needs a killer app. (B9) DRAWING (DRAWING BY
STUART GOLDENBERG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                    (Wheels)

                             July 25, 2013 Thursday

Wheelies: The Aston Plus AMG Equals Endless Possibility Edition

BYLINE: BENJAMIN PRESTON

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 560 words



HIGHLIGHT: Daimler gets a stake in Aston Martin, two Germans make a pool out of
a BMW, and Mazda brings diesel back to the Brickyard.


In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:

AMG and Aston Martin will enter a technical partnership, Aston Martin announced
on Thursday. As part of the agreement, AMG's parent company, Daimler, will take
a 5 percent stake of nonvoting shares in the British sports car maker. Aston
Martin may benefit from Daimler's vast resources, and could change its engine
supplier from the Ford Motor Company, which owned Aston Martin until 2007, to
Mercedes-AMG.

There are plenty of people who have lined the back of a pickup truck with a tarp
and used it as an impromptu swimming pool (I have). But how many times have you
heard of someone doing the same thing with a 4-door passenger car? A couple of
enterprising Germans turned what looked to be a mid-1990s BMW 3 Series sedan
into a rolling pool, with a blue liner, wooden deck, fake hibiscus flowers and a
Hawaiian-style bamboo ladder. Der Spiegel reported that the car had only one
forward gear and held about 530 gallons of water and could travel about 15 miles
per hour.

The BMW pool car caught the notice of the police near Eibenstock, Germany, when
water sluiced out of it as it was rounding a corner. The police gave chase, but
the men in the car drove it to a parking lot and ran away, leaving it behind.
The police said they believed the men may have been intoxicated, but a man later
questioned when he returned to the car to collect his things said they were just
having a little fun. After all, what's a hot summer day without a little pool
time? (Der Spiegel)

Two cyber security consultants received more than $80,000 from the Defense
Advanced Research Projects Agency last year to work on making vehicular computer
systems more secure. Why are they doing that? Nearly all functions a new vehicle
can perform - braking, steering, even honking the horn - are controlled by a
computer. That computer can be hacked. The two researchers told Forbes that they
plan to release the findings of their study in August, with the goal of helping
the automotive industry beef up vehicular cyber security. (Forbes)

Although the Chevrolet Impala has languished for years among the unexciting
fleet of mediocre rental car fare, Consumer Reports says that the redesigned
version is the best sedan the consumer guide has tested this year. Consumer
Reports liked the ride, it liked the power and it liked the huge trunk, lauding
the Impala's transformation from low-scoring rental to top choice, even
comparing the approximately $30,000 Chevy with cars like the Acura RLX and
Jaguar XF that cost $20,000 more. (Consumer Reports)

Mazda will be running the first diesel racecar to compete at the Indianapolis
Motor Speedway since the 1952 Indianapolis 500 in this weekend's Grand-Am race.
Although Cummins' diesel entry in the 1952 grid won pole position in qualifying,
it dropped out of the race because of mechanical issues. Diesel engines have
come a long way since then, and the production-based Mazda 6 diesel racer has
achieved several victories in Rolex Grand-Am series races this year. (Mazda)


     ·    Monday Motorsports: Ed Carpenter Qualifies for Indy 500 Pole Position
     ·    Cummins at the Brickyard: Diesel Racecars Are Nothing New
     ·    Monday Motorsports: Kanaan, Rosberg and Harvick Collect Big Wins
     ·    Coming Up Is Auto Racing's Biggest Weekend of the Year
     ·    Franchitti and Castroneves Pause in New York Before Indianapolis 500


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                             July 25, 2013 Thursday

Wall Street's Exposure to Hacking Laid Bare

BYLINE: NATHANIEL POPPER

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 901 words



HIGHLIGHT: Five people were accused of hacking into the servers of major
companies and Nasdaq, showing the vulnerability of some computer systems.


The indictment on Thursday of a long-running hacking ring is kindling fears that
rogue programmers are going beyond theft and developing the capacity to wreak
havoc on the broader financial system.

Five Eastern European computer programmers were charged by the United States
attorney in New Jersey with hacking into the servers of more than a dozen large
American companies and stealing 160 million credit card numbers in what the
authorities called the largest hacking and data breach case ever.

But one company had nothing to do with credit cards or bank accounts: Nasdaq.

In a separate indictment unsealed in federal court in New York, one of the men,
Aleksandr Kalinin of Russia, was charged with having gained access for two years
to the servers of the Nasdaq stock exchange.

While Mr. Kalinin never penetrated the main servers supporting Nasdaq's trading
operations - and appears to have caused limited damage at Nasdaq - the attack
raised the prospect that hackers could be getting closer to the infrastructure
that supports billions of dollars of trades each hour.

"As today's allegations make clear, cybercriminals are determined to prey not
only on individual bank accounts, but on the financial system itself," Preet
Bharara, the top federal prosecutor in Manhattan, said in announcing the case.

It is a pivotal moment, just a week after a report from the World Federation of
Exchanges and an international group of regulators warned about the
vulnerability of exchanges to cybercrime. The report said that hackers were
shifting their focus away from stealing money and toward more "destabilizing
aims."

In a survey conducted for the report, 89 percent of the world's exchanges said
that hacking posed a "systemic risk" to global financial markets. "A presumption
of safety (despite the reach and size of the threat) could open securities
markets to a cyber 'black swan' event," the report said.

At a Senate hearing on cybersecurity on Thursday, a representative of several
financial industry groups, Mark Clancy, said that "for the financial services
industry, cyberthreats are a constant reality and a potential systemic risk to
the industry."

Over the last few years, accidental technological mishaps at the trading firm
Knight Capital and the Nasdaq and BATS stock exchanges have revealed how even
isolated programming errors can quickly ripple through the markets, causing
significant losses in minutes.

The exchanges have been bolstering their defenses and their preparations for an
assault on their computer systems. On July 18, an industry group led an
exercise, referred to as Quantum Dawn 2, in which the exchanges and other
financial firms responded to a simulated attack on the nation's stock markets.

The attack on Nasdaq is far from the first time an exchange has been singled out
by hackers. In a survey conducted for the World Federation of Exchanges report,
53 percent of all exchanges said they had experienced a cyberattack during the
last year.

This year, the Prague Stock Exchange and several Czech banks were reportedly
disabled for a brief time by an attack.

The public-facing Web sites of a number of American exchanges have been hacked.
Just last week, Nasdaq said that hackers had gained access to the passwords of
people using one of its online forums. Its sites were breached in October 2010,
too. At the time, the exchange said the breach affected a single system, known
as Directors Desk, used by company board members to exchange confidential
information.

The indictments unsealed on Thursday indicate a more wide-ranging scheme that
prosecutors say gave Mr. Kalinin and his accomplices access to an unknown amount
of information on numerous Nasdaq servers.

They were able to "execute commands on those servers, including commands to
delete, change or steal data," according to the indictment in Manhattan court.

At certain points they had enough information to "perform network or systems
administrator functions" on the servers, the New Jersey indictment said. Mr.
Kalinin had access to the servers, intermittently, until October 2010, according
to the Manhattan indictment. Nasdaq discovered the breach itself and alerted the
authorities, according to a person briefed on the investigation.

A spokesman for Nasdaq said the company had no comment on the case.

Paul M. Tiao, a former senior adviser on cybersecurity at the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, said the Nasdaq breach was worrying because the servers the
defendants attacked could have eventually provided an entryway to the more
closely guarded trading systems.

"This is the beginning of the process through which you can imagine that some
bad actors would find their way into much more sensitive infrastructure," said
Mr. Tiao, now a partner at the law firm Hunton & Williams. "This is a
significant cause for concern."

The indictment from the United States attorney in New Jersey, which included
information on the Nasdaq breach, said that Mr. Kalinin, who went by the
nicknames Grig and Tempo, first cracked Nasdaq's systems in late 2007 using
so-called SQL injections. This technique infects a computer system with
malicious software that in turn allows the attackers to steal or manipulate the
contents of the system.

When an accomplice in Florida asked about attacking Nasdaq, Mr. Kalinin wrote on
instant message: "NASDAQ is owned."


     ·    U.S. Says Ring Stole 160 Million Credit Card Numbers
     ·    M.&A. Tables Don't Give Full Score


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2013 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wall Street's Exposure To Hacking Laid Bare

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 904 words


The indictment on Thursday of a long-running hacking ring is kindling fears that
rogue programmers are going beyond theft and developing the capacity to wreak
havoc on the broader financial system.

Five Eastern European computer programmers were charged by the United States
attorney in New Jersey with hacking into the servers of more than a dozen large
American companies and stealing 160 million credit card numbers in what the
authorities called the largest hacking and data breach case ever.

But one company had nothing to do with credit cards or bank accounts: Nasdaq.

In a separate indictment unsealed in federal court in New York, one of the men,
Aleksandr Kalinin of Russia, was charged with having gained access for two years
to the servers of the Nasdaq stock exchange.

While Mr. Kalinin never penetrated the main servers supporting Nasdaq's trading
operations -- and appears to have caused limited damage at Nasdaq -- the attack
raised the prospect that hackers could be getting closer to the infrastructure
that supports billions of dollars of trades each hour.

''As today's allegations make clear, cybercriminals are determined to prey not
only on individual bank accounts, but on the financial system itself,'' Preet
Bharara, the top federal prosecutor in Manhattan, said in announcing the case.

It is a pivotal moment, just a week after a report from the World Federation of
Exchanges and an international group of regulators warned about the
vulnerability of exchanges to cybercrime. The report said that hackers were
shifting their focus away from stealing money and toward more ''destabilizing
aims.''

In a survey conducted for the report, 89 percent of the world's exchanges said
that hacking posed a ''systemic risk'' to global financial markets. ''A
presumption of safety (despite the reach and size of the threat) could open
securities markets to a cyber 'black swan' event,'' the report said.

At a Senate hearing on cybersecurity on Thursday, a representative of several
financial industry groups, Mark Clancy, said that ''for the financial services
industry, cyberthreats are a constant reality and a potential systemic risk to
the industry.''

Over the last few years, accidental technological mishaps at the trading firm
Knight Capital and the Nasdaq and BATS stock exchanges have revealed how even
isolated programming errors can quickly ripple through the markets, causing
significant losses in minutes.

The exchanges have been bolstering their defenses and their preparations for an
assault on their computer systems. On July 18, an industry group led an
exercise, referred to as Quantum Dawn 2, in which the exchanges and other
financial firms responded to a simulated attack on the nation's stock markets.

The attack on Nasdaq is far from the first time an exchange has been singled out
by hackers. In a survey conducted for the World Federation of Exchanges report,
53 percent of all exchanges said they had experienced a cyberattack during the
last year.

This year, the Prague Stock Exchange and several Czech banks were reportedly
disabled for a brief time by an attack.

The public-facing Web sites of a number of American exchanges have been hacked.
Just last week, Nasdaq said that hackers had gained access to the passwords of
people using one of its online forums. Its sites were breached in October 2010,
too. At the time, the exchange said the breach affected a single system, known
as Directors Desk, used by company board members to exchange confidential
information.

The indictments unsealed on Thursday indicate a more wide-ranging scheme that
prosecutors say gave Mr. Kalinin and his accomplices access to an unknown amount
of information on numerous Nasdaq servers.

They were able to ''execute commands on those servers, including commands to
delete, change or steal data,'' according to the indictment in Manhattan court.

At certain points they had enough information to ''perform network or systems
administrator functions'' on the servers, the New Jersey indictment said. Mr.
Kalinin had access to the servers, intermittently, until October 2010, according
to the Manhattan indictment. Nasdaq discovered the breach itself and alerted the
authorities, according to a person briefed on the investigation.

A spokesman for Nasdaq said the company had no comment on the case.

Paul M. Tiao, a former senior adviser on cybersecurity at the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, said the Nasdaq breach was worrying because the servers the
defendants attacked could have eventually provided an entryway to the more
closely guarded trading systems.

''This is the beginning of the process through which you can imagine that some
bad actors would find their way into much more sensitive infrastructure,'' said
Mr. Tiao, now a partner at the law firm Hunton & Williams. ''This is a
significant cause for concern.''

The indictment from the United States attorney in New Jersey, which included
information on the Nasdaq breach, said that Mr. Kalinin, who went by the
nicknames Grig and Tempo, first cracked Nasdaq's systems in late 2007 using
so-called SQL injections. This technique infects a computer system with
malicious software that in turn allows the attackers to steal or manipulate the
contents of the system.

When an accomplice in Florida asked about attacking Nasdaq, Mr. Kalinin wrote on
instant message: ''NASDAQ is owned.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2013/07/25/wall-streets-exposure-to-hacking-laid-bar
e/

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 28, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Time to Hard-Delete Carlos Danger

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 822 words


WASHINGTON -- WHEN you puzzle over why the elegant Huma Abedin is propping up
the eel-like Anthony Weiner, you must remember one thing: Huma was raised in
Saudi Arabia, where women are treated worse by men than anywhere else on the
planet.

Comparatively speaking, the pol from Queens probably seems like a prince. Even
though he's a punk. After he got caught sexting and flashing women online in
2011, he promised to ''never, ever'' do that to his family again and slouched
away from Congress. He cyber-creeped other young women in a pervy bout of tweet
du seigneur as his wife traveled the world with Hillary Clinton while she was
secretary of state.

Yet, while married to the classy, gorgeous mother of his infant son and planning
a redemptive run for mayor, he told a Facebook friend and phone-sex partner he
had never met that he loved her. Then he told her to ''hard-delete'' all their
correspondence -- if that is what you call it.

Aside from his zany Zorro-like nom de porn, Carlos Danger, Weiner has been
called many things. His digital girlfriend and fellow extreme exhibitionist,
Sydney Leathers (whose name sounds like a nom de porn), said that Weiner
described himself to her accurately as ''an argumentative, perpetually horny
middle-aged man.''

But Weiner's Goya-esque grotesquerie earns him another name: the ''Rosemary's
Baby'' of the Clintons.

Bill and Hillary Clinton transformed the way we look at sex scandals. They
plowed through the ridicule, refused to slink away in shame like Gary Hart, said
it was old news, and argued that if Hillary didn't object, why should voters?

Poppy Bush thought Americans would reject Bill Clinton in 1992 because of his
lascivious ways, but he learned that voters are more concerned with how their
own lives will be changed than they are with politicians' duplicitous private
lives.

Americans keep moving the marker of acceptable behavior, partly as a reflection
of the coarsening of society and partly as a public acknowledgment that many
pols with complicated personal lives have been good public servants.

Now, defining deviancy downward, Señor and Señora Danger are using the Clinton
playbook.

The difference is, there's nothing in Weiner's public life that is redeeming. In
12 years in Congress, he managed to get only one minor bill passed, on behalf of
a donor, and he doesn't work well with people. He knows how to be loud on cable
and wave his Zorro sword in our faces.

Some sex scandals, like Mark Sanford's, fall into the realm of flawed human
nature, and some, like Weiner's, fall into the realm of ''Seriously, what is
wrong with you?''

Huma gained renown, movie star suitors and a Vogue spread as the stylish Muslim
Garbo silently and efficiently parting the waves for Hillary. She had to be
resilient to work her way up from intern to consigliere in tough Hillaryworld,
and she saw firsthand how the Clintons beat back foes.

They love Huma, but the Clintons, now showcasing philanthropy and public service
preparatory to Hillary's 2016 run, are not happy about getting dragged into the
lewd spectacle that is a low-budget movie version of their masterpiece.

The former president is distancing himself, one associate said, noting, ''He's
not getting anywhere near that grenade.''

Huma's friends are ''slapping-my-forehead astounded,'' as one put it, that
Weiner would get in the race knowing the online land mines that would rock
Huma's world again and torpedo the campaign.

Weiner wooed Huma assiduously, showing up at the Westchester airport in the wee
hours to pick her up when she came back from trips with Hillary. ''They were two
hyperdrive young brains that just clicked,'' said a friend. ''She liked his
Borscht Belt humor.''

Her circle understands that ''you love who you love,'' as one put it, marveling
at Weiner's ''madonna-whore'' complex played out online. But that doesn't mean
that you ask people to vote for someone who's dreadfully flawed for a major
office, just because you love him.

They are worried that Huma's decision to vouch for her husband is starting to
hurt her, the one person they all assumed would never be ensnared in anything
weird or bad. ''The hard stink of this one is going to get on everyone
involved,'' said one friend.

Another agreed: ''As soon as she stood up to say those words she changed herself
from a sophisticated, mysterious guiding intelligence and beauty next to Hillary
Clinton to the wife of a tarnished Anthony Weiner.''

They fear Huma learned the wrong lesson from Hillary, given that Bill was a
roguish genius while Weiner's a creepy loser.

''Bill Clinton was the greatest political and policy mind of a generation,''
said one. ''Anthony is behaving similarly without the chops or résumé.''

As often as Bill apologized, he didn't promise he would ''never, ever'' do it
again, as Weiner did.

''What people won't forgive is lying in the apology,'' said the Clinton pal.
''It has to be sincere, and it sure as hell has to be accurate.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/07/28/opinion/sunday/dowd-time-to-hard-delete-carlos
-danger.html

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Associates of Huma Abedin worry that standing up for her
husband, Anthony Weiner, is starting to hurt her. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN
MOORE/GETTY IMAGES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Bill Keller)

                             July 30, 2013 Tuesday

Manning and Snowden

BYLINE: BILL KELLER

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 733 words



HIGHLIGHT: What the Bradley Manning verdict could mean for Edward Snowden.


In the cases of mega-leakers Bradley Manning and Edward Snowden, the United
States has sent a crude but clear message: if you're thinking of violating your
obligation to keep secrets, think again, because we will track you down and
smack you down. You may be sainted whistleblowers in the eyes of some, but you
are traitors in the eyes of your government.

In the Manning case, the gratuitous and implausible charge of aiding the enemy -
thankfully rejected Tuesday by the presiding judge, Colonel Denise Lind - was
particularly chilling. Manning's motives in leaking a treasury of secrets to
WikiLeaks seemed to be a mix of politics and personal discontent, but there was
no evidence he intended or even imagined that his disclosures would help
America's enemies. And if we're going to start punishing revelations that
inadvertently give comfort to the enemy, what's next? If you follow that logic,
every poll that says Americans want to get out of Afghanistan, every news story
about popular discontent over drone strikes or surveillance - in short, every
publication that casts the country in an unfavorable light - boosts morale at Al
Qaeda headquarters, and thus aids the enemy. That's why news organizations
watched that charge with particular foreboding.

Even acquitted of aiding the enemy, Manning was convicted of crimes that could
add up to, by one reckoning, 100 years of prison time. The prosecutorial excess
- combined with the grotesque treatment of the soldier after his arrest, when he
was held for nine months in solitary confinement and forced to sleep without
clothes or bedding - probably swelled the ranks of those who regard Manning as a
victim, if not a martyr. It also, in keeping with the rest of this
administration's heavy-handed war on leakers, tilts the balance in the tense
coexistence between the government and the investigative press, between secrecy
and accountability.

And it signals pretty clearly that if the U.S. ever gets its hands on Snowden -
still encamped in the transit lounge of Sheremetyevo Airport in Moscow - he can
expect no mercy. In his case, that would be not just another example of
prosecutorial overkill, but just possibly a missed opportunity.

Whatever you think of Snowden, his revelations of wholesale secret surveillance
of phone and email meta-data have awakened a healthy new suspicion of the
surveillance state and have highlighted a disturbing lack of oversight.

I'm not suggesting we give him a medal. But what about a plea bargain?

Suppose that instead of declaring its determination to pursue him to the ends of
the earth and lock him up for life, the Justice Department offered him a deal:
come home, serve some time for violating your sworn obligations, and in exchange
for a lighter sentence give us your full cooperation. Help us figure out how to
better keep our legitimate secrets. Help us build better safeguards against
abuses of privacy. Help us redraw the boundaries between government security
agencies and the for-profit contractors to whom we have ceded too much. Snowden
may be naïve in his choice of asylum destinations, but he seems to know his way
around the clandestine cyber-world.

There are precedents for this, in both of the worlds that Snowden straddles -
hacking and national security. The government has on occasion offered leniency
to hackers in exchange for their help assessing the vulnerabilities of important
computer systems.  Likewise, the government has bargained with convicted spies
in order to learn just what secrets they had divulged and for information about
enemy operatives and tradecraft.

I called Mark Rasch, a former Justice Department prosecutor who did such deals
with both spies and hackers, including the famous case of Robert Morris, the
hacker convicted in 1990 of planting a computer worm, and now a professor at
MIT. Rasch was intrigued by the idea, but skeptical that Snowden has much to
bargain with.

"The problems that he's aware of, the NSA is already aware of," Rasch said. "We
need a better mechanism for reporting concerns with classified programs, a way
to get information outside of the chain of command, to genuine policy-makers. We
don't need Manning or Snowden to tell us that."

"He'd be in a much better position negotiating-wise if he was actually a spy,"
Rasch said.

Maybe so. But we'll never find out if the first and only reflex is to squash the
leaker.


     ·    Disillusioned Nation


LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 31, 2013 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quit Is The Way To Roll

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 876 words


The cruelly misunderstood Anthony Weiner has ''no idea'' if he's about to be
stabbed by another stiletto heel.

''These are people who I thought were friends, people I trusted when I
communicated with them,'' he told Denis Hamill of The Daily News. ''But who
knows what they might do now?''

Yes, who knows? Free-spirited young women having digital sex with a well-known
politician who loves to expose himself and talk raunchy can be so damnably
unpredictable and untrustworthy.

The delusional Weiner, who has turned shamelessness into performance art, was
expecting the sexual equivalent of honor among thieves. He wasn't counting on
being out campaigning Tuesday morning while one of his online inamoratas, Sydney
Leathers, was holding forth to Howard Stern about their fantasies of ''a secret
sex den,'' her possible future in porn and Weiner's satyriasis.

''There were times he'd talk to me multiple times a day,'' she said. ''He's like
a needy girlfriend or something. He's like this clingy person.''

Aside from being a gift to clowns, hacks, punsters, rivals and the writers of
''The Good Wife,'' Carlos Danger is also a gift to political-scandal survivors.
His behavior is so outlandish and contemptible -- the sort of thing that used to
require a trench coat and park -- that it allows Eliot Spitzer and Bill Clinton
to act huffy.

When Chris Matthews asked Spitzer to verify that he would not vote for Weiner,
the ''governor-turned-hooker-booker,'' as The New York Post poetically calls
him, replied: ''Fair point. That is correct.''

Bill Clinton, who officiated at Huma and Anthony's 2010 wedding, is shooting
death rays at his political Chucky. And Hillary is dining in Washington with the
president and the vice president, trying to remind everyone of her dignified
career after conjugal martyrdom -- the same conjugal martyrdom her protégée, who
was in Washington helping Hillary with her high-level meetings, is now enduring.

After years of literally following in Hillary's footsteps, little did Huma know
how fully she would follow in Hillary's footsteps.

Weiner continues to play the rebel without a pause. He shrugged off reports that
the Clintons, who have been christened the careless Daisy and Tom Buchanan of
politics, regard him, in the words of F. Scott, as the foul dust floating in the
wake of their dreams.

''I am not terribly interested in what people who are not voters in the city of
New York have to say,'' Weiner sniffed about the first couple of Westchester.

Bill confessed, ''I hadn't been perfect'' after the Gennifer Flowers story
broke, so Weiner echoed: ''I recognize I am not a perfect messenger. I get
that.''

Just as Bill sparked a tawdry debate on whether oral sex counted as intercourse,
so Weiner has sparked a tawdry debate on whether cyber-sex is more or less
forgivable than illicit sex the old-fashioned way.

As voters grapple with whether to send Client No. 9 to spar with reporters in
City Hall's Room 9 as a comptroller without self-comptrol, as Stephen Colbert
put it, the spectacle of Spitzer passing moral judgment on Weiner has led to
arguments over gradations of perversity.

Some people say Spitzer's transgressions are more understandable because they
were time-immemorial victimless transactions with well-paid humans in the flesh,
while Weiner's digital compulsions with women he didn't know were peephole
exhibitionism and insanely ''reckless,'' as the new front-runner Christine Quinn
charged.

Others think Weiner's sins were no worse than enjoying pornography and that
actual human contact is more harmful than cyber-horniness run amok. On one
level, what Mark Sanford did -- fall in love with a beautiful, younger woman --
may be the easiest for voters to fathom, but is it the hardest on the wife?

Like Bill Clinton, Weiner can summon impressive political stamina under
jaw-droppingly embarrassing circumstances.

Ignoring the new Quinnipiac poll of New Yorkers that says a majority of likely
Democratic voters think he should get out, Weiner put up a video Tuesday night
vowing that he would not drop out because newspaper editors and other pols
wanted him to. ''Quit isn't the way we roll in New York City,'' he said, with
dark circles under his eyes that even makeup wouldn't hide, adding generously,
''This is about helping New Yorkers.''

He acknowledged that ''if someone wants to come out with something embarrassing
about you in your private life, you've got to talk about that for a little
while.''

Good luck with that.

At an event Tuesday evening in Times Square with advocates for New Yorkers with
disabilities, the 48-year-old seemed tired, slight and young as he was thronged
by the fierce Hydra-headed press beast. He looked as if he were running on raw
will.

He apologized for being late, saying something about the ''time-space
continuum.''

Weiner tried to focus on the issues at hand, like wheelchair-accessible cabs.
The auditorium was mostly empty, except for reporters following Weiner to see if
he was going to drop out or admit that he had sexted recently.

One man stood up and complained that he had been let down once when Weiner was a
Queens congressman and backed away from a bill he had promised to pass.

''How can I trust you?'' the man asked.

The question of the hour lingered in the febrile air.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/07/31/opinion/dowd-quit-is-the-way-to-roll.html

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 4, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mind Your Manners, Or Else

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1350 words


EAST HAMPTON, N.Y. -- The young professionals were promising ''All Cash'' up
front for a fast rental in the Hamptons. So the agency they contacted in April
scrambled to get them into as many of the properties as it could.

Shortly after a whirlwind tour, the real estate firm -- founded and run by local
residents -- received some enraging news: The would-be renters (one a Wall
Street lawyer, the other a hedge fund portfolio manager) had left behind
handwritten notes for the owner of one of the properties proposing a deal that
cut the firm out of the transaction.

In years past, a hometown agent in a similar position would have been left to
stew in silence. But we are well into the Internet era of public sharing.

The firm, Rosehip Partners, received the notes from the client and posted them
on its casually updated blog, Hamptons Marketwire. The result was a high-tech
shaming that was picked up by the local real estate site Curbed Hamptons,
Hamptons.com, Business Insider and various other sites around the country. ''It
was so egregious, you couldn't just sit down and do nothing, you know?'' said
one of the firm's founders, Joseph Kazickas, who decided to post it only after
careful deliberations with a fellow founder, James Young.

And so the summer of cyber-social policing began, threatening to make the act of
being rich and misbehaving in the Hamptons -- and, even, not so rich and
misbehaving -- potentially more treacherous than ever before.

It used to take plowing your S.U.V. into a crowd outside a nightclub after
allegedly calling a bouncer ''white trash'' to earn a wealthy rogue searing
media attention in these parts (Google ref.: Grubman, Lizzie; Conscience Point
Inn, 2001). Now it can happen for an unpaid landscaping bill, an obnoxious
parking job or poor tipping.

If TheRudeHamptons.com is not on the case, Curbed Hamptons may be. If it is not,
a Twitter character who identifies himself as a local farmer/jack-of-all-trades
called Joe Schwenk and uses the handle @HamptonsBorn may be there to call out
the ''citiots,'' ''212s'' and ''Hedgies'' whom he chronicles daily (though in a
gentler manner, as many of his subjects are portrayed as his own clients,
struggling in the less-urban environment).

And then there is the splashiest and most active entrant, a Facebook page that
showcases pictures and reports of unacceptable behavior. The second word in its
title is ''Spotter''; the first is unfit for polite society when used in such
derogatory fashion. In fact, that word is being thrown around so much here in
relation to supposedly jerky people that it may well be the word of the summer.
Curbed Hamptons went so far as to congratulate its readers last week for
managing to avoid it ''for once'' in their online comments.

That was only one sign of a budding snark backlash. But it all takes place
against a backdrop of a happily cranky marriage between decades-old local
resentment over the perceived boorishness of some of the more-entitled summer
visitors and the cultural shift toward comfortably sharing one's everyday gripes
online.

''I just think we're all finally saying what we've always wanted to say, and the
Internet makes it a little easier to say it,'' said Ty Wenzel, an East
Hampton-based writer and Web and graphic designer.

Ms. Wenzel got into the act this summer, writing on her Go Hamptons blog on East
Hampton Patch about an exchange in which a visitor from the city asserted that
without people like him spending money here, ''we'd be Patchogue'' -- a less
picturesque town some 50 miles west.

''First of all, there's nothing wrong with Patchogue; Patchogue's really nice,''
she said. ''What he's implying is that, 'Without us you'd be some farming-nobody
place where it's farms and vegetable stands' and, really, that's where we live
and we love that.''

The image of the misbehaving, wealthy summer visitor is as old as the advent of
the modern, international beach resort. And there are few wealthier beach
resorts in the world than this one.

Its pristine dunes and fields of corn and grapevines provided a beautiful
setting for incidents like the Brooklyn Nets coach Jason Kidd's drunken driving
arrest last summer and the model Nick Gruber's fistfight at SL East two weeks
ago, tantalizing summer fodder for the Page Sixes of the world.

''The Hamptons are, first and foremost, the locus of all this stuff: It's where
the powerful, the glamorous, the rich and the exalted go to summer,'' said Neal
Gabler, the Amagansett-based author. ''Because it's their playground, the place
where they can let themselves loose, it's the place where you are likely to see
them do things that they wouldn't do in their own environment.''

Mr. Gabler, who wrote the seminal biography of the gossip columnist Walter
Winchell (''Winchell: Gossip, Power and the Culture of the Celebrity''), views
the sites devoted to reporting on suspected misdeeds as practicing a form of
homegrown gossip columnizing, the whole basis for which, he said, ''is
essentially to equalize and take down the mighty to make sure they know they're
not better than we are.''

That is partly why James Cuomo, of the East Hampton hamlet of Springs, said he
started the ''Spotter'' Facebook page last summer. ''I've been so sick of
getting walked on out here,'' said Mr. Cuomo, 26, who works in construction by
day and insists it is not about class warfare but about general misbehavior.
''These people think they're above everybody when it comes to everything.''

Receiving a boost earlier this summer when The New York Post took notice, much
of the site focuses on obnoxious parking (a Range Rover or a Hummer taking up
two spaces in a crowded lot) or drunken conduct like that of a young man who was
photographed asleep while sitting with his pants down on a toilet in the women's
room.

Some of Mr. Cuomo's page has focused on personal appearance and fashion choices,
prompting online debates about whether it sometimes veers toward the homophobic,
fattist or gratuitous. The site promises that its administrators will ''do our
best to block any members who post derogatory terms in relationship to race,
gender, sexuality or politics,'' and Mr. Cuomo said he was working on a separate
non-Facebook version that will give him more control over such comments and, he
hopes, give him a platform from which to expand it to other vacation
destinations.

Still, it has all gotten to be a bit much for fellow Hamptons etiquette
watchdogs.

Rob Deichert Jr., the founder of TheRudeHamptons.com, said that he prefers a
less searingly personal approach. Mr. Deichert, a 38-year-old advertising
executive, was something of a pioneer. He started his site several years ago
after a particularly annoying experience at Bamboo restaurant, which has since
closed, where he and his wife were regularly ''hit in the head with handbags''
from pushy fellow diners waiting for tables and standing over them as they ate.

He started it because ''some of the stories here are just crazy -- people
fighting over a spot in line for bagels or parking places in the shopping
center.'' (His latest post is about wealthy people spurring bids from local
contractors, then asking to borrow their tools to be used by the lower-paid day
laborers they hire instead.)

Mr. Deichert was speaking at the wood-shingled offices of East Hampton's Ladies'
Village Improvement Society. The Society was formed in 1895 to beautify the
village as the newly built Long Island Rail Road station drew growing numbers of
visitors and residents. His mother-in-law, Janet Dayton, is the president. The
Dayton family's roots to East Hampton track back for 13 generations.

Sitting in on the interview, Mrs. Dayton, 68, said she found the whole debate
disheartening. ''It's a shame that East Hampton -- the East End -- has gotten
the reputation that it has now,'' she said. ''We have a beautiful place here,
and we want to keep it that way, not necessarily for ourselves, but to share.
Let's all share it gently and nicely.''

Will the collection of sites serve as a corrective to the more egregious
behavior? Mr. Deichert was asked. ''Good luck with that one,'' he said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/08/04/fashion/in-the-hamptons-mind-your-manners-or-e
lse.html

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rob Deichert Jr. is the founder of TheRudeHamptons.com, a Web
site that encourages readers to share their encounters with boorish behavior.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST8)
 Facebook groups have made it  easy to post pictures of  egregious behavior,
especially  involving cars and beaches. (ST9) DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDREW RAE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 4, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Girls Not Allowed

BYLINE: By PHILIP GALANES

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; SOCIAL Q'S; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 845 words


I am a young lawyer (and a man). I work with a more-senior female lawyer, who
refers to the secretaries in our office as ''girls.'' She'll say, ''Please give
these papers to the girl outside,'' or ''The girl at reception has a package for
you.'' But these are mostly middle-aged women, and usually older than my lawyer
colleague. Still, the women she's talking about don't seem to mind. Isn't this
behavior sexist? Should I say something?

WILL, LOS ANGELES

Danger, Will (Robinson)! Something is definitely wrong here, but it's more
complicated than mere sexism. We've all heard folks say: ''I'm having lunch with
the girls'' or ''Boys' night out!'' And we don't give it a second thought. Why
would we? The speakers are including themselves among the ''children'' in
question.

But the special sauce that makes your situation so wrong is the difference in
power between the parties. A lawyer sits on a higher rung of the corporate
ladder than a secretary. And by calling middle-aged women ''girls,'' your lawyer
colleague demeans them, even though she is a woman, too. We never refer to the
boss as the ''boy (or girl) in the corner office,'' after all. (We may use other
epithets, but never that one.)

Your colleague probably doesn't mean (or think she's doing) any harm. She's
simply repeating language she's heard her boss (and her boss's boss) use before
her. This may also be why the secretaries don't object (outwardly, anyway) and
makes speaking up even more of a minefield.

Practice your best look of doe-eyed innocence, and mosey into your colleague's
office and say: ''Does it seem weird to you that we call middle-aged secretaries
'girls'? Doesn't that belittle them?'' By not pointing any fingers, you may open
up some eyes.

Not Suitable for Work

I am a college student and an aspiring fashion designer. Recently, I started a
fashion blog to draw attention to my work and share ideas about what people are
wearing. My problem: The first (and sometimes only) people to comment on my blog
posts are my father and mother. ''We're so proud of you, honey!'' ''Good job,
Susie-Q!'' They make me feel like an 8-year-old. I told them nicely that I would
prefer they not comment on my posts, which only hurt their feelings. Was I
wrong?

SUSAN, NEW YORK CITY

Ah, what puts a spring in my step like falling on the youthful side of a
generation gap? I feel your pain, Susie-Q. But your parents are only trying to
be supportive. (In their hearts, they would probably like nothing more than for
you to drop out of fashion school and take a job at Goldman Sachs, so you could
pay your own rent and therapy bills.) Go easy on them.

What they don't understand is that your blog is a newfangled extension of the
workplace. It's your cyber-office and shouldn't feel like a preschool T-ball
game. ''Go, Susie!'' So, explain it to them. They would never bust into your
boss's office to complain about a middling performance review. Say: ''I'd love
to hear your feedback over dinner or e-mail. But I want my blog to be
professional, and that means no parental cheerleading.'' They'll knock it off.
They grow up so fast, if we let them.

Tough Position

I have been a model for a life-drawing class for a year. I am always early, and
a good sport about difficult poses, and I'm told I do my job well. Recently, I
had a medical emergency and had to cancel. I called the instructor right away,
but I didn't feel comfortable sharing my problem, so I didn't give an excuse.
Now he gives me the cold shoulder when he sees me and hasn't hired me since.
What should I do?

ANONYMOUS

When we make commitments to people (of the ''Mona Lisa'' variety or otherwise),
they need to know we take them seriously. (It frees them to worry about other
nonsense.) You are clearly a responsible model. But when you canceled without an
excuse, you probably gave the instructor the opposite impression.

No need to share uncomfortable details, but giving no reason can make folks
think we have none. Call the instructor and say: ''I wanted to let you know I
had a medical problem the other day. I would never leave you in the lurch
intentionally.'' You'll be back in front of that class, twisted up like a
pretzel, in no time.

Roll Rage

Every week, I take my girlfriend to her favorite restaurant, where a waiter
offers us a choice of white or whole-grain rolls. I pick white. And every week,
my girlfriend tells me that whole grain is better for me. If she does it again,
I will explode. What should I do?

PAUL

Three choices: Listen to your girlfriend. (She's right.) Or tell her sweetly:
''I heard you the first (200) time(s).'' Or my personal fantasy: Bring your iPod
to the restaurant, all cued up to Icona Pop's song of the summer. When she
critiques your choice of bread, just press ''play'' and wait for that infectious
chorus: ''I don't care! I love it!'' The toe-tapping alone should speed you
right past your annoyance.

For help with your awkward situation, send a question to SocialQ@nytimes.com or
SocialQ on Facebook. You can also address your queries on Twitter to
@SocialQPhilip. Please include a daytime phone number.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/08/04/fashion/girls-not-allowed.html

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                            August 8, 2013 Thursday

Canadian Teenager's Suicide Case Is Back in Spotlight

BYLINE: CHRISTINE HAUSER

LENGTH: 979 words



HIGHLIGHT: The authorities in Canada arrested two 18-year-old men, about four
months after Rehtaeh Parsons, 17, hanged herself at home and died three days
later. She said she had been gang-raped in 2011.


Updated, Friday, 12:43 p.m. | The suicide of a Canadian teenager in April
revived outrage that the police did not go far enough to investigate allegations
that she was gang-raped in 2011, then bullied after images of the assault were
shared and posted online.

But now the first charges have been announced in the case of the teenager,
Rehtaeh Parsons, whose death prompted Canada to take a new look at legislation
and police work covering material posted online.


Ms. Parsons's rape case was briefly investigated in November 2011 but then
reopened in April after her death revived public attention. Ms. Parsons hanged
herself in the bathroom at home and was discovered when her mother broke down
the door. Three days later, she was taken off life support and died.

On Thursday, as a result of that renewed investigation, the police announced
they had taken two 18-year-old men into custody for questioning. They later
charged one of them with two counts of distribution of child pornography and the
other with one count of distribution of child pornography and one count of
making child pornography.

There were no rape charges. "The available evidence did not meet the threshold
for sexual assault charges against the two individuals in this matter," said
Chief Jean-Michel Blais, of the Halifax Regional Police, at a news conference
late on Thursday. But he said if new verified information or a confession became
available, that could change.

The two men were released after being charged and will appear in Halifax Youth
Court on Aug. 15. Their names were not announced because of their age at the
time.

Cpl. Scott MacRae, a spokesman for the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, who
described the arrests  as a "significant event" in the case, said on Friday the
charges were based on one image, although some accounts have said several
photographs were shared.

As The Lede reported in April, the authorities quoted in a Canadian television
network's  had said there was not enough evidence after the first investigation
to bring charges. But Corporal MacRae said on Thursday that the arrests were the
result of months of renewed investigation with the regional police into files
and additional information after she died.

Ms. Parsons's suicide, at age 17, had sparked criticism over how the authorities
handled the gang rape allegations and whether they were equipped to fight
cyberbullying. Some drew comparisons with the Steubenville rape in Ohio in the
United States, because a cellphone photograph that was distributed among
students at Ms. Parsons's school apparently showed the sexual assault taking
place.

Ms. Parsons's case also attracted support from a loose network of hackers who
identify themselves as belonging to the Anonymous collective, who said they had
uncovered the names of the teenagers believed involved in the rape, soliciting
online support through Twitter using #OpJustice4Rehtaeh. A video attributed to
Anonymous said that it had names of two of the "alleged rapists" but would soon
have all four.

An account called AnonNorth and others reacted to the news of the arrests by
noting the role played by Anonymous.

@am640 If #Anonymous didn't get involved would there have been an
investigation/arrests in the Rehtaeh case? #OpJustice4Rehtaeh

- AnonNorth (@AnonymousNorth)8 Aug 13

In addition to the renewed police investigation, Ms. Parsons's case influenced
parts of a new Cyber-Safety Act that went into effect on Wednesday in Nova
Scotia, according to a statement by the Nova Scotia justice minister, Ross
Landry.

While criminal law in Canada is federal, the provincial legislation allows
victims to apply for a protection order that could place restrictions on, or
help identify, the cyberbully, and even sue the cyberbully, whose parents can be
held liable for damages if the cyberbully is a minor, the statement said.

The case also affected the way the police carried out their work. In the news
conference, officers said that the team was expanded beyond the sexual assault
experts used the first time around. "We are in a constant state of learning to
do things better," said Chief Superintendent Roland Wells, of the Halifax
district R.C.M.P.

Chief Blais said they were re-examining the way the police conducted
investigations on the Internet and the ways they obtain information.  "It was
driven a lot by social media," he said.

There were also questions about the extent to which public pressure came to bear
on the case. Chief Wells denied there had been any efforts to "placate" the
public, while also adding during the news conference that the sentence "won't be
impacted by global interest."

In media interviews, Ms. Parsons's mother, Leah Parsons, said the police came to
her home on Thursday morning after the arrests to let her know. She said she
felt "a little bit of a sense of relief that finally something has been done
after all this time," according to a report by The Chronicle Herald.

The newspaper quoted her as saying that she knows who was arrested: "The boys
(have said) they want to give their side of the story, but they've never given
their side of the story. So here's their opportunity."

She also spoke in an interview with CBC News, saying that the men arrested were
"in the heart of it," when asked whether they were on the periphery of what
happened to her daughter or central to it.

The Chronicle Herald interviewed her father, Glen Canning, who called the news
of the arrests "bittersweet."

UPDATE: "It's a little bit of bittersweet justice," Rehtaeh Parsons's father
@GlenfordCanning tells us re: arrests http://t.co/NLUctaCbsZ

- The Chronicle Herald (@chronicleherald)8 Aug 13


     ·    Canadian Teenager's Suicide Ignites Calls for Review of Rape Case
     ·    Astronaut Covers 'Space Oddity' From Space
     ·    How Blogger Helped the Steubenville Rape Case Unfold Online
     ·    The Rules of the Prank-Call Game
     ·    TV Anchor Takes on Viewer Who Complains About Her Weight


LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 11, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Will M.L.G. = N.F.L. + ESPN?

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2241 words


The must-see match this month on Major League Gaming, North America's foremost
video-gaming league, was the long-awaited face-off between FaZe and Impact, two
of the world's top teams at the military shooting game Call of Duty: Black Ops
II.

FaZe, still smarting from falling short in a match last spring in Dallas, had
rearranged its lineup and was hoping its brand-new captain, Replays, could keep
in check Impact's sharpest shooter, an accomplished slayer on the submachine gun
who goes by the name Killa.

It was shortly after 7 on a Thursday night, and the four-person teams -- their
members scattered across eight cities from Las Vegas to Philadelphia -- had
already logged on to their Xbox consoles. They now stood ready to do battle in a
digital competition broadcast live on the Internet, to thousands of fans, from
the league's main studio on the East Side of Manhattan.

''Hey, guys, and welcome to M.L.G. Pro Scrims!'' Chris Puckett, the league's
celebrated host, exclaimed as the camera lights clicked on and a jib-boom angled
toward him for a close-up.

Sitting at his broadcast desk, Mr. Puckett, using a microphone and headset,
turned to face his color commentator, the retired gamer RevaN (John Boble).

''So, Rev,'' Mr. Puckett went on, in a dramatic SportsCenter voice, ''we've got
a heck of a match tonight. FaZe versus Impact. Who goes home a winner?''

If you are not part of the target demographic -- young men, 18 to 34 years old
-- you probably have never heard of Major League Gaming and are no doubt unaware
that in the last 10 years, it has gradually emerged as the N.F.L. of the
professional gaming world. M.L.G., as the league is often called, has played a
central role in turning video games, once considered mere entertainments, into
an organized, and highly lucrative, form of sport.

Through its live-streamed matches and arena shows, the league has put to rest
that antiquated image from the days of the arcade -- the slacker playing Pac-Man
with quarters in his pocket -- and has helped to replace it with the
professional ''cyber-athlete,'' the full-time gamer who can earn six figures and
supplement his income with public appearances and product endorsements from
companies like Intel or Red Bull.

Since its start in 2002, M.L.G.'s Web site has hosted millions of viewers who
log on in the evening to watch its competitions and then click on to YouTube in
the morning to catch the latest highlight reels of matches they missed. Two
months ago, a crowd of 20,000 packed into the Anaheim Convention Center in
Southern California for the league's Spring Championships, a three-day contest
that unfolded -- in the real world -- in an atmosphere more commonly reserved
for basketball or football. There were thunder sticks and screaming fans and
vendors selling soft drinks. There were T-shirts, hoodies and other merchandise
at the concession stands.

''It was just like any traditional sport -- except they were playing video
games,'' said Sundance DiGiovanni, M.L.G.'s co-founder and chief executive
officer. ''We've always said there would come a time when parents would tell
their kids, 'Hey, get back inside and practice your video games. You're going to
have to pay for college someday.' ''

That time could be coming sooner than you think. According to the market
research firm DFC Intelligence, the global video-game industry is poised to have
revenues this year of $66 billion, up from $63 billion in 2012. As the largest
''e-sports'' organization in North America, Major League Gaming has experienced
a similar trend in growth. About 8 million people -- mostly men and mostly in
their 20s -- are registered as users on its Web site, majorleaguegaming.com. In
the last three years, the number of unique viewers visiting the site in a year
has rocketed to 11.7 million from 1.8 million -- an increase of more than 500
percent.

The Web site, a slickly packaged portal covered with videos and the league's
official logo (a white controller on a field of red, white and blue), is the
entry point for professional gamers and amateurs alike. While teams like FaZe
and Impact play on the site in cutthroat competitions broadcast live to 170
countries, hundreds of thousands of casual players also use it every month --
for a basic fee of $10 -- and compete against their peers.

''One thing that M.L.G. has done quite well is to foster a layer of amateur
players, almost like a farm league,'' said T. L. Taylor, an associate professor
at M.I.T. and the author of ''Raising the Stakes: E-Sports and the
Professionalization of Computer Gaming.''

''It's another way that they've signaled their connection to athleticism,''
Professor Taylor said. ''They've tried, intentionally, to link themselves to the
conventions of sport.''

Among those who have finally come around to the idea that Call of Duty -- or
StarCraft II -- is indeed a sport are United States immigration officials, who
just last month classified the world's top video-game players as professional
athletes. Under lobbying from M.L.G. and its partners in the industry, the
government decided it would issue athletes' visas to certain gamers from abroad,
allowing them to visit the United States more easily for tournaments.

The federal ruling was based on a gaming metric known as APMs, or actions per
minute. In StarCraft, for example, a military strategy game, the average player
can generally reach about 70 APMs. The world's most accomplished gamers -- like
the celebrated BoxeR, who lives in South Korea -- can execute as many as 400.
That means BoxeR, a master of the game, is able to perform more than six
separate keystrokes or movements of the mouse every second.

''The dexterity and visual acuity that takes is just incredible,'' Mike Sepso,
M.L.G.'s co-founder and president, said. ''When people say it doesn't take
athletic prowess, I tell them they should try it. Ordinary people just can't do
what professional gamers do. They have an agility that even Michael Jordan
didn't have.''

Major League Gaming was born by chance in the late 1990s at a party at the
Chelsea Hotel. Mr. Sepso and Mr. DiGiovanni, both then in their 20s and unknown
to each other, were invited by a mutual friend.

''I remember walking in,'' Mr. Sepso, 41, recalled recently, ''and seeing this
guy with an irritating mustache and an earring, ignoring everyone and playing
Gran Turismo.''

Mr. DiGiovanni, 40, remembered the meeting this way: ''Some guy in a bad blue
motorcycle jacket challenged me to play. I thought, 'Why not? I'll play him. If
he dresses like that, how good could he be?' ''

Within an hour a friendship had been formed, and within another year or two, the
men had started a business, Gotham Broadband, which helped develop business
plans and market strategies for telecom concerns.

Mr. Sepso, who attended Babson College in Wellesley, Mass., and Mr. DiGiovanni,
who studied film at the Tisch School of the Arts at N.Y.U., were among that
early class of techies who made a profit in the city's first Internet boom. Near
the turn of the millennium, however, they sensed that the bubble was about to
burst and sold their company, escaping into exile to live off their earnings and
play video games. Late one night, they found themselves at a bar and, wearied by
the scene, decided to go home and play Xbox. A handful of acquaintances went
with them -- stockbrokers, barflies and their girlfriends.

''It was a bunch of late 20s, A-type, New York personalities sitting in a room,
competing over video games,'' Mr. Sepso said. ''Sundance and I had the same
thought. If we're here doing this, then there have to be others who are out
there doing it, too.''

Within months, they had persuaded the owner of a Chinatown nightclub, Fun, to
let them project video games on a wall above the dance floor for spectators to
watch; eventually they developed an underground following in the local gaming
world.

This was at a moment when Mr. DiGiovanni started hearing rumors about secret
gaming tournaments held on college campuses around the country. He and Mr. Sepso
hit the road, visiting these tournaments on a kind of learning tour. ''They were
totally unorganized,'' Mr. DiGiovanni said. ''And we had some money left from
our first business, but it was quickly running out. So I told Mike, 'If we're
really going to do this, let's do it now.' ''

Major League Gaming was established that same year, and for its first four
seasons it was kept afloat exclusively through financing from its founders.
Then, in 2006, Oak Investment Partners, a local venture capital firm, gave the
pair money, and by 2012 it had invested nearly $60 million in the league. While
Mr. Sepso refused recently to discuss the company's revenues, he said that this
year would be its best in terms of total earnings. ''It's the first full year
that we'll be profitable,'' he said.

As with any digital concern, M.L.G.'s worry from the start was how to make money
from its growing traffic on the Internet. Seventy percent of its revenue comes
from advertising, Mr. Sepso said. As might be expected, from the beginning, game
developers, both large and small, bought advertising on the site. But in a
testament to the league's core audience -- boys with wealthy parents and their
own disposable income -- mainstream entities like carmakers, soft-drink
companies and the United States Army started to arrive.

Advertisers have also been enticed by a certain buzz that surrounds the league.
Mr. Sepso scored a coup in June, at the tournament in Anaheim, when he convinced
a group of N.B.A. stars to appear at the event in a special ''All-Star
Showdown.'' Among those who attended was Dwight Howard, then of the Los Angeles
Lakers, a gamer sufficiently committed to the sport that he showed up in the
middle of his free-agency negotiations -- arguably the most important moment of
his career.

''But the best part is that our hard-core fans ran right by him and tried to get
to Nadeshot,'' Mr. Sepso said, referring to a hugely popular gamer who plays for
OpTic, a team based in Chicago, and who has more than 200,000 followers on
Twitter and nearly a half-million subscribers to his YouTube channel.

Mr. Puckett, the 27-year-old on-air host, has also become a boldface name. He
often signs so many autographs at tournaments that his Sharpie runs dry.

Mirroring the ambitions of the industry as a whole, M.L.G.'s next step is to try
to break out of the video-gaming ghetto and attract a wider audience. Starting
this month, the league will gradually unveil an eclectic, five-hour block of
evening Internet broadcasts, adding lifestyle shows to its already popular
live-streamed competitions.

Heading up this effort is Mr. Puckett, who has added the title of vice president
for programming to his portfolio. The ideas he has kicked around include a John
Madden-like show on trash-talking gamers, and reality-television-style
documentaries on professional gaming houses -- residential compounds where top
teams live and practice together around the clock.

For the last five years, M.L.G., in a partnership with Dr Pepper, has produced
the gaming world's version of a home-makeover show, ''The Dr Pepper Ultimate
Gaming House,'' in which lucky contestants have their shabby home-gaming systems
overhauled with state-of-the-art consoles and 56-inch television sets.

''We want to approach things like a cable network and program prime time from at
least 7 to 11 every weeknight,'' Mr. Sepso said. In other words, M.L.G. is no
longer content to simply be the N.F.L. of professional gaming, but wants to be
its ESPN and HGTV, too.

''My goal,'' Mr. Puckett said the other day, ''is to take these guys who already
have a following, enhance their production values and put them on the network.''

In a few weeks, the league expects to announce a wide-ranging partnership with
an undisclosed film and television studio to develop projects and to further
integrate celebrity personalities into its broadcasts. ''Basically, it's a major
strategic relationship to spearhead our plans to move M.L.G. aggressively into
mainstream culture,'' Mr. Sepso said.

As for Mr. Puckett, his main objective is to create professional gaming's
equivalent of ESPN's SportsCenter, a daily digest of gaming news, competition
highlights, and game and product reviews. He envisions a program broken into 8
or 10 three-minute segments that could, as he put it, ''bridge the hard-core
gaming community to the casual viewer and still keep everyone entertained.''

In the meantime, though, he continues to announce matches for ''M.L.G. Pro
Scrims,'' and by the third game of the Best of 11 series between FaZe and
Impact, Impact was dominating the field, led by Killa, who had racked up 36
kills, 10 captures and 4 defends.

''There's just no doubt about it, Killa is the best Hardpoint Call of Duty
player out there today,'' Mr. Puckett's partner, RevaN, said. ''He's fantastic
on the submachine gun. He makes the kills happen.''

The match went on with a stream of commentary that sounded familiar in its
rhythms, if not its details -- ''Nice snipe there by Slacked!'' ''Ooh, Killa
with the knife kill on Spacely!'' -- and each game came to a conclusion with the
Round-Ending Killcam, which replayed particularly skillful moves in slow motion.

At one point the broadcast paused for a commercial break. Mr. Puckett, grinning
at the camera, made a comment that applied not just to the match at hand, but
also to M.L.G.'s future.

''Don't go too far, guys,'' he insisted. ''We'll be back.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/08/11/nyregion/seeking-to-be-both-nfl-and-espn-of-vi
deo-gaming.html

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At Major League Gaming in Manhattan, above, John Boble, at
left, and Chris Puckett announced a Call of Duty game. Left, a team focused on
its Call of Duty: Black Ops II match in Anaheim, Calif., in June. (PHOTOGRAPHS
BY JABIN BOTSFORD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ENRIQUE ESPINOZA FOR MAJOR LEAGUE GAMING) (MB1)
From top: The audience for the Major League Gaming winter championship in Dallas
in March
John Boble, at left, a retired gamer, and Chris Puckett during a match broadcast

Sundance DiGiovanni, at left, and Mike Sepso, the founders of Major League
Gaming
and employees of M.L.G. at the league's offices at 34th Street and Park Avenue.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ENRIQUE ESPINOZA FOR MAJOR LEAGUE GAMING
 JABIN BOTSFORD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 13, 2013 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

N.S.A. Leaks Make Plan For Cyberdefense Unlikely

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; Charlie Savage contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1279 words


WASHINGTON -- Even while rapidly expanding its electronic surveillance around
the world, the National Security Agency has lobbied inside the government to
deploy the equivalent of a ''Star Wars'' defense for America's computer
networks, designed to intercept cyberattacks before they could cripple power
plants, banks or financial markets.

But administration officials say the plan, championed by Gen. Keith B.
Alexander, the director of the National Security Agency and head of the
Pentagon's Cyber Command, has virtually no chance of moving forward given the
backlash against the N.S.A. over the recent disclosures about its surveillance
programs.

Senior agency officials concede that much of the technology needed to filter
malicious software, known as malware, by searching incoming messages for signs
of programs designed to steal data, or attack banks or energy firms, is
strikingly similar to the technology the N.S.A. already uses for surveillance.

''The plan was always a little vague, at least as Keith described it, but today
it may be Snowden's biggest single victim,'' one senior intelligence official
said recently, referring to Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor who
released documents revealing details of many of the agency's surveillance
programs.

''Whatever trust was there is now gone,'' the official added. ''I mean, who
would believe the N.S.A. when it insists it is blocking Chinese attacks but not
using the same technology to read your e-mail?''

On Friday, the N.S.A. reported for the first time that it ''touches about 1.6
percent'' of all the traffic carried on the Internet each day. In a statement,
it said it closely examines only a tiny fraction of that information. But
General Alexander's plan would put the agency, or Internet-service providers
acting on its behalf, in the position of examining a far larger percentage of
the world's information flows.

Under this proposal, the government would latch into the giant ''data pipes''
that feed the largest Internet service providers in the United States, companies
like A.T.&T. and Verizon. The huge volume of traffic that runs through those
pipes, particularly e-mails, would be scanned for signs of anything from
computer servers known for attacks on the United States or for stealing
information from American companies. Other ''metadata'' would be inspected for
evidence of malicious software.

''It's defense at network speed,'' General Alexander told a Washington
security-research group recently, according to participants. ''Because you have
only milliseconds.''

This summer, the N.S.A. has begun assembling scores of new cyber ''offense'' and
''defense'' teams, the agency's most concrete step toward preparing the Pentagon
and intelligence agencies for a new era of computer conflict. Erecting a
national cyberdefense is a key element of that plan. At an interagency meeting
that discussed the flood of cyberattacks directed daily at American networks,
from Chinese efforts to steal corporate secrets to Iranian efforts to cripple
financial institutions, General Alexander said, ''I can't defend the country
until I'm into all the networks,'' according to other officials who were
present.

The appeal of such a program is its seeming simplicity: The worst malware could
be blocked before it reaches companies, universities or individual users, many
of whom may be using outdated virus protections, or none at all. Normal
commercial virus programs are always running days, or weeks, behind the latest
attacks -- and the protection depends on users' loading the latest versions on
their computers.

The government has been testing a model for a national defense against
cyberattack with major defense contractors including Lockheed Martin, Boeing and
Raytheon. Early results were disappointing, but participants in the program --
the specific details of which are heavily classified -- say they are getting
significantly improved results. Each company in the defense industrial base
program now shares data on the kinds of attacks it is seeing, anonymously, with
other participating companies.

But for the N.S.A., which is building a target list of servers used by the most
aggressive cyberattackers, monitoring all Internet traffic would also be an
intelligence bonanza. It would give it a real-time way to watch computer servers
around the world, and focus more quickly on those it suspects are the breeding
ground for governments or private hackers preparing attacks.

Even before the Snowden revelations, General Alexander had encountered
opposition. Top officials of the Department of Homeland Security, which is
responsible for domestic defense of the Internet, complained that N.S.A.
monitoring would overly militarize America's approach to defending the Internet,
rather than making sure users took the primary responsibility for protecting
their systems.

The deputy secretary of defense, Ashton B. Carter, described in speeches over
the past year an alternative vision in which the government would step in to
defend America's networks only as a last line of defense. He compares the
Pentagon's proper role in defending cyberattacks to its ''Noble Eagle''
operation, in which it intercepts aircraft that appear threatening only after
efforts by the airlines to identify the passengers and by the Transportation
Safety Administration to search passengers and luggage have failed.

It appears unlikely that, with the administration divided, and faced with a
backlash against the N.S.A. in Congress, any proposal for a formal plan for
national cyberdefense will be submitted soon. Members of the Intelligence
Committees in the House and Senate said that they were only vaguely aware of
General Alexander's plan, but that it would almost certainly require
Congressional approval.

That is a fight the White House is not interested in having while it struggles
to get a much more modest cybersecurity bill through Congress after years of
arguments over privacy concerns and corporate America's fears that Washington
will dictate how companies protect data and how much they must spend on new
defenses. The bill failed last year, and passage this year appears in doubt.

Before the Snowden revelations, General Alexander's idea appeared to be gaining
some ground because of concerns over the cyber-enabled Chinese theft of critical
corporate secrets, including some designs for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.
Internal intelligence reports, based on N.S.A. analysis, attributed an attack on
American banks to Iran's cybercorps, a unit of the Revolutionary Guards.

''After the Iranian attacks, we were looking at these ideas pretty hard,'' said
a recently departed senior official in the Obama national security team, who
like other officials declined to be identified because of the sensitivities of
the government's discussions about building Internet defenses.

But this summer, the mood in Congress has changed. The White House only narrowly
avoided a House vote to cut off the collection of metadata about telephone calls
in the country. Suddenly a national debate emerged; along the way the N.S.A.
admitted that until 2011 it had collected about 1 percent of all e-mails in the
United States, until the program was canceled after being judged ineffective.

''Cyberissues usually change so rapidly because of the advance of technology,''
said Peter D. Feaver, a Duke University professor who worked in the National
Security Council in the George W. Bush administration.

''But the biggest change in the last year has been political: Public skepticism
about U.S. cyberoperations is dramatically higher today, and it could result in
political constraints that were off the table even a year ago.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/08/13/us/nsa-leaks-make-plan-for-cyberdefense-unlike
ly.html

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. Keith B. Alexander, director of the National Security
Agency, at a Senate hearing in June. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 23, 2013 Friday
                        The International Herald Tribune

Defenders Viewed as Intimidators

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM EUROPE; Pg.

LENGTH: 951 words


LONDON -- Throughout the long months of the Leveson inquiry into the behavior
and standards of the British press, the riddle that permeated its scrutiny of
the nation's newspapers was this: If journalists cast themselves as protectors
of public probity, who guards the guardians?

A comparable question now resonates for the authorities themselves: If Britain's
security apparatus is designed to shield the land against threat, who will
ensure that the laws that empower them to defend against terrorism are not
abused?

The concerns surfaced after the nine-hour detention, while transiting Heathrow
Airport, of David Miranda, the partner of the journalist Glenn Greenwald who has
reported for The Guardian on disclosures by the former National Security Agency
contractor Edward J. Snowden into the agency's intelligence-gathering.

Mr. Miranda was held under contentious laws supposed to protect Britons from
terrorism, provoking worries that the legislation -- Schedule 7 of the Terrorism
Act 2000, to give it its full name -- was being deployed without justification.

The alarms sounded yet louder when Alan Rusbridger, the editor of The Guardian,
reported that Britain's equivalent of the N.S.A., the Government Communications
Headquarters, or GCHQ, had sent two operatives to his offices to oversee the
destruction of computer hard drives.

The notion -- government spies in a newspaper office supervising cyber
-censorship -- seemed inconceivable to some Britons, their actions likened by
the Guardian columnist Simon Jenkins to ''book burners sent by the Spanish
Inquisition.''

When press freedoms are threatened, journalists are the first and the loudest to
cry foul. But the events surrounding Mr. Miranda's detention raised far broader
issues about the nature and motives of those who cite national security as the
imperative of secrecy.

''Suspicion is growing,'' the left-leaning Daily Mirror said in an editorial,
''that the Establishment, including 'securocrats' who want to be free to bug and
tap without scrutiny, are intimidating journalists in the hope of evading public
accountability.''

Official and hidden controls on the press are by no means new in Britain. A
system of unpublished edicts -- known as D-Notices -- has gagged reporters for
decades. As the Leveson inquiry confirmed, cozy ties between the police, the
press and politicians swayed news coverage.

But the latest disclosures coincide with a deepening mistrust of authority,
particularly the police, who are already facing questions about the integrity of
undercover activities in political and criminal investigations. ''We live in an
age in which government is held in contempt and transparency venerated,'' the
columnist Matthew d'Ancona wrote in The Evening Standard.

The disclosures by Mr. Snowden about cooperation between GCHQ and the N.S.A.
have deepened suspicions, moreover, that the ''special relationship'' with the
United States of which successive British leaders have been so proud is, in
fact, little more than a slavish kowtowing to America, forfeiting older,
libertarian values.

''In Britain we live in the oldest unbroken democracy on earth -- not a police
state,'' said Shami Chakrabarti, the head of the civil rights group Liberty.
''And yet the increasing power given to police under the Terrorism Act has
passed under the radar.''

In the process, Britain's quest for moral high ground from which to judge others
has been undermined. If Mr. Miranda had been seized ''by security services in
Moscow or Tehran, ministers would be accusing foreign powers of taking
liberties,'' The Daily Mirror said. Instead, ''this happened in London, so it is
our government with questions to answer.''

As Mr. Jenkins wrote in The Guardian, ''two great forces are now in fierce but
unresolved contention.''

The ''modern state,'' he wrote, ''is gathering, storing and processing for its
own ends electronic communication from around the world,'' while ''this power
has so corrupted those wielding it as to put them beyond effective democratic
control.''

There is a counterargument illuminating not ''the scary power of 21st century
government but its scary weakness,'' wrote Mr. d'Ancona. ''Digital technology
has made it alarmingly easy to seize, to store and to disclose at whim
extraordinarily sensitive information about the activities of those tasked with
protecting our collective security.''

That was as true of Mr. Snowden and Mr. Greenwald as it was of Bradley Manning
and Julian Assange.

British operatives may have acted in ways described variously as
counter-productive, crude, clunky and intimidatory, in other words, but their
actions illuminate the increasingly nuanced challenges they confront in seeking
to square a circle of secrecy, civil rights and national security.

In recent years, the authorities have sought to balance their apprehensions
about the intentions and motives of individual suspects -- often drawn from
clandestine surveillance -- against the call for due process in dealing with
them.

An array of conspiracies have been thwarted, and plotters have been prosecuted
in court. And, at every turn, the government has invoked its right and
responsibility to protect the country from terrorism -- an argument echoed by
the home secretary, Theresa May, in Mr. Miranda's case.

But the authorities have not established a link between his nine hours in
detention -- and the seizure of his electronic equipment -- and a defined
terrorist threat.

''Arbitrary powers bring huge dangers of injustice,'' said Ms. Chakrabarti,
referring to the counterterrorism laws. ''When these things are passed, people
think it will never happen to them.'' But episodes like the Miranda affair
''make us realize anybody could be targeted.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/08/23/world/europe/defenders-viewed-as-intimidators.
html

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                             August 30, 2013 Friday

The 'Black Budget,' Revealed

BYLINE: DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 571 words



HIGHLIGHT: Why are intelligence agency budgets classified? Is the government
worried about national security, or the accountability that comes with
disclosure?


For budget-watchers, it was a voyeuristic thrill to read through the Washington
Post's article today exposing the secret details of the intelligence community's
"black budget." The world now knows that the C.I.A. gets the biggest chunk of
intelligence spending at $14.7 billion for 2013, and that a little-known agency,
the National Reconnaissance Office, gets $10.3 billion, almost as much as the
National Security Agency. (The reconnaissance office builds spy satellites,
which are apparently rather pricey.)

Once the thrill wears off, an obvious question will remain: Why hadn't this
information been made public? Although the government releases the overall
spending total of $53 billion every year, we know the details only because
Edward Snowden stole the budget and then leaked it to the Post, which published
only a fraction of the document.

The Director of National Intelligence, James Clapper Jr., told the Post that the
details shouldn't be shown to the world.

"Our budgets are classified," he said, "as they could provide insight for
foreign intelligence services to discern our top national priorities,
capabilities and sources and methods that allow us to obtain information to
counter threats."

Obviously the government shouldn't reveal its sources and methods, but spending
details can't possibly be that useful to other countries or underground groups.
Today terrorists learned what they already knew: that combating them is the top
priority of the intelligence community, which has devoted a third of its budget
and a quarter of its workforce to counterterrorism. That's an impressive number
and a potentially useful and reassuring figure to curious taxpayers, but it will
hardly change Al Qaeda's strategy.

Similarly, it's good to know that the government is taking cyber-terrorism more
seriously, spending $4.3 billion to prevent electronic takeovers and vandalism
of vital American computer systems. Neither the number nor the effort itself
will come as a surprise to other countries who have been hacking into our
systems, and have started encountering a stronger American response.

Are the intelligence agencies really worried about the security ramifications of
releasing budget details? Or could it be that they're more worried about the
accountability that comes with disclosure? Once taxpayers know how much money
they are giving to the C.I.A., will they get more upset at how little the agency
knows about what really goes on inside Iran, Russia, China, and North Korea?
The "blank spots," according to the Post, "include questions about the security
of Pakistan's nuclear components when they are being transported, the
capabilities of China's next-generation fighter aircraft, and how Russia's
government leaders are likely to respond to potentially destabilizing events in
Moscow, such as large protests and terrorist attacks."

Accountability is the real purpose of transparency, and bringing it to bear on
intelligence gathering is hardly a radical idea. In 1976, the Senate's Church
Committee recommended budget disclosure, as have many lawmakers of both parties
in subsequent years. So, for that matter, did the 9/11 Commission. President
Obama, who has publicly advocated greater transparency on these issues, could
start by shining a light on the black budget.


     ·    Does Snowden Deserve Asylum?
     ·    Yes We Can to Yes We Scan
     ·    How Can We Debate Secret Law?
     ·    Edward Snowden's Mad Dash
     ·    Secrets, Non-Secrets and Leaks


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 1, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

An American Cyberoperations Offensive

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 807 words


WASHINGTON -- Newly disclosed budget documents for America's intelligence
agencies show how aggressively the United States is now conducting offensive
cyberoperations against other nations, even as the Obama administration protests
attacks on American computer networks by China, Iran and Russia.

The documents, obtained by The Washington Post from Edward J. Snowden, the
former National Security Agency contractor, and described by the paper in its
Saturday editions, indicate 231 such operations in 2011, a year after the first
evidence emerged of an American- and Israeli-led cyberattack against Iran's
nuclear-enrichment center.

That number suggests that President Obama was not deterred by the disclosure of
the Iranian operation, which became evident because of a technological error,
and is pressing ahead on using cyberweapons against a variety of targets.

The Post did not publish the documents. Last week, it said it had withheld most
of the 178 pages of documents at the request of government officials because of
the sensitivities of the spying operations they describe.

Unlike drone attacks, which the administration has begun to acknowledge publicly
and provide legal justifications for, cyberattacks are still regarded as part of
a secret arsenal that officials will not discuss.

The attacks described in the budget documents appear to be on a far smaller
scale than the series of attacks on Iran, which were part of a classified
operation called Olympic Games.

The Post reported a parallel effort, code-named GENIE, which it described as an
effort by American intelligence officials working for the N.S.A. and the
military's Cyber Command to insert surreptitious controls into foreign computer
networks. That computer code, a form of malware, allows American officials to
hijack the computers or route some of their data to servers that enable American
espionage.

It is unclear how many, if any, of those 231 operations were merely for
espionage or data manipulation, and how many may have been intended to destroy
or disable infrastructure. Computerized espionage is not new, though the
sophistication and scale of it has increased in recent years.

Offensive operations intended to alter data, turn off networks or destroy
machines -- which is what made the Iran operation so complex and unusual -- are
a far newer phenomenon. President Obama, in an executive order signed last year,
has reserved the right to decide when the United States should conduct such
operations. It is not clear how many of the 231 he approved.

Diplomatically, the disclosure of the latest Snowden documents poses a new
challenge to Mr. Obama. He has pressed China to cease its own cyberoperations in
the United States, many of which are aimed at the theft of intellectual property
including corporate secrets and the plans for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, the
country's most expensive new weapons system.

The Chinese have responded that America also conducts extensive cyberoperations,
including against China, and will doubtless use the most recent disclosures to
press that case. So far, Mr. Obama's effort to get the Chinese engaged in a
deeper dialogue on cyberissues has yielded discussions, but little fruit.

The Pentagon has insisted that the United States does not engage in economic
espionage, the specialty of Chinese forces like Unit 61398, a People's
Liberation Army operation behind many of the intrusions into American systems.

But it does conduct what specialists call ''network exploitation,'' which it
distinguishes from ''attacks,'' to obtain military or intelligence secrets and
intercept cell and digital communications. Attacks, at least as defined by the
military, would involve destruction of computer equipment or the facilities
those networks run.

The Post said a budget document defined network exploitation as ''surreptitious
virtual or physical access to create and sustain a presence inside targeted
systems or facilities.'' That appears to be part of the offensive operations,
and can often pave the way to ''facilitate future access,'' the document said.

The documents indicate that the N.S.A. spent $25 million on ''covert purchases
of software vulnerabilities.'' These are often flaws in commercial software,
often in the near-ubiquitous Windows operating system, that make it possible to
secretly enter and manipulate data.

The bulk of the work inside the N.S.A. is conducted by the Tailored Access
Operations group, one of the most secretive units in a secretive agency.

Recently, Gen. Keith B. Alexander, who directs the N.S.A. and commands the
military's Cyber Command, spoke publicly of creating 40 cyberteams, including 13
focused on offensive operations.

The defensive operations include protections for the American military and other
government agencies, and efforts to detect broad cyberattacks launched on the
United States.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/09/01/world/americas/documents-detail-cyberoperation
s-by-us.html

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edward J. Snowden provided documents describing intrusions into
foreign computers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE GUARDIAN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 7, 2013 Saturday
                        The International Herald Tribune

Venice Festival's Highs and Lows

BYLINE: By RODERICK CONWAY MORRIS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; VENICE FILM FESTIVAL; Pg.

LENGTH: 998 words


VENICE -- When the French director Patrice Leconte, whose previous successes
include ''The Hairdresser's Husband'' and ''Ridicule,'' began working on his
film adaptation of Stefan Zweig's ''Journey into the Past'' he found himself in
something of a quandary, according to his director's notes.

Set in Germany shortly before and during World War I, he judged the story too
specific to its location to contemplate shooting it in French. He then thought
of making it in German, but unable to speak the language himself he rejected
that option. He eventually decided to make this French production in English
with British actors in the principal roles (and shoot it in Belgium).

The film, ''A Promise,'' was a late addition to the out-of-competition list of
this year's Venice Film Festival, which ends on Saturday night with the awarding
of the Golden Lion and other prizes. It is a pity that this artfully directed
and subtly acted drama is not eligible for these awards, for which it would have
been a worthy candidate.

It opens in a German steel-making town in 1912. A young engineer who has
graduated from university with first-class honors, Friedrich Zeitz (Richard
Madden) arrives at the steelworks owned by the seemingly severe Karl Hoffmeister
(Alan Rickman). Friedrich soon proves himself to be extremely capable and is
entrusted with ever-increasing responsibilities.

Herr Hoffmeister, it emerges, has a serious health problem, and when he is
ordered by his doctor to work from home, Friedrich finds himself shuttling back
and forth between the Hoffmeister mansion and the steelworks to carry out Karl's
orders.

Herr Hoffmeister also has a beautiful young wife, Lotte (Rebecca Hall), many
years his junior, and this happily married couple have a son, Otto (Toby
Murray), a bright and lively boy who is not doing well at school. Friedrich's
offer to help Otto with his lessons is enthusiastically taken up by his mother.

Unsurprisingly, Friedrich and Lotte become increasingly attracted to each other,
but the nature of this triangle proves unusually complex, and is explored with
great delicacy in this intriguing tale of love and passion, of conflicting
loyalties and self-sacrifice. And the director and his co-scriptwriter Jerome
Tonnerre offer an alternative, but emotionally convincing, ending.

At 72, the Japanese master of animation Hayao Miyazaki, director of ''Spirited
Away,'' ''Howl's Moving Castle'' and ''Ponyo on the Cliff by the Sea,'' is
clearly at the height of his powers, yet as his latest work, ''Kazu Tachinu''
(The Wind Rises) appeared in competition, he announced that this would be his
last feature film.

Mr. Miyazaki's vast artistic knowledge and powers of invention never cease to
amaze, and in ''The Wind Rises'' he offers not only an engaging life story but a
panoramic vision of Japan's history, and of its urban and rural landscapes, from
the early 1920s to the mid-1940s.

The hero is Jiro Horikoshi, who was Japan's most important designer of airplanes
(including the Mitsubishi Zero fighter). A young boy with dreams of becoming a
pilot but who, being near-sighted, turns instead to engineering, Miyazaki's Jiro
is actually a composite figure, based on the famous engineer and on one of his
contemporaries, the writer Tatsuo Hori.

There is also a touching romantic subplot about the fictional Jiro's love affair
with Nahoko, whom he marries shortly before she dies of consumption, like
countless Japanese who succumbed to an epidemic of the disease during this
period.

The action is bookended by two apocalyptic disasters that the country suffered
during the 20th century, vividly depicted by Mr. Miyazaki: the Great Kanto
Earthquake of 1923 and the firebombing of Tokyo in 1945 (the director finished
the story boards for the Great Kanto Earthquake on the day before the latest
seismic catastrophe to devastate his homeland: the earthquake and tsunami of
March 2011).

Two other in-competition star vehicles disappointed in varying degrees: Jonathan
Glazer's ''Under the Skin'' and Terry Gilliam's ''The Zero Theorem.''

In Mr. Glazer's film version of the novel of the same title by Michel Faber,
Scarlett Johansson plays a nameless alien who roves around Scotland in a van
enticing young men into dark places, where something terminally unpleasant
happens to them, seemingly in order to provide some sort of nonvegetarian
sustenance for her fellow extraterrestrials (although exactly what is going on
never becomes clear).

While some of Daniel Landin's cinematography -- of the Scottish landscape, of
Ms. Johansson's curvaceous body in various states of undress, and of the
liquefaction of a series of hapless Caledonians -- is striking, what enticed the
Hollywood star into this virtually wordless, robotic role remains the overriding
mystery of this entire enterprise.

Terry Gilliam in ''The Zero Theorem'' returns to a dystopic world reminiscent of
the one in ''Brazil'' in 1984. In this case the governing dictatorship is known
as ''Management,'' of which the face is Matt Damon in a cameo role.

The regime keeps teams of computer nerds hard at work trying to crack the Zero
Theorem of the film's title, which will supposedly explain the whole reason for
human existence, the universe and so on and so forth. One such drone is Qohen
Leth, played by the two-time Oscar winner Christoph Waltz, who inhabits a
rodent-infested deconsecrated church, stuffed with hidden cameras that allow the
authorities to monitor his progress and what little private life he has.

Judging him to be an operator who might succeed where so many others have failed
and who might finally crack the code, the powers that be attempt to keep Qohen
slaving over his electronic lathe by dispatching first a cyber call-girl,
Bainsley (Mélanie Thierry), and then Management's computer genius son Bob (Lucas
Hedges) to provide him with encouragement and technical backup. Everything about
the film is complete gobbledegook, but the lovely Ms. Thierry's sexy and funny
performance is a delight.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/09/07/arts/07iht-venice07.html

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 15, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pynchonopolis

BYLINE: By JONATHAN LETHEM

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1921 words


BLEEDING EDGEBy Thomas Pynchon

477 pp. The Penguin Press. $28.95.

Are you ready for Thomas (Screaming Comes Across the Sky) Pynchon on the subject
of Sept. 11, 2001? On the one hand, his poetry of paranoia and his grasp of
history's surrealist passages make a perfect fit. Yet his slippery insouciance,
his relentless japery, risk being tonally at odds with the subject. Either way,
and despite his sensibility's entrenchment in '60s Californian hippiedom,
Pynchon is a New Yorker, with an intimate license to depict the sulfurous gray
plumes and tragic tableaus of that irreconcilable moment: ''On the way home she
passes the neighborhood firehouse. They're in working on one of the trucks. . .
. She threads among the daily bunches of flowers on the sidewalk, which will be
cleared in a while. The list of firefighters here who were lost on 11 September
is kept back someplace more intimate, out of the public face, anybody wants to
see it they can ask, but sometimes it shows more respect not to put such things
out on a billboard. . . . What makes these guys choose to go in, work 24-hour
shifts and then keep working, keep throwing themselves into those shaky ruins,
torching through steel, bringing people to safety, recovering parts of others,
ending up sick, beat up by nightmares, disrespected, dead?''

Thomas Pynchon, meet Pete Hamill? Not so fast. For it is the audacity or
recklessness of ''Bleeding Edge,'' Pynchon's new novel, also to sound like this:
''Maxine notices this one party out on a remote curve of the bar, drinking you'd
say relentlessly what will prove to be Jägermeister and 151, through a Day-Glo
straw out of a 20-ounce convenience-store cup. . . . Sure enough it's him, Eric
Jeffrey Outfield, übergeek, looking, except for the bare upper lip and a newly
acquired soul patch, just like his ID photo. He is wearing cargo pants in a camo
print whose color scheme is intended for some combat zone very remote, if not
off-planet, and a T-shirt announcing, in Helvetica,

REAL GEEKS USE COMMAND PROMPTS , accessorized with a Batbelt clanking like a
charm bracelet with remotes for TV, stereo and air conditioner, plus laser
pointer, pager, bottle opener, wire stripper, voltmeter, magnifier, all so tiny
that one legitimately wonders how functional they can be.''

In fact, the awful day is delayed for more than 300 pages, by which time the two
airliners crash not only into the twin towers but into an exemplary Pynchon
shaggy-dog novel in full effect. This one, featuring earth notes of Bret Easton
Ellis and William Gibson, concerns the diversion of funds, by the shambolic
white-collar outlaw Lester Traipse, from a hot Internet start-up called
hashslingrz to a fiber brokerage called Darklinear Solutions, under the knowing
eye of the corrupt dot-com entrepreneur Gabriel Ice. These figures move among
dozens, in a conspiracy typically dazzling and ludicrous, as well as impossible
(and maybe unimportant) to confidently trace.

We join a good companion in failing to trace it: Maxine Tarnow, fraud
investigator and mother of two, who among Pynchon's protagonists is rivaled for
tangibility and homely charm only by the doper private eye Doc Sportello, from
2009's ''Inherent Vice.'' Though this book's about as long as ''V.,''
categorists will mark it as Comparatively Stable, with ''The Crying of Lot 49''
and ''Vineland,'' as opposed to the Utterly Centrifugal: ''Gravity's Rainbow''
and ''Against the Day.'' Maxine pinballs between workplace and family, and among
the men in her life: her ex-husband, the commodities trader Horst Loeffler; her
infuriating fake-Zen shrink, Shawn; and the neoliberal death-squad spook
Nicholas Windust, Pynchon's latest update of his prototypical cop-heavy. Like
Philip Marlowe, Maxine plunges into dive bars armed with nothing but her wits --
except Marlowe never stripped for a pole dance to surveil customers from the
vantage of the stage. She also visits DeepArcher, a realm of the ''deep Web''
providing sanctuary for the avatars of fugitive gamers, ­cyber-anarchists and
possibly the 9/11 dead. Pynchon has consistently invoked these sorts of
quasi-mystical vales of yearning: spaces outside space, and times outside time.
DeepArcher is his latest bardo.

But wait. I'm acting as if we all know what it is to read Pynchon. In fact none
of us do, for figuring out what it is like to read Pynchon is what it is like to
read Pynchon. You're never done with it. He'll employ a string of citations to
real and imaginary Bette Davis movies, say, or riffs on basketball, much as
Pollock uses a color on a panoramic canvas or Coltrane a note in a solo:
incessantly, arrestingly, yet seemingly without cumulative purpose. Instead,
they're threads for teasing at, or being teased by. Try Bette Davis, who often
played good/bad twins or sisters: she resonates -- uh, maybe? -- with Pynchon's
Poe-like attraction to characters split into sinister mirrored doubles. Or try
basketball, which in Pynchon's scheme appears to connect disparate persecuted
tribes like Mayans, Jews and African-Americans -- yet why then does Horst (''a
fourth-generation product of the U.S. Midwest, emotional as a grain elevator'')
twice hold his head in both hands ''as if about to attempt a foul shot with
it''?

Well, basketball's Midwestern too. As Hitchcock said, admiring his own
''Strangers on a Train'': ''Isn't it a fascinating design? One could study it
forever.'' This down-the-rabbit-hole invitation, accepted by generations of fans
and scholars, confronts those wishing to join the party with a lost sensation:
at which secret mailbox do you send away for a decoder ring?

Motifs bleed off the edge of one Pynchon canvas onto the next. Partisans of Pig
Bodine, from 1963's ''V.'' -- he of the ''remarkably acute nose,'' who is
''never known . . . to guess wrong'' about a brand of beer -- will thrill at
meeting, 50 years later, Conkling Speedwell, ''a freelance professional Nose . .
. born with a sense of smell far more calibrated than the rest of us normals
enjoy.'' New readers may groan, not least at that reference to ''normals'' --
are Pynchonites merely flashing hipster credentials? Sure, nobody wants to be
the P.C. in the commercial, but who'd want to hang out with that smug Mac?

What this misses, though, is the sheer vitality and fascination, the plummets
into beauty and horror, the unique flashes of galactic epiphany, in Pynchon's
method. Our reward for surrendering expectations that a novel should gather in
clarity, rather than disperse into molecules, isn't anomie but delight. Pynchon
himself's a good companion, full of real affection for his people and places,
even as he lampoons them for suffering the postmodern condition of being only
partly real. He spoils us with descriptive flights. Here's uptown Manhattan in
the rain: ''What might only be a simple point on the workday cycle . . . becomes
a million pedestrian dramas, each one charged with mystery, more intense than
high-barometer daylight can ever allow. Everything changes. There's that clean,
rained-on smell. The traffic noise gets liquefied. Reflections from the street
into the windows of city buses fill the bus interiors with unreadable 3-D
images, as surface unaccountably transforms to volume. Average pushy Manhattan
schmucks crowding the sidewalks also pick up some depth, some purpose -- they
smile, they slow down, even with a cellular phone stuck in their ear they are
more apt to be singing to somebody than yakking. Some are observed taking
houseplants for walks in the rain. Even the lightest umbrella-to-umbrella
contact can be erotic.''

This time out, Pynchon may be pursuing a small clarification in his historical
pageant of conspiracy. ''Bleeding Edge'' unnervingly plays footsie with 9/11
trutherism, but I think the discomfort this arouses is intentional. Like DeLillo
in ''Libra,'' Pynchon is interested in the mystery of wide and abiding
complicity, not some abruptly punctured innocence: ''Somewhere, down at some
shameful dark recess of the national soul, we need to feel betrayed, even
guilty. As if it was us who created Bush and his gang, Cheney and Rove and
Rumsfeld and Feith.'' Horst, who possesses an idiot-savant gift for profitable
investment predictions -- Tyrone Slothrop on Wall Street! -- observes a dip in
certain airline shares the week before 9/11, and wonders: ''How could predicting
market behavior be the same as predicting a terrible disaster?'' Maxine supplies
the answer: ''If the two were different forms of the same thing.''

While everyday paranoiacs believe the worst questions have monstrously simple
answers, paranoid art knows the more terrifying (and inevitable) discoveries are
further questions. Paranoid art traffics in interpretation, and beckons
interpretation from its audience; it distrusts even itself, and so becomes the
urgent opposite of complacent art. In Pynchon's view, modernity's systems of
liberation and enlightenment -- railway and post, the Internet, etc. --
perpetually collapse into capitalism's Black Iron Prison of enclosure, monopoly
and surveillance. The rolling frontier (or bleeding edge) of this collapse is
where we persistently and helplessly live. His characters take sustenance on
what scraps of freedom fall from the conveyor belt of this ruthless conversion
machine, like the house cat at home in the butcher's shop. In Joyce's
formulation, history is a nightmare from which we are trying to awake. For
Pynchon, history is a nightmare within which we must become lucid dreamers.

Thomas Pynchon is 76, and his refusal to develop a late style is practically
infuriating. The man's wildly consistent: the only reason ''Bleeding Edge''
couldn't have been published in 1973 is that the Internet, the Giuliani/Disney
version of Times Square and the war on terror hadn't come along yet. This book,
and ''Inherent Vice,'' make jubilant pendants on his mammoth enterprise, neon
signposts to themes he took no trouble to hide in the first place.

Pynchon depicts the world as he sees it, riddled by the depredations of greed,
conspiracy and intolerance, of entropies both human-engineered and cosmically
imposed. But his novels take the form of the world as he wishes it, hence their
mighty powers of consolation. The freedoms and duties Pynchon assigns himself
are those he desires on our behalf -- lasciviousness, punning inanity, attention
to the routinely sublime but also to the inevitability of suffering, love for
the underdog and a home in our hearts for the dead. Also, license to attempt
disappearance into some radical space adjacent to history, and to daily life --
what the anarchist philosopher Hakim Bey has called ''Temporary Autonomous
Zones'' -- even if the costs of such jaunts are, in the end, punishingly high.
There's much talk of time travel in ''Bleeding Edge,'' but getting unmoored is
hardly a free ride: ''You don't just climb into a machine, you have to do it
from inside out, with your mind and body, and navigating Time is an unforgiving
discipline. It requires years of pain, hard labor and loss, and there is no
redemption -- of, or from, anything.''

In summary: Despite the lack of personal information supplied about the author,
it's plain, from the sweep and chortle of his sentences, from the irascible
outbreaks of horniness, from the pinpoint rage at popular hypocrisy and cant,
that young Pynchon is a writer of boundless promise, sure to give us a long
shelf of entrancing and charismatic novels. I believe he has a masterpiece or
three in him. I look forward to seeing what he'll do next.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/09/15/books/review/bleeding-edge-by-thomas-pynchon.h
tml

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY MARIO WAGNER) (BR1
BR24)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 15, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

International Thrillers

BYLINE: By JAN STUART.

Jan Stuart is the author of ''The Nashville Chronicles: The Making of Robert
Altman's Masterpiece.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; THE SHORTLIST; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1031 words


THE KILL LISTBy Frederick Forsyth G. P. Putnam's Sons, $27.95.

Law enforcers and government officials across England and America are being
assassinated in broad daylight by Muslim radicals. Egging them on is Zulfiqar
Ali Shah, a k a The Preacher, a cyber-evangelist who exhorts them to murder a
notable Westerner in their vicinity. Hot on the orator's tail is Kit Carson, a k
a The Tracker, star bloodhound for TOSA, an intelligence agency of strenuously
complex origins, and Roger Kendrick, a k a Ariel, a teenage computer genius.
Frederick Forsyth, a k a pre-eminent writer of thrillers, once again
demonstrates his predilection for headline-trawling; his latest includes
disturbingly prescient intimations of the Lee Rigby murder. But the deployment
of aliases, acronyms and techno­speak reduces the reality of terrorism to the
machinations of movies and video games. Action sequences are tipsy with
testosterone (male comrades exchange ''fervent man hugs''), but when it comes to
character development, every expense is spared. Women, no surprise, get the
short end of the stick: Carson's mother and wife are killed off by Chapter 2,
and third-­person feminine pronouns, when they surface with any frequency, refer
to a fishing boat.

WEAPONIZEDBy Nicholas Mennuti with David Guggenheim Mulholland/Little, Brown,
$26.

''The government's been listening to all of us for years,'' claims Kyle West,
the beleaguered brainiac at the center of this freewheeling thriller. And he
should know, having devised computer technology that out-Big-Brothers the state
at its own surveillance game. Common sense takes leave of uncommon intelligence
when, on the lam in Cambodia from Senate subcommittee hearings and
civil-liberties lawsuits, West trades passports with a wealthy businessman who
convinces him the swap will make all his troubles go away. Fat chance. The
stranger, Julian Robinson, thrusts West into a frenetic cat-and-mouse that has
Chinese authorities and a C.I.A. specialist in extraordinary rendition nipping
at his tail. Where some books nakedly brandish Hollywood ambitions,
''Weaponized'' plays like a Looney Tunes cartoon aspiring to literature:
wiseacre ripostes and slapstick violence trade off with passages of Graham
Greene-ish erudition and atmosphere. Phnom Penh, whose ''shanties seem to wilt
in the heat and lean on one another for support, a series of dislocated
shoulders,'' comes across as today's go-to city for Western ne'er-do-wells who
long to get lost in the crowd.

THE GENEVA OPTIONBy Adam LeBor Bourbon Street/HarperCollins, paper, $14.99.

If polyglot ethnic heritage secured a person's influence at the United Nations,
Yael Azoulay, a negotiator whose family tree sprawls from Iraq to Israel, would
be in line for top dog. As a U.N. official whose job description requires
brokering deals with dictators, she's powerful enough to get herself into very
hot water by Page 29 of LeBor's tightly knotted thriller.

Many monsters prey upon Yael: a Rwandan mass murderer, corporate executives and
U.N. policy makers whose namby-pamby approach to conflict resolution has enabled
ethnic cleansers of all stripes. As a glimpse into U.N. workings, however, ''The
Geneva Option'' succeeds less as indictment of organizational paralysis than
insider's guide. LeBor shows facility with the telling detail, but indulges one
too many conventions of the genre: the stain on the protagonist's past, a
sinister albino and a rapacious German conglomerate. The author also sends out
very mixed signals about gender and power. The American president is a woman,
credibly enough, yet in the line of duty Yael herself is compelled to play the
pliant sex kitten on multiple occasions.

MASARYK STATIONBy David Downing Soho Crime, $26.95.

''There's not much difference between journalism and espionage,'' a character
observes in Downing's final novel featuring John Russell, a British-born
newsman-cum-spy who would like more than anything to come in from the cold. But
as a double agent passing confidences to both American and Russian intelligence
agencies in 1948, he's got more than his lot of dissembling to do: the Soviets
are shoring up ''Stalin's rapidly coagulating empire,'' the Americans hope to
contain Soviet hegemony without getting sucked into another war, and each is
attempting to keep tabs on Yugoslavia's independent-­minded president Tito,
whose notions of a softer Communism make both sides nervous. Wearing multiple
faces would seem to come easy for Russell, a onetime Communist whose youthful
ideals have given way to a midlife taste for luxury. Downing adroitly elucidates
the morass that was post-World War II geopolitics without dumbing down. His
sixth Russell opus shows signs of cloak-and-dagger fatigue (even readers new to
the genre know not to take suicides and suspicious bombings at face value), but
one can only marvel at his talent for infusing such a rangy cast of characters
with nuance and soul.

BOMBSHELLBy James Reich Soft Skull, $15.95.

Somewhere between the macho-hipster fantasies of Quentin Tarantino and the
banshee-activist theatrics of Pussy Riot dwells Varyushka Cash, a Chernobyl
survivor fixated on annihilating the corporate family at the top of America's
nuclear-­industry food chain and wreaking havoc at the Indian Point nuclear
plant. With the feminist anarchist Valerie Solanas as her role model, Cash
stalks her prey, garbed in redhead-reporter drag à la Jane Fonda in ''The China
Syndrome.'' She's abetted by a tall transsexual Vietnam vet and pursued by a
waterboarding ace from the C. I. A. Reich's second novel lifts off on an
unintentionally hilarious wave of camp (''She felt it, as native as her own
uterus, the film reel of her blood bar-coded by bombs, manipulated by
centerfolds and centrifuges, weird mists from the factories of power''),
crashing down in its final chapters with a brace of coincidences and an orgy of
urban-apocalypse porn. ''Picassos blew in tatters across the bloody steps of the
Metropolitan Museum, a private 'Guernica' of granite stripped and hollowed by
petrol bombs; Rockefeller Plaza choked under obscene graffiti; the evidence of
sexual assaults on the steps of St. Mark's.'' Now that's entertainment.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/09/15/books/review/the-kill-list-by-frederick-forsyt
h-and-more.html

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHN GALL)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 1, 2013 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Britain Plans to Require Community Service for Long-Term Unemployment Benefits

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 853 words


LONDON -- Jobless Britons could be forced to do community work to keep their
unemployment payments, Britain's top economics minister said Monday, announcing
the latest in a series of moves to tighten benefits rules and crack down on
''welfare dependency.''

Under the plan, those out of work for more than two years could be required to
take on tasks like cooking for the elderly or cleaning up litter to keep their
payments. The initiative represents a significant hardening of policy in a
country that once considered the idea of ''workfare'' taboo.

The minister, George Osborne, made his announcement in a speech at the
Conservative Party's annual conference in Manchester. He also said he would try
to freeze duties on fuel in an effort to ease the squeeze on incomes still being
felt by many Britons, even as the economy is showing signs of a recovery.

He simultaneously outlined a long-term goal of building a budget surplus,
suggesting that if the Conservatives win the next general election, due in May
2015, they will keep up the pressure to contain public spending.

Despite clear signs of an economic upturn, Mr. Osborne, the chancellor of the
Exchequer, was careful to emphasize that a recovery was not yet secure and that
there should be no sense of ''a task completed or a victory won.''

His most eye-catching pronouncement was on welfare -- the latest such shift from
the Conservatives, who head a coalition government with the Liberal Democrats
and who have identified such ''tough love'' policies as popular with the
electorate.

The plans outlined by Mr. Osborne would not require primary legislation, meaning
no vote in Parliament, the Department for Work and Pensions said Monday.
Instead, changes to regulations will be ''brought forward shortly,'' the
department said.

With an election less than 20 months away, the Conservative Party is trying to
highlight the policy areas where it believes it has a lead in public opinion
over the opposition Labour Party. Welfare is prominent among them.

The Conservatives are also trying to combat a threat to their right from the
U.K. Independence Party, which campaigns against the European Union and
immigration, and says it wants to ''make welfare a safety net for the needy, not
a bed for the lazy.''

At the same time, Prime Minister David Cameron has faced internal dissent from
some right-wing Conservative lawmakers who opposed his move to allow same-sex
marriage and who want him to take a tougher line on Europe and immigration.

Already, the jobless can be sent on work placements, where they are required to
do a month's full-time work to keep their benefits, and the government has
introduced a cash limit on the amount per week that most people ages 16 to 64
can receive from the state.

But on Monday, Mr. Osborne went further when he said those unemployed for two
years would be required to do ''useful work putting something back into their
community.'' Alternatively, they could be required to attend job centers each
day, while those with problems like drug addiction would be on an ''intensive
regime of support.''

''No one will be ignored or left without help, but no one will get something for
nothing,'' Mr. Osborne said, speaking from a platform that bore the slogan ''For
hardworking people.'' ''A fair welfare system is fair to those who need it and
fair for those that pay for it, too.''

Mr. Osborne also accused the previous Labour government of making the ''problem
of welfare dependency worse.''

The issue remains divisive in Britain. While the right-leaning Sun tabloid
praised the initiative, the left-leaning Daily Mirror wrote about Mr. Osborne's
proposal under the headline ''Back to the Workhouse,'' a reference to the
institutions that Britain's unemployed were once forced into.

In a statement, Rachel Reeves, an economic spokeswoman for the Labour Party, was
critical of Mr. Osborne's proposal and offered an alternate plan. ''With
Labour's plans,'' she said, ''we would work with employers to ensure there are
jobs for young people and the long-term unemployed -- which they would have to
take up or lose benefits.''

Under Mr. Osborne's plan, she said, people will still be allowed ''to languish
on the dole for years on end without having a proper job.''

Earlier, in an interview with the BBC, Mr. Osborne ruled out any agreements
between Conservatives and the U.K. Independence Party on which races to contest.
Some Conservative lawmakers have called for a formal pact, warning that the U.K.
Independence Party could draw votes away from them, possibly depriving them of
an election victory.

In an announcement on Sunday, Philip Hammond, the defense secretary, said
Britain would develop ''a full-spectrum military cybercapability, including a
strike capability.'' In its statement, the Ministry of Defense said it would
recruit hundreds of reservists as computer experts to work alongside regular
forces in the creation of a Joint Cyber Reserve Unit.

''Increasingly, our defense budget is being invested in high-end capabilities
such as cyber and intelligence and surveillance assets to ensure we can keep the
country safe,'' Mr. Hammond said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/10/01/world/europe/britain-plans-to-require-communit
y-service-for-jobless-benefits.html

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                            October 1, 2013 Tuesday

What 'Connected Education' Looks Like: 28 Examples From Teachers All Over

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 4985 words



HIGHLIGHT: Steal these ideas! We invited anyone who has ever blogged for The
Learning Network to post an example of &#8220;connected teaching&#8221; or
&#8220;connected learning.&#8221; Read their wonderful responses, then tell us
how you&#8217;d answer the question.


 A video created by Esther Wojcicki's journalism students at Palo Alto High
School to encourage other students to "impact the world" with new ways of
learning.

Happy Connected Educator Month!

Last year, for the inaugural C.E.M., we invited anyone who had ever blogged for
The Learning Network to answer two simple questions about their "personal
learning network," and 35 people took us up on the offer.

As we wrote then, the result was a crash course in how to be a "connected
educator," since together our guest writers linked to more than 100 people,
organizations, sites and other resources all teachers should know about.

We liked the results so much we're reprising the idea, but this year we asked
our guests a different question. How would you answer it?

What might "connected teaching" or "connected learning"  - that is, using
technology to build communities and share knowledge - look like in practice?

Describe one recent example, small or large, from your own classroom or
organization, or from work you have heard or read about, and tell us why you
chose it.

Read the 28 wonderful responses from our guest bloggers below, then post your
own answers.

We also invite you to connect again later this month when, together with a host
of other literacy organizations, we will celebrate the National Day on Writing
with an Oct. 21 Twitter event in which schools everywhere are encouraged to post
about how they #Write2Connect.

Steven Azeka |  Stephen Gaynor School

Reader Idea | A Manhattan Teacher Revisits Hurricane Sandy

Two teachers and I created our own soci­­al network via Edmodo to further
students' understanding about social and economic issues surrounding
immigration.

We assigned students individual profiles of 19th-century immigrants, which
students used to answer questions about housing and work conditions. The result
of the project was empathy for the immigrant characters they were assigned, as
well as a greater ability to organize and communicate perspectives on their
characters' day-to-day living circumstances.  Additionally, students
demonstrated deeper understanding of the mechanisms by which immigrants sought
cultural and societal integration in 19th-century America.

|  LaGuardia Community College

Reader Idea | 'One in Eight Million' for English Language Learners

I am always looking for ways to use mobile phones for teaching and learning.
Students have very powerful devices in their pockets, and it seems like a missed
opportunity to neglect them as tools for learning.

I recently started asking students to take pictures of new vocabulary and idioms
that they see outside the classroom, and once a week I compile their pictures
and we go through these "lists" in the classroom. I like that students are
constructing their own word lists based on their learning needs, but more
importantly I like that students are using their phones to build a bridge
between the real world and the classroom.

Shaelynn Farnsworth | School Improvement Consultant

Reader Ideas | Teachers and the 9/11 Anniversary

As a former high school English teacher in a 1:1 District, B.C.L.U.W., in
Conrad, Iowa, I have countless examples of how connecting teaching and learning
brought some of the best thinkers around the world to small-town Iowa and into
my classroom. Here are a few:


     ·    We did a collaborative Google presentation over the novel "The Giver"
          with@emilystensland's  class, who later fund-raised in their own
          school for a student of mine who was diagnosed with cancer.
     ·    My class regularly connected with the classes of @eolsonteacher,  and
          @toddvogts to share writing and construct collaborative, multimedia
          projects.
     ·    Fridays were often spent on Twitter. There, we discussed  "Leadership"
          with @mike_richman and his class;  Skyped with  to inspire reluctant
          poets by sharing his rhymes; critiqued @jasonmarkey's   blog
          responses; and got much-needed resources for multi-genre isearch
          papers from @gregkulowiec   and @shawnmccusker.


Larry Ferlazzo | Luther Burbank High School

The 2013 Test Yourself: English Language Learner series and the 2012 Ideas for
English Language Learners series

Alice Mercer  is a colleague who teaches in the same school district (Sacramento
City Unified School District) as I do, but at an elementary school.  When her
schedule allows it, she has come to my high school late in the day to observe a
class, write about it on her blog, and list questions about what she saw for my
students to answer online.  You can see examples here.

Students love to feel that what they are doing is important enough for another
adult to come observe, and that another teacher besides myself is interested in
hearing what they think.  I love hearing the perceptive feedback from a valued
colleague and, since I write about what happens on my own blog, lots of other
teachers gain from hearing about the experience, too.

It's on my "to do" list to invite teachers in my school to try out the same
process so we can observe each other's classes - not just to further our own
teaching skills, but to maximize the learning experiences and higher-order
thinking skills of all our students.

Kristin Gecan | Poetry Foundation

Poetry Pairings

Recently speech-language pathologist Jeanette W. Stickel brought the September
issue of Poetry into her classroom, and introduced poetry to five, six and
seven-year-olds,  with the help of Lemony Snicket.

Her students engaged with the poems that the famous children's author selected,
including a poem by Franz Wright, and made their own poems as a result. Ms.
Stickel blogged about it, and teachers posted comments. She, of course,
responded and continued the conversation. By sharing her own experience on her
blog, Ms. Stickel brought the joy of poetry not only to her own students, but to
a number of other classrooms as well. As a bonus, we got to see her students in
action through her photos, and read some of their wonderful poems, like this
one, in appreciation of Mr. Snicket:

Lemony Snicket
Got stuck in a thicket
He found a gray cricket
And decided to lick it.
Yuck!!!

Sarah Gross | High Technology High School

Common Core Practice series

I've been an avid user of Twitter since 2007, using the micro-blogging service
to connect with a P.L.N. outside of my school and district. However, I only
began using it in the classroom last year and I can't believe I didn't start
sooner.

My colleagues and I started experimenting with Twitter when our school was
closed for two weeks after Hurricane Sandy. We posted on our class Facebook
pages to check on the well-being of our students, and some students and alumni
began reaching out to us via Twitter.  While we were out of school for those two
weeks @michlampinen, @jonathanaolsen and I managed to organize a district-wide
Twitter chat on the night of the presidential election. Students, teachers,
parents, and alumni participated in the #eduelection chat  and it was a huge
success:

By the way, super impressed by the #MCVSDstorm students who are participating in
#EduElection via generator, 3G, wifi hotspots.  Dedication!

- Sarah Mulhern Gross (@thereadingzone) November 6, 2012

Vlad Gutkovich | Flocabulary

The Year in Rap Contest

I recently came across Lessoncast, a Web-based tool for creating, sharing and
evaluating highly streamlined and robust lesson plans. Using a seemingly
intuitive interface, teachers can create "Lessoncasts": 3 minute, interactive
explanations of the entire scope of an instructional unit, citing desired
outcomes, standards covered, materials used, time management and other
essentials of a well-constructed lesson. The platform is designed for use in
teacher preparation, coaching, professional development, and teacher evaluation
settings.

To me, Lessoncast serves as an excellent example of technology helping to build
capacity in that most critical piece of the puzzle: teachers.

Jennifer Hanson | Primary Source

Guest Post | Primary Sources Meet Free Web 2.0 Tools for Common Core Learning

This summer, educators in Primary Source's institutes and conference workshops
used Padlet to create digital walls or bulletin boards, sharing resources they
explored during workshops on global literature, immigration resources, and Web
2.0 tools for supporting Common Core skills. I had been looking for ways that
teachers could collaboratively create digital products during workshops -
something they could easily contribute to and reference during and after a
workshop. Padlet provides a free, easy-to-use tool that can be used for
brainstorming exercises, collaborative writing, and immediate reflection during
a classroom activity. Every time I introduced Padlet, there were gasps of
excitement from teachers.

Here is a Padlet that a group of secondary teachers created during an activity
in which they explored digital resources for teaching about immigration history.
Using this tool, they shared their insights and reflections as they explored
each Web site. This is a great way to connect during and after a
professional-learning experience, and is easily transferable to the classroom.

Patrick Honner | Brooklyn Technical High School

Learning Network math lesson plans and Math Test Yourself questions

I'm teaching Linear Algebra at my high school this year, and social media is to
blame.

Two mathematicians I'm connected to on Google+, Theron Hitchman and Vincent
Knight, regularly post engaging pieces about mathematics, teaching and
technology.  Theron's enthusiasm and insight and Vince's cool applications to
operations research rekindled my interest in Linear Algebra. So when discussing
what electives to offer our mathematics majors at Brooklyn Tech, I volunteered
to create a Linear Algebra course.

As usual, I'm in over my head, but Theron and Vince are there to help, sharing
their views on the big ideas in Linear Algebra, using technology to do cool
things with matrices and pointing me to resources like free e-books and
open-source mathematical software.  I probably wouldn't have taken on this
challenge without my connections to these mathematicians, but being connected to
them and others will help make it work for me and my students.

An animated gif of a random matrix, created by Vince Knight.

Rey Junco | Purdue University

Q. and A. | How Facebook Use Correlates With Student Outcomes

To me, connected learning is about the relationship between the educator and
her/his students. Technology, then, should help us strengthen that relationship
in order to best help students reach desired learning outcomes and developmental
goals.

Effective connected learning considers the affordances of the technological tool
as well as how that tool can be integrated in ways that are educationally
relevant and appropriate to the curriculum. My research shows that using social
media in the classroom can help students feel more comfortable sharing their
thoughts and connecting with their peers. In practice, connected learning
encourages students to communicate and collaborate with each other using
technology tools congruent with their digital lifestyles. For instance,
educators can encourage students to use a Facebook group to collaborate on a
science project: they can create a private group and encourage students to share
their progress through regular wall posts and to answer questions posed by
others in the class.

Elana Leoni | Edutopia

Summer Reading Contest Winner | The Trayvon Martin Case

I have the pleasure to be a part of "connected learning" every day. At Edutopia,
we see an increasing number of educators connecting, sharing and collaborating
on our site and via Twitter, Facebook, Pinterest, Google+ and more.

Three years ago, there wasn't a Connected Educator Month and educators that were
"connected" were questioned. It's not quite the norm yet,  but the term
"connected educator" is becoming more well known. I, along with many, many
passionate educators, are making it our mission to get as many connected as
possible. The ongoing support, inspiration and the wealth of knowledge that a
professional learning network provides are endless. Dip your toe in this month,
and reach out to any one of us for questions!

Diana Laufenberg | Science Leadership Academy

Teaching With Infographics | A Student Project Model

During the State of the Union address I asked my students to watch, take notes
and come to class prepared to have a discussion.  I then offered them a variety
of pathways to have a dynamic and connected conversation.  The ability for the
students to choose from a "walled garden" chatroom, an I.M. or a hashtagged
Twitter chat invited them to select a version of communication that suited them
best.  Additionally, being able to connect us all, while we all sat in our
living rooms, dramatically increased their understanding of the content, process
and function.

The fact that more than half the school is watching his speech and actually
understands what he's trying to do. >>> #SOTU#SLA

- Breee :3 (@_wickedluna7) January 25, 2012

This connected learning opportunity allowed them both voice and choice, two
great benefits of being in a technologically connected world.  By the time they
got to class the next day they were so up to speed, they could have gone up
against the pundits based on their depth of understanding.  It was impressive.

Shelly McAninch | Saint Jo High School

Reader Idea | 'Current Events Friday' Brings the World to a Texas Town

I confess I only joined Twitter this summer after attending a teacher workshop
at the New York Stock Exchange. Now I love being able to join in on an
educational Twitter "chat" with educators from around the world and also being
able to throw out a question and getting timely (sometime instant) responses. It
is especially beneficial since I am the only teacher in my district who teaches
business classes.

Here are some ideas for using Twitter in teaching about the stock market. You
might have students create accounts to:


     ·     Create conversation between a "Bull & Bear Market"
     ·    Reconstruct events, such as the Great Depression or a timeline of a
          stock market exchange
     ·    Follow a specific stock and "tweet" about it each day.


Mark Moran | FindingDulcinea

Historic Headlines

This year I've also gotten involved with Angela Maiers'sChoose2Mattercampaign.
In April, Gen. John Michel of the U.S. Air Force sent a Twitter message to Ms.
Maiers to say he was developing a similar concept. His team has since joined
with ours. A few weeks ago, we introduced Choose2Matter to Bettendorf Middle
School in Iowa.

As the eighth graders were summoning the courage to declare publicly, via a live
stream, their plans to change the world, Ms. Maiers decided to bring in an
outside expert who knows something about bravery. Using the video conference
tool Zoom, Gen. Michel, in his full camouflage uniform, spoke reassuringly to
the students from a bunker in Afghanistan, 8,000 miles away. The students
cheered thunderously, and then, one by one, bravely marched up on stage.

Pam Moran | Albemarle County Public Schools

Teaching 9/11 | Why? How?

As #ACPS superintendent, I asked a few teachers to share what makes
connectedness worthwhile:

@mkarpovich, chemistry teacher, began to flip her class last year. She says,
"Get on Twitter, NOW!  Find, follow and communicate with like-minded
professionals.  Use it to build your own Professional Learning Network.  Stop
thinking that collaboration can only occur within the confines of your
building!"

Teacher @bkayser11 routinely live-streams kids sharing stories, poetry or music
and looks for collaborators:

Any 1:1 schools looking for blogging partners for next year? #1to1techat

- Brian Kayser (@bkayser11) June 27, 2013

He comments, "Encourage risk-taking. It's too easy to not try something because
of perceived pressures. And never underestimate the value of kids learning from
each other. They get tired of hearing from their teacher all the time, but when
they read comments on their work from their peers, whether in their class or at
other schools halfway around the world, their eyes light up and they realize
they have a real platform and an authentic audience. When kids realize they have
an authentic audience, they want their work to be the best reflection of
themselves, and you see the effort and pride in their work increase naturally
because of this."

Paul Oh | National Writing Project

The National Day on Writing

I participated in and helped design a MOOC this summer called "Making Learning
Connected," sponsored by my organization, the National Writing Project.

More than a thousand educators signed up to participate, and among them was Sara
Green, from the U.K. At one point, she created her life's learning journey as a
London Tube map. One of the MOOC faciliators, Chad Sansing, an amazing educator
in his own right, then took that idea and created a Thimble template so anyone
with a computer and Internet connection could create their own learning pathway
London Tube map. (Thimble is a free tool developed by the Mozilla Foundation
that allows you to create remixable open content for the Web while learning
about the building blocks of the Web itself.)

Chad's template, called Tube Map Me, is freely available to use. In fact, a
number of people have already remixed Chad's project to create their own
learning pathway London Tube maps. Consider making your own map and connecting
with Chad and Sara and the CLMOOC and Mozilla Webmaker communities.

Jonathan Olsen | Randolph High School

Common Core Practice series

At Randolph High School, we've taken a literal approach to connected learning.
Our new learning lab reimagines what the traditional classroom looks like and
how it functions. Gone are seats in columns and rows. Now, cluster seating with
device connectivity allowing for easy information transfer from individuals and
groups is in. The inspiration for the project according to Randolph principal
Debbie Iosso was to "design a space that would allow for 21st century
collaboration by giving valuable classroom real estate back to the students."

Students can interact on the media-scape tables with laptops, tablets and
smartphones while allowing the instructor to facilitate digital collaboration.
Teachers are able to quickly transition from small-group to large-group
instruction. Student work can be displayed instantly throughout the room by the
touch of a button as the teacher guides the lesson. Our learning lab brings
students together; the connectivity can make our classroom walls disappear.

Kaari Pitkin | Radio Rookies

How 'Real' Is Your Classroom? Bringing Students' Lives and Voices Into School

Here at Radio Rookies we've been experimenting with live chats as a way to
connect young people, locally in New York City across the boroughs, as well as
nationally, to discuss topics like sexual cyber-bullying, the state of education
in N.Y.C. and gun control.

We're particularly excited about an upcoming event to bring young people
together online from areas that that are hot spots for prescription drug abuse
(Kentucky, Staten Island, Maine) to share media they've created (audio, visual
and Web remix) on the issue and to discuss about how it's hurting their
communities and possible solutions. We've heard from teachers that students are
energized by the chance to have a voice and engaged conversation with young
people outside their own community.

Nicholas Provenzano | Grosse Pointe South High School

Three Teachers' Answers to Questions on Classroom Microblogging

I wanted to find a way to make Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet come alive in my
class and I had this idea to have my students create an updated version to enact
in class. The idea was exciting, but I wanted to take it to another level. Using
my connections on Twitter, I met Shawn Hyer (@shawnhyervm) from Van Meter, Iowa.
We introduced the idea of doing a Epic Romeo and Juliet Project to the students,
and they were excited. When both schools had completed their work, their scenes
were filmed and put together for a joint world premiere that you can watch here.

This is the best lesson I have ever done, and students still talk about it as
one of the favorite things they have done at school. None of it would have been
possible without connecting with other educators on Twitter.

Meenoo Rami | Science Leadership Academy

Teachers Teaching Teachers on Twitter: Q. and A. on 'Edchats'

Looking for fresh ideas to help you build a community of readers in your
classroom?

Tired of the same old approach to teaching vocabulary words?

Have you ever asked your students to do a multi-genre research project? Want to?

To find answers to any of the questions above, consider joining#engchat,  a
network of English teachers connecting with one another via Twitter to share
ideas, resources, and inspiration.  Weekly Twitter conversation happens every
Monday at 7 p.m. Eastern.  To join, search for the hashtag #engchat on Twitter
or use a site such as TweetChat to help you follow the discussion. Each week, a
guest moderator shares a new idea, perspective or vision about what it means to
be an English teacher.

Kinesthetic Vocabulary learning activity planned by amazing student assistant
#engchatpic.twitter.com/RstGXlEMrj

- Meenoo Rami (@meenoorami) September 19, 2013

I started #engchat in 2010 because I wanted to connect with dynamic educators
from around the world. More than a conversation, #engchat, is a community where
English teachers are sharing the incredible work they are doing with their
students.

Carolyn Ross | Hightstown High School

Reader Idea: Personal Inquiry Projects With The Learning Network

This is tried and true, but I have to tout thesix-word memoir project from Smith
Magazine. Writing these tiny memoirs never fails to be a favorite lesson of the
year.  Students are excited by the wide audience for their writing, and
challenged by the task. They post their memoirs on Twitter with with the hashtag
#sixwords in addition to posting them on smithmag.net.

The lesson extends beyond the classroom: students post memoirs to Twitter for
days and weeks after, as they continue to kick ideas around and attempt to
define themselves, their lives and their stories, all in six words.  And for all
the digital sharing, the kids are equally pumped to write their memoir on the
whiteboard in colorful markers.

The activity is a great way to kick off narrative or personal writing, and
emphasizes the power of being concise.

Leslie Ryan | Leslie Street Language School

Reader Idea: English Language Learners Discuss Love and Happiness

I operate a small business in Prague, Czech Republic and allow my adult learners
of English as a foreign language to attend when they prefer. I use an online
reservation system that was tailor-made to allow students to register any time,
so most every class is a different combination of people.

The students may not realize it. but part of the rationale is to prepare them to
be comfortable in unfamiliar situations, such as working with people they
haven't met before. The atmosphere is friendly and the open-ended discussions
ensure that students initiate and respond appropriately, link contributions,
develop interactions and negotiate toward an outcome. But without the online
reservation system, this classroom would not exist.

Georgia Scurletis | Visual Thesaurus and Vocabulary.com

Word of the Day andSummer Reading Contest Winner | Transgender Rights

I'm always surprised when I see a sense of community crop up in the comments
section of a Vocabulary.com word list. The word lists are public, so learners
from different parts of the globe and from different perspectives may access the
same list. Users may comment about how they intend to use the list or about the
text from which the list was made.

If you look at the comments on this "Figurative Language in King's 'I Have a
Dream' Speech," you'll see commenters from Pakistan to Maine chiming in. Ashish
(from California) compares the injustice of the civil rights era with the caste
system in India, and then Don K. (from Maryland) praises Ashish's comments as
"King-worthy." And then a teacher (Adeline S.) comments about how she uses the
speech to teach rhetoric to her high school seniors.

It's amazing to me how a simple list of words can inspire so many ideas.

Jinnie Spiegler | TeachableMoment.org

Guest Post | 10 Ways to Talk to Students About Sensitive Issues in the News

In 1983, Morningside Center for Teaching Social Responsibility (then Educators
for Social Responsibility) developed teaching materials on nuclear war, timed to
coincide with a major TV movie called "The Day After."  In the absence of the
Internet, we raced to mail them out to everyone, hoping they'd arrive in time
for the program. Fast forward to Sept. 11, 2001: teachers desperately needed
teaching materials on the tragedy. This time, there was an Internet! We launched
TeachableMoment to provide resources in real time.

Each year since then,TeachableMoment has provided hundreds of thousands of
teachers with free lesson plans and ideas on issues ranging from gay marriage to
the situation in Syria, as well as activities to build students' social and
emotional skills. The Web has enabled us to gather an online learning community
of educators who want to take advantage of teachable moments in the news and in
life, and to share their ideas and insight with others.

| The UnCollege Gap Year Program

How Students Can Take Charge of Their Education

The UnCollege Gap Year program started recently, and I've been amazed to see the
extent to which the incoming class of fellows have become friends thanks to the
power of Facebook. They are using the Facebook groups to plan meals, excursions,
and more. They are giving each other feedback on their portfolio sites and
asking for advice on how to talk to their parents about the program.

It's refreshing to see a student do the work because they care, not because it
is prescribed. It gives me hope that the Gap Year program is going to be a
life-changing experience for these young students.

Rita Tamalavage | Nativity B.V.M. High School

Reader Idea | Evaluating Arguments and Checking Sources

Using a Facebook classroom page connects students with others interested in
their progress besides their teacher.

Lisa Doyle Giacomelli, a former English student of mine now teaching at
Wilmington, N.C. Academy of Arts and Sciences, says that using Facebook not only
helps students learn, but gives parents, grandparents and administrators a
window into her science classes.

She posts photos of experiments and field trips plus good writing guidelines to
initiate reflection on their (500 word minimum) weekly blogging assignments of
reacting, and applying original thinking to class activities. The blogs
eventually become a portfolio filled with details and URLs for student review
and give her feedback on the lessons she presented.
She also uses a class hashtag for a daily Twitter question. Lisa credits the
inspiration for her successful connected teaching to an educators' network of
teaching tips  developed by the Michigan Teacher of the Year, Gary Abud .

Shelly Terrell | Teacher Reboot Camp

Teachers Teaching Teachers on Twitter: Q. and A. on 'Edchats'

In January 2010, I decided to complete 30 educational goals to keep myself
inspired. They were short goals, meant to be accomplished in a day, ranging from
sending parents nice messages about their children to thanking a teacher. Then,
I invited other teachers to join me. Now, in year 4, over 9,000 have.

We are an online community of educators, and the goals are voted upon. We
reflect in our blogs and see how they help us aim towards long-term goals to
make us better educators. You have the opportunity to join our community of
educators throughout 2013. You don't have to accomplish 30, just one! We support
each other through various social networks - including our Facebook group,
YouTube,Twitter,Livebinders and blogs.

Grace White | Eisenhower Middle School

Open Note to Student Commenters and Your Teachers: Thank You!

It's happening in Wyckoff Schools in New Jersey. Teachers are tinkering with
Twitter as a learning tool within and across classrooms. Students engage as they
extend their learning environments past the classroom walls. Small steps; large
possibilities. Join this fifth grade, @5CordelloCrew, as they begin to connect
and collaborate along with some of our educators, @stephenraimo, @fullerchrism,
and @patjlee as they share and inspire others to experiment.

My own learning network deepens as I connect in literacy tweet chats with @TCRWP
(Teachers College Reading and Writing Project), or gain tremendous insights into
my teaching practice when I visit Vicki Vinton's To Make a Prairie blog.

Esther Wojcicki | Palo Alto High School

Student Journalism | Three Benefits of Newspaper Programs

What most classrooms today lack is student engagement. T.R.I.C.K - trust,
respect, independence, collaboration and kindness.  Here is a video that
explains it.

Using tech is one of the ways to increase engagement. Technology provides
students with the opportunity to learn independently and share. It connects
students to other students and gives them an opportunity to be creative and work
collaboratively. One of the most effective ways to use technology and T.R.I.C.K.
is through scholastic journalism. All students nationwide should be taught
journalistic skills in their English classes. They would learn to gather
information, to write, to think and to use tech. Here is a video students
created to demonstrate the importance of student collaboration.

How would you answer our question? Please post, below - and don't forget our
Oct. 21 Twitter chat on how you #Write2Connect.

What might "connected teaching" or "connected learning"  - that is, using
technology to build communities and share knowledge - look like in practice?

Describe one recent example, small or large, from your own classroom or
organization, or from work you have heard or read about, and tell us why you
chose it.


     ·    For 'Connected Educator Month,' Tips From 33 Educators We Admire


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            October 1, 2013 Tuesday

Morning Agenda: Wariness as Government Shuts Down

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1759 words



HIGHLIGHT: Investors cautiously pulled back as political moves failed to end a
federal budget standoff. | The head of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission&#8217;s enforcement unit is poised to step down. | A study raises
doubts about the value of consultants to pensions. | With the second anniversary
of Occupy comes a prepaid debit card.


Investors cautiously pulled back from the markets as a flurry of political moves
in Washington on Monday evening failed to end a budget standoff, setting up the
first government shutdown in nearly two decades, The New York Times reports.
Stock markets around the world fell on Monday, though the declines were
relatively modest in the United States while negotiations in Congress remained
stalled, Nathaniel Popper writes in DealBook. Markets in Europe were higher on
Tuesday, while stock index futures in the United States pointed to a higher
opening Tuesday morning in New York.

Many on Wall Street think the direct effect of a shutdown will be relatively
minimal from the stock market's perspective. About 800,000 federal workers are
to be furloughed and more than a million others will be asked to work without
pay, as roughly two-thirds of the government - the so-called essential functions
- will continue operating. But some economists have said the shutdown would most
likely have a broader effect on market psychology if it lasted for more than a
few days, Mr. Popper writes.

"You have an economy that has already shown some hesitation," said Diane Swonk,
the chief economist at Mesirow Financial. "That's the last thing we need right
now."

President Obama is scheduled to meet on Wednesday with members of the Financial
Services Forum, including the chiefs of banks like JPMorgan Chase and Goldman
Sachs, who are in Washington for an annual meeting. The group is expected to
discuss a range of financial issues.

FINANCIAL WATCHDOG TO DEPART AGENCY  |  David Meister, who is waging legal
battles against some of the biggest names in finance, is poised to step down
from his role as head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's enforcement
unit, a move that may put the future of those cases in question, DealBook's Ben
Protess reports. The commission announced his departure early on Tuesday,
capping Mr. Meister's effort to embolden an agency once dismissed as "the
watchdog that didn't bark."

"Over a nearly three-year stretch, Mr. Meister helped write new rules to expand
the enforcement unit's authority, overhauled the unit's management ranks and
filed a record number of actions against the financial industry. An
investigation into the banking industry's manipulation of benchmark interest
rates - a crackdown on banks like UBS and Barclays - defined his tenure," Mr.
Protess writes. Still, his exit - and the exit of Gary Gensler, the agency's
chairman, whose term expires in December - comes at an awkward time.

One of the most prominent cases is an investigation into whether JPMorgan Chase
traders in London built a position so big that they manipulated the market for
financial contracts known as derivatives. That comes as the Justice Department
and other regulators are trying to negotiate a settlement with JPMorgan over
allegations of mortgage abuses - a case that, to many on Wall Street, seems
unfair, DealBook's Peter Eavis writes. "But JPMorgan may not be the martyr some
think it is."

In the Justice Department's effort over mortgages, a person inside the bank is
providing valuable assistance to the government, according to The Wall Street
Journal, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. "The cooperating
person has provided information - including e-mails - suggesting the bank vastly
overstated the quality of mortgages that were being bundled into securities and
sold to investors before the financial crisis, the people said."

DOUBTS RAISED ON THE VALUE OF CONSULTANTS TO PENSIONS  | "At a time when
individual investors are increasingly demanding transparency in performance
track records, the biggest slice of the investment world - pension funds - has
conspicuously turned a blind eye to demanding track records from their most
influential advisers, investment consultants," Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in the
DealBook column. "A new study by professors at the University of Oxford is
causing a stir in the staid pension investment industry, highlighting the subpar
performance of most consultants and, more important, the lack of disclosure that
would allow the public to even know about it."

ON THE AGENDA  |  It is the first day of a government shutdown. Walgreen is
scheduled to report earnings before the market opens. Empire State Realty Trust,
owner of the Empire State Building, is expected to price its I.P.O. on Tuesday
evening. Pierre Cailleteau, managing director for sovereign ratings at Moody's,
is on Bloomberg TV at 11:15 a.m.

AN OCCUPY WALL STREET DEBIT CARD  | To commemorate the second anniversary of the
Occupy Wall Street movement in September, a surprising undertaking began with
little fanfare: creating a prepaid Occupy debit card, Colin Moynihan reports in
The New York Times. "The idea, led by a group that includes a Cornell law
professor, a former director of Deutsche Bank and a former British diplomat, is
meant to serve people who do not have bank accounts, but it also aims to make
Occupy a recognized financial services brand."

 |  Contact: @williamalden | E-mail

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

Mergers & Acquisitions »

Mergers Holding Steady  |  For the first nine months of the year, Goldman Sachs
claimed the top spot among financial advisers, having worked on 285 deals
worldwide worth nearly $517 billion. DealBook »

Cooper Tire Shareholders Approve Sale to Indian Tire Maker  |  The shareholder
approval was a big step forward for the $2.5 billion sale of Cooper Tire and
Rubber to Apollo Tyres of India, but the deal still faces hurdles. REUTERS

How the Deal for Rue21 Could Fall Apart  |  A report of weak sales by the
retailer rue21 has spooked potential investors in a private equity deal to buy
the company. The question now is whether the three banks on the deal want to
risk their reputations by trying to kill it, Steven M. Davidoff writes in the
Deal Professor column. DealBook »

Frontier Airlines to Be Acquired by Investment Firm  |  "The man who turned
Spirit Airlines Inc. into one of the industry's stingiest but most profitable
carriers agreed in principle to buy Denver-based Frontier Airlines, a
transaction that likely signals the expansion of the ultralow-cost sector of the
U.S. airline industry, according to a person familiar with the deal," The Wall
Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL

Nielsen Completes Acquisition of Arbitron  |  Nielsen Holdings said on Monday
that its $1.26 billion acquisition of the radio ratings company Arbitron would
allow it to monitor eight hours a day of the public's media consumption across
television, radio and a range of electronic devices. NEW YORK TIMES

INVESTMENT BANKING »

Former Trader Looks at the Changes in Goldman  |  "What Happened to Goldman
Sachs" examines the bank's evolution from an elite private partnership to a vast
public corporation - and the effects of that transformation on its culture.
DealBook »

Berkshire Hathaway to Receive $2 Billion of Goldman Stock  |  Berkshire is
getting Goldman Sachs stock worth nearly $2.15 billion through warrants it
acquired as part of a deal in 2008, Reuters reports. REUTERS

Barclays Names Top Aerospace Banker  |  Barclays has announced that Jay Caldwell
will join the bank as global head of its aerospace and defense team. DealBook »

Freddie Mac Names Ally Executive as Finance Chief  |  Freddie Mac said on Monday
it had chosen James Mackey, a top executive at Ally Financial, to be its chief
financial officer, succeeding Ross Kari. REUTERS

Mutual Fund Billionaire Gives $250 Million to Yale  |  Charles B. Johnson, the
retired chairman of the money management company Franklin Resources, has pledged
$250 million to Yale. DealBook »

Bank Fees Rise for 15th Straight Year  |
USA TODAY

PRIVATE EQUITY »

Apollo's Energy I.P.O. Gives New Life to Quick Flips  |  Apollo Global
Management is showing that private equity can still dig into its old bag of
tricks, Christopher Swann of Reuters Breakingviews writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS

Active Network in $1.05 Billion Buyout  |  Active Network, which provides online
tools and data management for events, has agreed to be acquired by the private
equity firm Vista Equity Partners in a deal valued at $1.05 billion. DealBook »

HEDGE FUNDS »

Perry Capital Cuts Stake in J.C. Penney  |  The hedge fund began to cut its
stake on Friday, coinciding with J.C. Penney's disclosure of a planned sale of
as much as 96.6 million new common shares. DealBook »

I.P.O./OFFERINGS »

Container Store Aims to Raise $200 Million in I.P.O.  |  The Container Store
Group, a 35-year-old retail chain based in Texas, filed for an initial public
offering, saying it planned to use the proceeds to pay a dividend to holders of
its senior preferred stock and to repay debt. REUTERS

VENTURE CAPITAL »

Cybersecurity Firm Cigital Raises $50 Million  |  Cigital, which helps
enterprise customers maintain software applications to protect against cyber
threats, announced on Tuesday that it raised $50 million from LLR Partners, to
support its expansion and growth. CIGITAL

Payments Start-Up Leaf Raises $20 Million  |  Leaf, a competitor to Square and
other payments companies, attracted $20 million from Heartland Payment Systems,
a big payments processing company, AllThingsD reports. ALLTHINGSD

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

Despite Cries of Unfair Treatment, JPMorgan Is No Victim  |  Some banking
experts say they believe the government is picking on JPMorgan Chase, but the
bank may not be the martyr some think it is. News Analysis »

No Limit on Strikes for JPMorgan Chase  |  Simply paying money to get rid of
investigations raises questions about whether JPMorgan Chase should be viewed as
a recidivist, and if so how the law should treat the bank, Peter J. Henning
writes in the White Collar Watch column. DealBook »

Wells Fargo Settles With Freddie Mac Over Loans  |  Wells Fargo agreed to pay
$780 million in cash to Freddie Mac to resolve repurchase liabilities on home
loans sold to the mortgage finance giant before 2009, Reuters reports. REUTERS

For Sweden's Banks, Fast Growth Isn't Seen as the Goal  |  "The dream scenario
would be that the economy grows a little bit faster than the bank sector," Peter
Norman, Sweden's financial markets minister, told Bloomberg News. BLOOMBERG NEWS

Former Morgan Stanley Broker Pleads Guilty in Insider Case  |  A former
financial adviser with Morgan Stanley admitted to tipping off a childhood friend
to Gilead Sciences' plan in 2011 to buy Pharmasset, before the takeover was
announced. REUTERS

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            October 1, 2013 Tuesday

Wariness as Government Shuts Down

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1759 words



HIGHLIGHT: Investors cautiously pulled back as political moves failed to end a
federal budget standoff. | The head of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission&#8217;s enforcement unit is poised to step down. | A study raises
doubts about the value of consultants to pensions. | With the second anniversary
of Occupy comes a prepaid debit card.


Investors cautiously pulled back from the markets as a flurry of political moves
in Washington on Monday evening failed to end a budget standoff, setting up the
first government shutdown in nearly two decades, The New York Times reports.
Stock markets around the world fell on Monday, though the declines were
relatively modest in the United States while negotiations in Congress remained
stalled, Nathaniel Popper writes in DealBook. Markets in Europe were higher on
Tuesday, while stock index futures in the United States pointed to a higher
opening Tuesday morning in New York.

Many on Wall Street think the direct effect of a shutdown will be relatively
minimal from the stock market's perspective. About 800,000 federal workers are
to be furloughed and more than a million others will be asked to work without
pay, as roughly two-thirds of the government - the so-called essential functions
- will continue operating. But some economists have said the shutdown would most
likely have a broader effect on market psychology if it lasted for more than a
few days, Mr. Popper writes.

"You have an economy that has already shown some hesitation," said Diane Swonk,
the chief economist at Mesirow Financial. "That's the last thing we need right
now."

President Obama is scheduled to meet on Wednesday with members of the Financial
Services Forum, including the chiefs of banks like JPMorgan Chase and Goldman
Sachs, who are in Washington for an annual meeting. The group is expected to
discuss a range of financial issues.

FINANCIAL WATCHDOG TO DEPART AGENCY  |  David Meister, who is waging legal
battles against some of the biggest names in finance, is poised to step down
from his role as head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's enforcement
unit, a move that may put the future of those cases in question, DealBook's Ben
Protess reports. The commission announced his departure early on Tuesday,
capping Mr. Meister's effort to embolden an agency once dismissed as "the
watchdog that didn't bark."

"Over a nearly three-year stretch, Mr. Meister helped write new rules to expand
the enforcement unit's authority, overhauled the unit's management ranks and
filed a record number of actions against the financial industry. An
investigation into the banking industry's manipulation of benchmark interest
rates - a crackdown on banks like UBS and Barclays - defined his tenure," Mr.
Protess writes. Still, his exit - and the exit of Gary Gensler, the agency's
chairman, whose term expires in December - comes at an awkward time.

One of the most prominent cases is an investigation into whether JPMorgan Chase
traders in London built a position so big that they manipulated the market for
financial contracts known as derivatives. That comes as the Justice Department
and other regulators are trying to negotiate a settlement with JPMorgan over
allegations of mortgage abuses - a case that, to many on Wall Street, seems
unfair, DealBook's Peter Eavis writes. "But JPMorgan may not be the martyr some
think it is."

In the Justice Department's effort over mortgages, a person inside the bank is
providing valuable assistance to the government, according to The Wall Street
Journal, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. "The cooperating
person has provided information - including e-mails - suggesting the bank vastly
overstated the quality of mortgages that were being bundled into securities and
sold to investors before the financial crisis, the people said."

DOUBTS RAISED ON THE VALUE OF CONSULTANTS TO PENSIONS  | "At a time when
individual investors are increasingly demanding transparency in performance
track records, the biggest slice of the investment world - pension funds - has
conspicuously turned a blind eye to demanding track records from their most
influential advisers, investment consultants," Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in the
DealBook column. "A new study by professors at the University of Oxford is
causing a stir in the staid pension investment industry, highlighting the subpar
performance of most consultants and, more important, the lack of disclosure that
would allow the public to even know about it."

ON THE AGENDA  |  It is the first day of a government shutdown. Walgreen is
scheduled to report earnings before the market opens. Empire State Realty Trust,
owner of the Empire State Building, is expected to price its I.P.O. on Tuesday
evening. Pierre Cailleteau, managing director for sovereign ratings at Moody's,
is on Bloomberg TV at 11:15 a.m.

AN OCCUPY WALL STREET DEBIT CARD  | To commemorate the second anniversary of the
Occupy Wall Street movement in September, a surprising undertaking began with
little fanfare: creating a prepaid Occupy debit card, Colin Moynihan reports in
The New York Times. "The idea, led by a group that includes a Cornell law
professor, a former director of Deutsche Bank and a former British diplomat, is
meant to serve people who do not have bank accounts, but it also aims to make
Occupy a recognized financial services brand."

 |  Contact: @williamalden | E-mail

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

Mergers & Acquisitions »

Mergers Holding Steady  |  For the first nine months of the year, Goldman Sachs
claimed the top spot among financial advisers, having worked on 285 deals
worldwide worth nearly $517 billion. DealBook »

Cooper Tire Shareholders Approve Sale to Indian Tire Maker  |  The shareholder
approval was a big step forward for the $2.5 billion sale of Cooper Tire and
Rubber to Apollo Tyres of India, but the deal still faces hurdles. REUTERS

How the Deal for Rue21 Could Fall Apart  |  A report of weak sales by the
retailer rue21 has spooked potential investors in a private equity deal to buy
the company. The question now is whether the three banks on the deal want to
risk their reputations by trying to kill it, Steven M. Davidoff writes in the
Deal Professor column. DealBook »

Frontier Airlines to Be Acquired by Investment Firm  |  "The man who turned
Spirit Airlines Inc. into one of the industry's stingiest but most profitable
carriers agreed in principle to buy Denver-based Frontier Airlines, a
transaction that likely signals the expansion of the ultralow-cost sector of the
U.S. airline industry, according to a person familiar with the deal," The Wall
Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL

Nielsen Completes Acquisition of Arbitron  |  Nielsen Holdings said on Monday
that its $1.26 billion acquisition of the radio ratings company Arbitron would
allow it to monitor eight hours a day of the public's media consumption across
television, radio and a range of electronic devices. NEW YORK TIMES

INVESTMENT BANKING »

Former Trader Looks at the Changes in Goldman  |  "What Happened to Goldman
Sachs" examines the bank's evolution from an elite private partnership to a vast
public corporation - and the effects of that transformation on its culture.
DealBook »

Berkshire Hathaway to Receive $2 Billion of Goldman Stock  |  Berkshire is
getting Goldman Sachs stock worth nearly $2.15 billion through warrants it
acquired as part of a deal in 2008, Reuters reports. REUTERS

Barclays Names Top Aerospace Banker  |  Barclays has announced that Jay Caldwell
will join the bank as global head of its aerospace and defense team. DealBook »

Freddie Mac Names Ally Executive as Finance Chief  |  Freddie Mac said on Monday
it had chosen James Mackey, a top executive at Ally Financial, to be its chief
financial officer, succeeding Ross Kari. REUTERS

Mutual Fund Billionaire Gives $250 Million to Yale  |  Charles B. Johnson, the
retired chairman of the money management company Franklin Resources, has pledged
$250 million to Yale. DealBook »

Bank Fees Rise for 15th Straight Year  |
USA TODAY

PRIVATE EQUITY »

Apollo's Energy I.P.O. Gives New Life to Quick Flips  |  Apollo Global
Management is showing that private equity can still dig into its old bag of
tricks, Christopher Swann of Reuters Breakingviews writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS

Active Network in $1.05 Billion Buyout  |  Active Network, which provides online
tools and data management for events, has agreed to be acquired by the private
equity firm Vista Equity Partners in a deal valued at $1.05 billion. DealBook »

HEDGE FUNDS »

Perry Capital Cuts Stake in J.C. Penney  |  The hedge fund began to cut its
stake on Friday, coinciding with J.C. Penney's disclosure of a planned sale of
as much as 96.6 million new common shares. DealBook »

I.P.O./OFFERINGS »

Container Store Aims to Raise $200 Million in I.P.O.  |  The Container Store
Group, a 35-year-old retail chain based in Texas, filed for an initial public
offering, saying it planned to use the proceeds to pay a dividend to holders of
its senior preferred stock and to repay debt. REUTERS

VENTURE CAPITAL »

Cybersecurity Firm Cigital Raises $50 Million  |  Cigital, which helps
enterprise customers maintain software applications to protect against cyber
threats, announced on Tuesday that it raised $50 million from LLR Partners, to
support its expansion and growth. CIGITAL

Payments Start-Up Leaf Raises $20 Million  |  Leaf, a competitor to Square and
other payments companies, attracted $20 million from Heartland Payment Systems,
a big payments processing company, AllThingsD reports. ALLTHINGSD

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

Despite Cries of Unfair Treatment, JPMorgan Is No Victim  |  Some banking
experts say they believe the government is picking on JPMorgan Chase, but the
bank may not be the martyr some think it is. News Analysis »

No Limit on Strikes for JPMorgan Chase  |  Simply paying money to get rid of
investigations raises questions about whether JPMorgan Chase should be viewed as
a recidivist, and if so how the law should treat the bank, Peter J. Henning
writes in the White Collar Watch column. DealBook »

Wells Fargo Settles With Freddie Mac Over Loans  |  Wells Fargo agreed to pay
$780 million in cash to Freddie Mac to resolve repurchase liabilities on home
loans sold to the mortgage finance giant before 2009, Reuters reports. REUTERS

For Sweden's Banks, Fast Growth Isn't Seen as the Goal  |  "The dream scenario
would be that the economy grows a little bit faster than the bank sector," Peter
Norman, Sweden's financial markets minister, told Bloomberg News. BLOOMBERG NEWS

Former Morgan Stanley Broker Pleads Guilty in Insider Case  |  A former
financial adviser with Morgan Stanley admitted to tipping off a childhood friend
to Gilead Sciences' plan in 2011 to buy Pharmasset, before the takeover was
announced. REUTERS

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 6, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Syrian Refugees Develop Roots, Jordan Grows Wary

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1697 words


MAFRAQ, Jordan -- For Jordan, a small desert nation that is one of the world's
driest, the recent home improvement trends at its biggest camp for Syrian
refugees may prove particularly unsettling.

''This helps us forget the war,'' said Dalal al-Mansour, 35, smiling at her
children who were splashing around inside the four-level family fountain one
recent afternoon.

With no end to the 30-month-old war back home, some Syrian refugees are
seemingly settling in for the long haul by recreating fixtures of their past
domestic lives: paved courtyards with decorative water fountains. One man even
built a swimming pool in his courtyard.

That growing look of permanence is deeply unsettling to Jordan, which over the
decades has weathered large-scale migrations of refugees, among them Iraqis and
Palestinians, as well as the accompanying, existential threats to its fragile
demographic balance.

The latest arrivals, nearly 600,000 Syrians, have weighed heavily even as
Jordan's importance to the United States as an Arab ally in the Middle East has
increased with Egypt's instability. They are among the roughly two million
Syrians who have fled their country, most of them this year, and registered as
refugees in Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. Hundreds of thousands more
are believed to be living in the region illegally.

Like previous generations of refugees, the Syrians are quickly developing ties
to their surrounding areas, increasing fears that they will stay and that their
huge numbers will cause a sudden, and potentially destabilizing, redrawing of
the demographic map.

Their presence presents a particular challenge to Jordan's Hashemite monarchy,
which was installed by the British to rule this new country after the breakup of
the Ottoman Empire in World War I.

Like his predecessors, King Abdullah II depends on the support of the land's
original inhabitants, Bedouin tribes known as the East Bankers. Pampered
politically, the East Bankers have been losing their influence to the
Palestinian-Jordanians who came to Jordan as refugees in 1948 and 1967, and risk
further losses if the Syrians stay. Tens of thousands of Iraqi refugees who came
to Jordan in the past decade have also stayed.

In a country of only six million, the long-term presence of 600,000 Syrians --
the Jordanian government says there are actually hundreds of thousands more --
could further decrease the percentage of East Bankers. ''If the Syrians stay, we
will be destroyed,'' said Raad al-Nisah, 30, who owns a small coffee stand in
Marka, a neighborhood in Amman, the capital. ''We will become minorities and
guests in our own nation.''

Mr. Nisah said he grew up in Marka, where his parents still live. But he was
unable to find an apartment there when he got married last year and was forced
to move farther away. As in many other areas with a lot of Syrian refugees,
rents have doubled.

Ibrahim Saif, the minister of planning and international cooperation, said the
presence of the Syrians in Jordan was tantamount to ''the United States
absorbing the entire population of Canada.'' Jordan has said the cost of hosting
the refugees is $1 billion a year.

Mr. Saif said that the ''backlash, animosity and all kind of negative feelings
emerging'' toward the Syrian refugees was a source of worry for the government.
While providing assistance, he said, it was necessary to ensure that the refugee
population remained a ''temporary phenomenon.''

''You try to restrict their access to the labor market,'' he said. ''You try to
restrict their access to areas that could enhance sustainability. You provide
the minimum education, health and food, but not anything further. You don't want
to enhance their engagement with the rest of the society.''

He added: ''It's a very delicate balance. But you also want them to be isolated
while they're in your premises, in your country, and this is what we're trying
to do.''

Trying, but with great difficulty -- particularly in Mafraq, the center of the
refugee crisis. The Zaatari camp is about 10 miles east of here, but the
distance shrinks by the day as the ties between the city and the camp increase.
With the Syrians' arrival since the start of the war, the population of this
town has doubled to 250,000. ''The situation is reaching a breaking point,''
said Abdullah al-Khattab, the governor of Mafraq Province, which includes the
city and the camp.

Inside his office, he rattled off the most common complaints: Municipalities are
overwhelmed, with streets littered and sewers clogged. Rents have doubled, but
so have the prices for residential garbage pickups and water delivery.

With the population increase, business was booming in Mafraq's commercial area,
but low-skilled Jordanians were losing their jobs to Syrians, ''who have a
reputation for being good and talented workers, and are willing to work for
less,'' Mr. Khattab said. Registered Syrian refugees also receive monthly cash
allowances and food coupons from the United Nations, a source of envy for poor
Jordanians.

At the Rabee Bint al-Maouth elementary and middle school here, about 1,000
Syrian children were enrolled in a new afternoon shift. Many had missed years of
schooling because of the war. Many were traumatized. When a military exercise
was held recently at a base near here, children thought that a war had started.

The boys act up and are violent, said Samiha Hijleh, the principal. They have
broken classroom chairs, torn down the few trees in the schoolyard and smashed
water pipes.

''We don't know what to do,'' Ms. Hijleh said in the schoolyard, where the
additional trash produced by the new students was being burned inside three
large bins. The school could not afford the extra garbage pickup.

Like the other Palestinian camps in Jordan, the Schneller camp in Amman has long
melded with the area surrounding it. Moussa Youssef, 42, who grew up there after
his parents arrived in 1967, said that, in his lifetime, tents gave way to
shacks made of wood and corrugated zinc, then to sturdier homes of concrete and
stone, and finally now to the sometimes four-story structures occupied by
several generations.

No one is suggesting that the Syrians will stay permanently in Jordan. But signs
that their stay could become an extended one, most clearly visible inside the
United Nations' 14-month-old Zaatari camp, strike a deep chord in Jordan.

On the main commercial strip, nicknamed the Champs-Élysées, the original tent
shops have been replaced by stores made of corrugated zinc and concrete blocks.
Trade between Zaatari and the outside, including the smuggling of goods, is
flourishing despite the trenches and mounds that the United Nations has dug
along the camp's perimeter.

''Everything happens at triple speed in Zaatari,'' said Jonathan Campbell, the
emergency coordinator for the Syrian refugees in Jordan at the United Nations
World Food Program. ''We don't look at Zaatari as a camp anymore, but as a
municipality or town. I don't believe the Syrians want to stay. But I know that
Jordan is suspicious because every wave of refugees in the past has never
left.''

With 120,000 refugees, Zaatari is already the fourth-largest community in
Jordan. Each of the camp's 12 sections is headed by local leaders, many of whom
do not hesitate to exercise their influence through violence.

In the camp's oldest section, around the Champs-Élysées, Mohammad al-Hariri, 48,
a former instructor of air-conditioner maintenance in the Syrian city of Dara'a,
had emerged as a leader. Better known as Abu Hussein, he welcomed guests inside
a trailer reserved for entertaining.

''Tea, coffee? Whiskey, hashish or beer?'' he said, with a twinkle in his eyes.
''Just checking.''

Abu Hussein lamented the difficulty of maintaining order in his area. The
refugees had come from different villages, he explained, though a sense of
community was slowly taking shape. He waved away suggestions about his
leadership, finally allowing that he sometimes helped settle disputes.

Ms. Mansour, the woman with the four-tier fountain, has been in Zaatari for one
year. The nearly $250 her husband spent on the fountain was worth it, she said.
In the evenings, the couple sat in the courtyard with their five children,
turned off the lights and listened to Umm Kulthum, a famed Egyptian singer.
''Everyone is jealous of my home,'' she said.

But Mazen al-Hraki, 31, was not so lucky. He spent one month and $1,400 to have
a small, concrete swimming pool built in his compound, before the authorities
forced him to close it last month, citing health risks, not to mention the need
to conserve water.

''We were able to enjoy it for only four days,'' Mr. Hraki said. ''I'm hoping a
storm will come and tear it apart.''

For Jordan's monarchy, which has faced popular protests over promised overhauls
since the Arab Spring revolts, the refugee crisis has presented a challenge.

With the fears of its core constituents, the East Bankers, that they risk losing
their influence to Palestinian-Jordanians, Jordan has rejected Syrian refugees
of Palestinian origin, sometimes turning them back at the border, according to
international humanitarian organizations. Many of those who have made it into
Jordan have been kept in a facility in a northern town called Cyber City.

Jordan has remained vague about its policy toward refugees of Palestinian
origin. Mr. Saif, the planning minister, said it was a ''sensitive issue,''
adding, ''We don't want really any additional demographic pressure on the
country.''

The East Bankers have been the hardest hit as the influx of Syrian refugees has
led to higher rents. Here in Mafraq, protests were held early this year after
many East Bank families became homeless because of higher rents. A group called
the Mafraq Youth Movement bought United Nations tents from dealers inside the
Zaatari camp and housed about 20 Jordanian families in a park in the middle of
the city. They called it ''Camp for Displaced Jordanians.''

One of the group's leaders, Ahmad al-Amoush, spoke inside his organization's
storefront office. ''We're not against the Syrian refugees, but we want them
kept inside the camps,'' he said, adding that, if they exceeded capacity, ''We
should build more camps.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/10/06/world/middleeast/as-syrian-refugees-develop-ro
ots-jordan-grows-wary.html

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: COMFORTS OF HOME: Young Syrian refugees, playing in a fountain
in their home at the Zaatari camp in Mafraq Province, Jordan, are among the
roughly 120,000 people at the camp.
ADJUSTING: From left: Yazi, 13, a Syrian refugee, standing and reading during a
class in Mafraq Province
Syrians with trailers at the Zaatari camp
Syrians working in Jordan. Some refugees are seemingly settling in for the long
haul by recreating fixtures of their past domestic lives, unsettling Jordanians,
who fear the Syrians will stay and change demographics. (A6)
 A Syrian refugee at the Zaatari camp in a pool that his father built but was
forced to close. About 600,000 Syrian refugees are in  Jordan, although the
Jordanian government says there are hundreds of thousands more. More photos are
at nytimes.com/world. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LYNSEY ADDARIO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(A10) MAP (A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 13, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

N.S.A. Director Firmly Defends Surveillance Efforts

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1176 words


FORT MEADE, Md. -- The director of the National Security Agency, Gen. Keith B.
Alexander, said in an interview that to prevent terrorist attacks he saw no
effective alternative to the N.S.A.'s bulk collection of telephone and other
electronic metadata from Americans. But he acknowledged that his agency now
faced an entirely new reality, and the possibility of Congressional
restrictions, after revelations about its operations at home and abroad.

While offering a detailed defense of his agency's work, General Alexander said
the broader lesson of the controversy over disclosures of secret N.S.A.
surveillance missions was that he and other top officials have to be more open
in explaining the agency's role, especially as it expands its mission into
cyberoffense and cyberdefense.

''Given where we are and all the issues that are on the table, I do feel it's
important to have a public, transparent discussion on cyber so that the American
people know what's going on,'' General Alexander said. ''And in order to have
that, they need to understand the truth about what's going on.''

General Alexander, a career Army intelligence officer who also serves as head of
the military's Cyber Command, has become the public face of the secret -- and,
to many, unwarranted -- government collection of records about personal
communications in the name of national security. He has given a number of
speeches in recent weeks to counter a highly negative portrayal of the N.S.A.'s
work, but the 90-minute interview was his most extensive personal statement on
the issue to date.

Speaking at the agency's heavily guarded headquarters, General Alexander
acknowledged that his agency had stumbled in responding to the revelations by
Edward J. Snowden, the contractor who stole thousands of documents about the
N.S.A.'s most secret programs.

But General Alexander insisted that the chief problem was a public
misunderstanding about what information the agency collects -- and what it does
not -- not the programs themselves.

''The way we've explained it to the American people,'' he said, ''has gotten
them so riled up that nobody told them the facts of the program and the controls
that go around it.'' But he was firm in saying that the disclosures had allowed
adversaries, whether foreign governments or terrorist organizations, to learn
how to avoid detection by American intelligence and had caused ''significant and
irreversible damage'' to national security.

General Alexander said that he was extremely sensitive to the power of the
software tools and electronic weapons being developed by the United States for
surveillance and computer-network warfare, and that he set a very high bar for
when the nation should use them for offensive purposes.

''I see no reason to use offensive tools unless you're defending the country or
in a state of war, or you want to achieve some really important thing for the
good of the nation and others,'' he said.

Those comments were prompted by a document in the Snowden trove that said the
United States conducted more than 200 offensive cyberattacks in 2011 alone. But
American officials say that in reality only a handful of attacks have been
carried out. They say the erroneous estimate reflected an inaccurate grouping of
other electronic missions.

But General Alexander would not discuss any specific cases in which the United
States had used those weapons, including the best-known example: its years-long
attack on Iran's nuclear enrichment facility at Natanz. To critics of President
Obama's administration, that decision made it easier for China, Iran and other
nations to justify their own use of cyberweapons.

General Alexander, who became the N.S.A. director in 2005, will retire early
next year. The timing of his departure was set in March when his tour was
extended for a third time, according to officials, who said it had nothing to do
with the surveillance controversy spawned by the leaks. The appointment of his
successor is likely to be a focal point of Congressional debate over whether the
huge infrastructure that was built during his tenure will remain or begin to be
restricted.

Senator Patrick J. Leahy, a Vermont Democrat who leads the Senate Judiciary
Committee, has already drafted legislation to eliminate the N.S.A.'s ability to
systematically obtain Americans' calling records. And Representative Jim
Sensenbrenner, a Wisconsin Republican and co-author of the Patriot Act, is
drafting a bill that would cut back on domestic surveillance programs.

General Alexander was by turns folksy and firm in the interview. But he was
unapologetic about the agency's strict culture of secrecy and unabashed in
describing its importance to defending the nation.

He insisted that it would have been impossible to have made public, in advance
of the revelations by Mr. Snowden, the fact that the agency collected what it
calls the ''business records'' of all telephone calls, and many other electronic
communications, made in the United States. The agency is under rules preventing
it from investigating that so-called haystack of data unless it has a
''reasonable, articulable'' justification, involving communications with
terrorists abroad, he added.

But he said the agency had not told its story well. As an example, he said, the
agency itself killed a program in 2011 that collected the metadata of about 1
percent of all of the e-mails sent in the United States. ''We terminated it,''
he said. ''It was not operationally relevant to what we needed.''

However, until it was killed, the N.S.A. had repeatedly defended that program as
vital in reports to Congress.

Senior officials also said that one document in the Snowden revelations, an
agreement with Israel, had been misinterpreted by those who believed that it
meant the N.S.A. was sharing raw intelligence data on Americans, including the
metadata on phone calls. Officials said the probability of American content in
the shared data was extremely small.

General Alexander said that confronting what he called the two biggest threats
facing the United States -- terrorism and cyberattacks -- would require the
application of expanded computer monitoring. In both cases, he said, he was open
to much of that work being done by private industry, which he said could be more
efficient than government.

In fact, he said, a direct government role in filtering Internet traffic into
the United States, in an effort to stop destructive attacks on Wall Street,
American banks and the theft of intellectual property, would be inefficient and
ineffective.

''I think it leads people to the wrong conclusion, that we're reading their
e-mails and trying to listen to their phone calls,'' he said.

Although he acknowledged that the N.S.A. must change its dialogue with the
public, General Alexander was adamant that the agency adhered to the law.

''We followed the law, we follow our policies, we self-report, we identify
problems, we fix them,'' he said. ''And I think we do a great job, and we do, I
think, more to protect people's civil liberties and privacy than they'll ever
know.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/10/13/us/nsa-director-gives-firm-and-broad-defense-o
f-surveillance-efforts.html

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. Keith B. Alexander at a Senate hearing this month.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 13, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fighting Back Against Revenge Porn

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 486 words


Revenge porn is one of those things that sounds as if it must be illegal but
actually isn't. It's the term of art for publishing sexual photos of someone
without his or her -- usually her -- permission, often after a breakup.

Consider Holly Jacobs, founder of the Cyber Civil Rights Initiative, who
exchanged intimate pictures with a boyfriend while in graduate school. When the
relationship ended he started posting them online. She sought help from law
enforcement, but the police said she didn't have a case because she was over 18
when the pictures were taken, and they were her ex-boyfriend's property.

So far only two states have restricted this humiliating, reputation-killing
practice. In 2004, New Jersey adopted an invasion-of-privacy law aimed at
voyeurs, which also prohibits the dissemination of sexual recordings or pictures
without consent. This month, California Gov. Jerry Brown signed a bill making
revenge porn a misdemeanor punishable with up to six months in jail and a $1,000
fine. But it contains a large loophole: it applies only if the individual who
distributed the pictures was also the photographer.

California's law does not cover situations where someone took a self-portrait
and shared it with a partner, who then uploaded it to the Internet. The Cyber
Civil Rights Initiative has estimated that 80 percent of revenge-porn images
were recorded by the victim.

California's law, though inadequate, has at least brought attention to the
problem, and other states are considering action. New York Assemblyman Edward
Braunstein, a Democrat, and State Senator Joseph Griffo, a Republican, recently
announced revenge porn legislation that would make non-consensual disclosure of
sexually explicit images a Class A misdemeanor. It would include pictures taken
by victims.

Neither current nor proposed state laws are likely to have an effect on the Web
sites that make the explicit images available to the prurient public, because
they can claim protection under the Communications Decency Act. Section 230 of
that statute has been interpreted by courts to shield sites that host
third-party content from liability, unless that content, like child pornography,
violates federal law. (Or unless sites cross the line from aggregators to
co-creators of the material in question.)

It is not clear how many people have been affected by revenge porn -- activists
rely on self-reporting -- but Ms. Jacobs has said that over 1,000 victims have
reached out to her since she started speaking out on this issue. And a tour
through a site like Private Voyeur reveals a depressingly large cache of
photographs.

Going through a breakup is bad enough; going through a breakup and finding out
that your ex is a horrible person is worse. Although lawmakers can't do much to
help their constituents with these difficulties, they can work to provide
recourse for when exes seek revenge through un-consensual pornography.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/10/13/opinion/sunday/fighting-back-against-revenge-p
orn.html

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 14, 2013 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bolstering a Phone's Defenses

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1335 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- From Lookout's headquarters here, the view extends west from
the Bay Bridge to the Golden Gate, but its employees -- mostly 20-something
engineers in T-shirts and jeans -- seem too preoccupied with the world's
nastiest new threats to take it in.

Lookout's employees are busy tracking the cybercriminals and aggressive
advertisers that target the 45 million people around the globe who have
downloaded the company's free mobile security app. That is Step 1 to a more
lucrative goal: protecting the data of big, corporate customers that are
allowing employees to use their own mobile devices on corporate networks.

The so-called bring your own device, or B.Y.O.D., trend can lead to trouble.
Last year, for example, Jackson North Medical Center in North Miami Beach, Fla.,
banned personal smartphones after a volunteer used his phone's camera to take
about 1,100 photos of patient records, including their Social Security numbers,
and sold them.

Such episodes are not that unusual. Almost half of companies that allow
personally owned devices to connect to the corporate network have experienced a
data breach, either because of unwitting mistakes by employees or -- as was the
case at the Florida hospital -- intentional wrongdoing, according to a 2012
survey of 400 technology professionals by researchers at Decisive Analytics.

''It's amazing that at power plants workers are required to wear hard hats and
steel-toed shoes, but then you have engineers plugging their mobile devices
right into the network,'' said Jerry Dixon, the former director of the cyber
division at the Department of Homeland Security. ''What could possibly go
wrong?''

With that risk in mind, Lookout is taking aim at companies and government
agencies in much the same way attackers are: it is using its app to slip under
the door of enterprises via the hundreds of millions of employees who regularly
bring their personal devices to work.

Lookout is among a handful of tech companies trying to capitalize on the
B.Y.O.D. phenomenon that people in charge of securing corporate networks say has
become their biggest headache. In the past, they could mandate that employees
use company-approved BlackBerry smartphones, which came with a tightly
controlled network.

But with BlackBerry's future uncertain -- the company was clinging to 2.9
percent of the global smartphone market last quarter, according to the research
firm IDC -- and consumers clamoring to use their iPhones, iPads and
Android-powered devices at work, tech managers have had to consider alternatives
and deal with the potential security threats that come with those alternatives.

Twice as many corporate employees use their own iPhones, iPads and Android
devices at work than use corporate-approved devices, according to Osterman
Research. Even the Internal Revenue Service, one of the slower technology
adopters, recently introduced wireless access and is considering letting
employees B.Y.O.D.

''The B.Y.O.D. train has left the station, not just for employees but for
business partners and vendors who all have access to sensitive data from their
devices,'' said Craig Shumard, the former chief information security officer at
Cigna Corporation, the large health insurer. ''BlackBerry was the de facto
standard, but now my peers are getting pressured to open it up and allow
employees to do their business on any device.''

Most B.Y.O.D. antidotes are geared toward mobile data management. Companies like
Good Technology, MobileIron, AirWatch and Citrix's XenMobile help managers
segregate corporate data from personal data on employees' phones and offer
features that help them remotely wipe proprietary information from a device if
it gets lost or stolen. Symantec and Intel's McAfee, the behemoths of the
computer security business, have developed similar capabilities by acquiring
mobile-focused start-ups.

Lookout approached the problem from a different direction, said Nushin Vaiani, a
security analyst at Canalys, a market research company. It used a consumer app
to increase the number of devices it can monitor and to gain better brand
visibility.

The Lookout app -- which backs up data, tells users if other apps are siphoning
their information, locates lost or stolen phones and even e-mails users a
snapshot of the thief if he fails to guess their passcode -- has grown in use by
a factor of 200 over the last three years. Today, those tens of millions of
devices act as global sensors, feeding all sorts of hairy threats back to
Lookout's Mobile Threat Network, a vast data set on a cloud of servers that
tracks and analyzes malicious activity and helps researchers anticipate
criminals' next moves.

Nearly half of employees at companies in the Fortune 1000 run Lookout, which
made its next move almost inevitable. Last month, the company announced Lookout
for Business, which is meant to help businesses manage and secure employees'
mobile devices, whether or not they are company-issued. The app will block
malware, spyware and adware on those devices and give corporations, and its own
customers, a clearer window into a new breed of mobile threats.

''Now they've reached the point where they have enough substantial users, that
they can then think about how to expand their solution into the business
environment,'' Ms. Vaiani said.

The potential has investors salivating. In addition to the $76 million that
Lookout has already raised, the company received $55 million this month from
Deutsche Telekom, Qualcomm Ventures, Greylock Partners and Peter Thiel's venture
firm Mithril Capital Management. The investment round valued Lookout at roughly
$1 billion.

Lookout's founders, John Hering, 30, Kevin Mahaffey, 28, and James Burgess, 30,
say that in the future, they plan to move beyond mobile phones and tablets to
cars, thermostats and any and all of the billions of so-called smart devices now
coming online.

There is little doubt that data security managers are struggling to keep tabs on
sensitive information as employees start importing data to their personal
devices, inevitably lose them and download mobile apps that have access to
corporate assets. Experts and threat researchers warn that these applications
have little or no safeguards. Gartner, a research company, predicts that by
2015, 75 percent of mobile applications will fail basic security tests.

Already, Scott Borg, the director and chief economist at the nonprofit group
United States Cyber Consequences Unit, said businesses and government agencies
were finding that employees' mobile devices had become a crucial way for
attackers to reach a network.

''An enormous amount of applications out there have been Trojanized,'' Mr. Borg
said, referring to apps that criminals have tampered with. ''They have become
one of the main steppingstones for getting into the enterprise.''

A Lookout threat report this year said a tiny but growing portion of its Android
user base in the United States -- half a percentage point -- had unwittingly
downloaded mobile Trojans. And 1.6 percent have downloaded adware that pilfers
their personal data without their knowledge.

Mr. Borg said companies and agencies were discovering that the information
collected from mobile Trojans was the first step in ''spearphishing'' campaigns,
in which criminals use that data to tailor e-mails to employees with malicious
links or attachments that, once clicked, give attackers a foothold into
companies' systems.

That threat, Joseph Ansanelli, a partner at Greylock, said, particularly on
Android, has prevented tech managers from deploying Android devices in their
companies. But Lookout has teamed up with three of the four major carriers that
offer Android in the United States, Sprint, T-Mobile and Verizon. It has also
set up strategic partnerships with Deutsche Telekom in Germany and Orange in
France and now comes preloaded on T-Mobile and Sprint devices.

''In the P.C. era, the world only became less secure,'' Mr. Hering of Lookout
said. ''The goal is to make it more secure as it gets more connected.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/10/14/technology/bolstering-a-phones-defenses-agains
t-breaches.html

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Lookout app e-mails users a photograph of someone who tries
to unlock the device.
Jonathan Stull of Lookout. (B1)
 Kevin Mahaffey, left, and John Hering, of Lookout, say they eventually plan to
expand to any kind of so-called smart devices. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DASILVA FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      October 17, 2013 Thursday 00:00 EST

Seems This Anarchist Is a Laptop Hogger;
Movie Review

BYLINE: A. O. SCOTT

SECTION: MOVIES

LENGTH: 1055 words



HIGHLIGHT: "The Fifth Estate," about the WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange,
documents the ups and downs of his relationship with a onetime colleague.


At the very end of "The Fifth Estate," the filmmakers offer their subject, the
WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, a chance at pre-emptive rebuttal. Not the
actual Assange, of course, but the actor Benedict Cumberbatch, with platinum
locks and an Aussie accent providing an uncanny simulacrum. Asked what he thinks
of "the WikiLeaks movie," Assange snorts that it's more like "the anti-WikiLeaks
movie," bashes the books it's based on and casts imperious doubt on its
accuracy.

In the weeks before the film's release, the real Mr. Assange has not been shy
about sharing his feelings, publishing an open letter to Mr. Cumberbatch on the
WikiLeaks site and describing "The Fifth Estate" in an e-mail to a New York
Times reporter as "a reactionary snoozefest that only the U.S. government could
love." As of this writing, the government has not weighed in, but it seems to me
that Mr. Assange's judgment is only half right. This version of the WikiLeaks
story, directed by Bill Condon from a script by Josh Singer, is a moderate
snoozefest, undone by its timid, muddled efforts at fair-mindedness.

Mr. Assange, who has published hundreds of thousands of classified documents
exposing the secrets of governments, banks and other powerful institutions, is a
figure who inspires strong feelings, including ambivalence. The intense devotion
of some of his admirers can seem like yet another digital cult of personality,
while the disdain and condescension of critics often looks defensive and
clueless. "The Fifth Estate" tries to have it both ways, to harness the
righteous, transgressive thrill of the WikiLeaks project and also to wag a
cautionary finger when it appears to go too far.

The story, flashing back from a pivotal moment in 2010 when Assange and his
colleagues are preparing to publish a huge cache of diplomatic cables, traces an
arc from admiration to disillusionment. It charts the relationship between
Assange and Daniel Domscheit-Berg (Daniel Brühl), a German hacker who joined
WikiLeaks in 2007 and later wrote one of the books that Mr. Condon and Mr.
Singer drew upon. Daniel is initially impressed by Assange's courage and
idealism and dazzled by his charisma. Leapfrogging from city to city, sleeping
on couches and living out of a backpack, Assange is like a cyber-anarchist Joan
of Arc, a clean-shaven, silver-haired wizard in the kingdom of the scruffy.

He is suspicious of authority, committed to truth-telling and instinctively
drawn to the side of the underdog. He also shows tendencies toward paranoia,
monomania and rudeness. He hogs laptops and power cords, bursts in on Daniel and
his girlfriend (Alicia Vikander) as they are trying to enjoy a quiet moment and
brings in new recruits who threaten Daniel's special position. He also, almost
incidentally, has a transformative effect on the practice of journalism,
entering into mutually beneficial if sometimes awkward alliances with
publications like Der Spiegel, The Guardian and The New York Times.

When WikiLeaks exposes the shady dealings of an international bank and publishes
video of the killing of civilians in Afghanistan, "The Fifth Estate" becomes a
swift and rousing global thriller, with energy and velocity that recall some of
the better "Bourne" movies and a flurry of fine supporting performances. (The
always excellent David Thewlis deserves mention for his brooding, fidgety
portrayal of the Guardian reporter Nick Davies.) But the geopolitics and the
news-breaking are tangled up in too much psychodrama, and the movie loses its
focus and energy as subplots and tangential themes proliferate. As we zoom from
squatter apartments to newsrooms to government offices (where Laura Linney,
Stanley Tucci and Anthony Mackie worry about their jobs and their diplomatic
contacts), the picture grows fuzzier, and the vital questions it wants to raise
about privacy, transparency and security grow muddier.

I blame the Internet. Like nearly every other movie that tries to confront that
elusive, pervasive force head on, this one quickly loses track of what it is
talking about. The challenge of conveying, on screen, the special intensity of
online life is formidable. The clicking of keys and the dragging of mice; the
pallor of faces illuminated by glowing plasma; the little bar, always growing
too slowly, that shows how much data has been downloaded -- these are visual
clichés that seem to be the only available tools.

Trying to show us what WikiLeaks is, Mr. Condon builds an open-air newsroom in
the sky where virtual selves collaborate, invisible to one another and out of
reach of the rest of the world. Trying to explain it, he and Mr. Singer stumble
into hazy psychological speculation and a sentimental story of friendship
betrayed, with Daniel playing the part of Eduardo Saverin from "The Social
Network" to Assange's Mark Zuckerberg. He's the long-suffering friend, the sane
and responsible guy through whose eyes the audience discovers the creepy
antisocial pathology of the more famous partner.

There is something a little too pat about this narrative, and about the
more-in-sorrow-than-in-anger spirit in which it is offered. "The Fifth Estate,"
careful not to make Assange either too pure a hero or too grotesque a monster,
turns him, in spite of Mr. Cumberbatch's enigmatic grace, into a bit of a bore.

"The Fifth Estate" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult
guardian). Swearing and some violence.

The Fifth Estate

Opens on Friday.

Directed by Bill Condon; written by Josh Singer, based on the books "Inside
WikiLeaks" by Daniel Domscheit-Berg and "WikiLeaks" by David Leigh and Luke
Harding; director of photography, Tobias Schliessler; edited by Virginia Katz;
music by Carter Burwell; production design by Mark Tildesley; costumes by Shay
Cunliffe; produced by Steve Golin and Michael Sugar; released by DreamWorks
Pictures and Reliance Entertainment. Running time: 2 hours 8 minutes.

WITH: Benedict Cumberbatch (Julian Assange), Daniel Brühl (Daniel
Domscheit-Berg), Anthony Mackie (Sam Coulson), David Thewlis (Nick Davies),
Alicia Vikander (Anke), Peter Capaldi (Alan Rusbridger), Carice Van Houten
(Birgitta Jonsdottir), Dan Stevens (Ian Katz), Stanley Tucci (James Boswell) and
Laura Linney (Sarah Shaw).

PHOTO: Benedict Cumberbatch as Julian Assange of WikiLeaks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK
CONNOR/DREAMWORKS PICTURES)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 18, 2013 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Seems This Anarchist Is a Laptop Hogger

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE
REVIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1041 words


At the very end of ''The Fifth Estate,'' the filmmakers offer their subject, the
WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, a chance at pre-emptive rebuttal. Not the
actual Assange, of course, but the actor Benedict Cumberbatch, with platinum
locks and an Aussie accent providing an uncanny simulacrum. Asked what he thinks
of ''the WikiLeaks movie,'' Assange snorts that it's more like ''the
anti-WikiLeaks movie,'' bashes the books it's based on and casts imperious doubt
on its accuracy.

In the weeks before the film's release, the real Mr. Assange has not been shy
about sharing his feelings, publishing an open letter to Mr. Cumberbatch on the
WikiLeaks site and describing ''The Fifth Estate'' in an e-mail to a New York
Times reporter as ''a reactionary snoozefest that only the U.S. government could
love.'' As of this writing, the government has not weighed in, but it seems to
me that Mr. Assange's judgment is only half right. This version of the WikiLeaks
story, directed by Bill Condon from a script by Josh Singer, is a moderate
snoozefest, undone by its timid, muddled efforts at fair-mindedness.

Mr. Assange, who has published hundreds of thousands of classified documents
exposing the secrets of governments, banks and other powerful institutions, is a
figure who inspires strong feelings, including ambivalence. The intense devotion
of some of his admirers can seem like yet another digital cult of personality,
while the disdain and condescension of critics often looks defensive and
clueless. ''The Fifth Estate'' tries to have it both ways, to harness the
righteous, transgressive thrill of the WikiLeaks project and also to wag a
cautionary finger when it appears to go too far.

The story, flashing back from a pivotal moment in 2010 when Assange and his
colleagues are preparing to publish a huge cache of diplomatic cables, traces an
arc from admiration to disillusionment. It charts the relationship between
Assange and Daniel Domscheit-Berg (Daniel Brühl), a German hacker who joined
WikiLeaks in 2007 and later wrote of the books that Mr. Condon and Mr. Singer
drew upon. Daniel is initially impressed by Assange's courage and idealism and
dazzled by his charisma. Leapfrogging from city to city, sleeping on couches and
living out of a backpack, Assange is like a cyber-anarchist Joan of Arc, a
clean-shaven, silver-haired wizard in the kingdom of the scruffy.

He is suspicious of authority, committed to truth-telling and instinctively
drawn to the side of the underdog. He also shows tendencies toward paranoia,
monomania and rudeness. He hogs laptops and power cords, bursts in on Daniel and
his girlfriend (Alicia Vikander) as they are trying to enjoy a quiet moment and
brings in new recruits who threaten Daniel's special position. He also, almost
incidentally, has a transformative effect on the practice of journalism,
entering into mutually beneficial if sometimes awkward alliances with
publications like Der Spiegel, The Guardian and The New York Times.

When WikiLeaks exposes the shady dealings of an international bank and publishes
video of the killing of civilians in Afghanistan, ''The Fifth Estate'' becomes a
swift and rousing global thriller, with energy and velocity that recall some of
the better ''Bourne'' movies and a flurry of fine supporting performances. (The
always excellent David Thewlis deserves mention for his brooding, fidgety
portrayal of the Guardian reporter Nick Davies.) But the geopolitics and the
news-breaking are tangled up in too much psychodrama, and the movie loses its
focus and energy as subplots and tangential themes proliferate. As we zoom from
squatter apartments to newsrooms to government offices (where Laura Linney,
Stanley Tucci and Anthony Mackie worry about their jobs and their diplomatic
contacts), the picture grows fuzzier, and the vital questions it wants to raise
about privacy, transparency and security grow muddier.

I blame the Internet. Like nearly every other movie that tries to confront that
elusive, pervasive force head on, this one quickly loses track of what it is
talking about. The challenge of conveying, on screen, the special intensity of
online life is formidable. The clicking of keys and the dragging of mice; the
pallor of faces illuminated by glowing plasma; the little bar, always growing
too slowly, that shows how much data has been downloaded -- these are visual
clichés that seem to be the only available tools.

Trying to show us what WikiLeaks is, Mr. Condon builds an open-air newsroom in
the sky where virtual selves collaborate, invisible to one another and out of
reach of the rest of the world. Trying to explain it, he and Mr. Singer stumble
into hazy psychological speculation and a sentimental story of friendship
betrayed, with Daniel playing the part of Eduardo Saverin from ''The Social
Network'' to Assange's Mark Zuckerberg. He's the long-suffering friend, the sane
and responsible guy through whose eyes the audience discovers the creepy
antisocial pathology of the more famous partner.

There is something a little too pat about this narrative, and about the
more-in-sorrow-than-in-anger spirit in which it is offered. ''The Fifth
Estate,'' careful not to make Assange either too pure a hero or too grotesque a
monster, turns him, in spite of Mr. Cumberbatch's enigmatic grace, into a bit of
a bore.

''The Fifth Estate'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult
guardian). Swearing and some violence.

The Fifth Estate

Opens on Friday.

Directed by Bill Condon; written by Josh Singer, based on the books ''Inside
WikiLeaks'' by Daniel Domscheit-Berg and ''WikiLeaks'' by David Leigh and Luke
Harding; director of photography, Tobias Schliessler; edited by Virginia Katz;
music by Carter Burwell; production design by Mark Tildesley; costumes by Shay
Cunliffe; produced by Steve Golin and Michael Sugar; released by DreamWorks
Pictures and Reliance Entertainment. Running time: 2 hours 8 minutes.

WITH: Benedict Cumberbatch (Julian Assange), Daniel Brühl (Daniel
Domscheit-Berg), Anthony Mackie (Sam Coulson), David Thewlis (Nick Davies),
Alicia Vikander (Anke), Peter Capaldi (Alan Rusbridger), Carice Van Houten
(Birgitta Jonsdottir), Dan Stevens (Ian Katz), Stanley Tucci (James Boswell) and
Laura Linney (Sarah Shaw).

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/10/18/movies/the-fifth-estate-with-benedict-cumberba
tch-as-julian-assange.html

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Benedict Cumberbatch as Julian Assange of WikiLeaks. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY FRANK CONNOR/DREAMWORKS PICTURES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            October 18, 2013 Friday

Electrical Grid Is Called Vulnerable to Power Shutdown

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1105 words



HIGHLIGHT: The communications protocol used at many electric and water utilities
may have flaws that some worry are not being fixed.


Over the past few months, the discoveries of two engineers have led to a steady
trickle of alarms from the Department of Homeland Security concerning a threat
to the nation's power grid. Yet hardly anyone has noticed.

The advisories concern vulnerabilities in the communication protocol used by
power and water utilities to remotely monitor control stations around the
country. Using those vulnerabilities, an attacker at a single, unmanned power
substation could inflict a widespread power outage.

Still, the two engineers who discovered the vulnerability say little is being
done.

Adam Crain and Chris Sistrunk do not specialize in security. The engineers say
they hardly qualify as security researchers. But seven months ago, Mr. Crain
wrote software to look for defects in an open-source software program. The
program targeted a very specific communications protocol called DNP3, which is
predominantly used by electric and water companies, and plays a crucial role in
so-called S.C.A.D.A. (supervisory control and data acquisition) systems. Utility
companies use S.C.A.D.A. systems to monitor far-flung power stations from a
control center, in part because it allows them to remotely diagnose problems
rather than wait for a technician to physically drive out to a station and fix
it.

Mr. Crain ran his security test on his open-source DNP3 program and didn't find
anything wrong. Frustrated, he tested a third-party vendor's program to make
sure his software was working. The first program he targeted belonged to
Triangle MicroWorks, a Raleigh, North Carolina based company that sells source
code to large vendors of S.C.A.D.A. systems. It broke instantly.

Mr. Crain called Mr. Sistrunk, an electrical engineer, to see if he could help
Mr. Crain test his program on other systems.

"When Adam told me he broke Triangle, I worried everything else was broken,"
said Mr. Sistrunk.

Over the course of one week last April, the two tested Mr. Crain's software
across 16 vendors' systems. They did not find a single system they couldn't
break.

By the end of the week, the two had compiled a 20-page report replete with
vulnerabilities in 16 different system vendors for the Department of Homeland
Security's Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team,
I.C.S.-C.E.R.T., which notifies vendors of vulnerabilities and issues public
advisories.

And then, they waited. It would take I.C.S.-C.E.R.T. another four months to
issue a public advisory for Triangle MicroWorks' system.

Triangle MicroWorks' engineering manager Greg Godlevski said that during those
four months, the company developed a number of its own tests to look for defects
in its software and fix them. Mr. Godlevski said the company waited for
confirmation from Mr. Crain that the problem had been fixed, then met with
I.C.S.-C.E.R.T. several times to review and comment on the government advisory.

"We take any reported problems discovered in our products very seriously," Mr.
Godlevski said. "We expend a lot of effort adding levels of security to our
protocols and ensuring that they comply to the published specifications."

D.H.S. did not return a request for comment.

Over the course of those four months, Mr. Crain and Mr. Sistrunk  found
vulnerabilities in an additional nine vendors' systems.

Like most security alerts, there are some caveats to this concern for the safety
of electric facilities: Mr. Peterson's company, Digital Bond, sells consulting
services to assess and improve the security of S.C.A.D.A. systems.

Mr. Crain also has an interest. In March, he plans to release a free version of
his security test, but for now he is charging vendors to use his program. (Mr.
Crain would not disclose pricing, since it differed for each vendor based on
vendor size, saying only that he charged in the "thousands" though he said he
charged far less than commercial services like WurldTech Security, which charges
tens of thousands of dollars for similar programs.)

"We haven't found anything we haven't broken yet," Mr. Crain said in an
interview. At minimum, the two discovered that they could freeze, or crash, the
software that monitors a substation, thereby blinding control center operators
from the power grid. Mr. Crain likened that capability to "a bank robber being
in a bank vault with the camera frozen."

In the case of one vendor, Mr. Crain found that he could actually infiltrate a
power station's control center from afar. An attacker could use that capability
to insert malware to take over the system, and like Stuxnet, the computer worm
that took out 20 percent of Iran's centrifuges, inflict actual physical harm.

"This is low-hanging fruit," said Mr. Crain. "It doesn't require some kind of
hacker mastermind to understand the protocol and do this."

What makes the vulnerabilities particularly troubling, experts say, is that
traditional firewalls are ill-equipped to stop them. "When the master crashes it
can no longer monitor or control any and all of the substations," said Dale
Peterson, a former N.S.A. employee who founded Digital Bond, a security firm
that focuses on infrastructure. "There is no way to stop this with a firewall
and other perimeter security device today. You have to let DNP3 responses
through."

Even more troubling, Mr. Peterson said, is that most DNP3 communications aren't
regulated. The original version of DNP3 worked on serial communications - a way
of transmitting data usually found in things like coaxial cables - and is still
widely deployed in large systems, particularly substations around the country.
But current cybersecurity regulations, governed by the North American Electric
Reliability Corporation's (N.E.R.C.) Critical Infrastructure Protection
Committee (C.I.P.C.) are focused on Internet Protocols, or I.P. protocols, and
specifically exclude serial communications and the equipment that uses them from
meeting any security requirements.

"Why isn't D.H.S., N.E.R.C., and the DNP3 committee telling vendors they need to
fix this now and utility owners they need to get this patched A.S.A.P.?" Mr.
Peterson said.

To date, D.H.S. has posted nine advisories, several of them for software used by
major players in the electric sector.

"This is a systemic problem," Mr. Crain said. "Most of the top five utilities
use this software and just because a patch is available, doesn't necessarily
mean that utilities are applying them."


     ·    U.S. Government Issues Warning About Security on Android Phones
     ·    Daily Report: Snowden Trained as Hacker While With N.S.A., Résumé Says
     ·    Tough Times at Homeland Security
     ·    The Dangers of Allowing an Adversary Access to a Network
     ·    Google Warns of New State-Sponsored Cyberattack Targets


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 20, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ma'am, Your Burger Has Been Paid For

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY.

A journalist in Houston who writes frequently for The New York Times.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; DISPATCH; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 870 words


IF you place an order at the Chick-fil-A drive-through off Highway 46 in New
Braunfels, Tex., it's not unusual for the driver of the car in front of you to
pay for your meal in the time it took you to holler into the intercom and pull
around for pickup.

''The people ahead of you paid it forward,'' the cashier will chirp as she
passes your food through the window.

Confused, you look ahead at the car -- it could be a mud-splashed monster truck,
Mercedes or minivan -- which at this point is turning onto the highway. The
cashier giggles, you take your food and unless your heart is irreparably rotted
from cynicism and snark, you feel touched.

You could chalk it up to Southern hospitality or small town charm. But it's just
as likely the preceding car will pick up your tab at a Dunkin' Donuts
drive-through in Detroit or a McDonald's drive-through in Fargo, N.D.
Drive-through generosity is happening across America and parts of Canada,
sometimes resulting in unbroken chains of hundreds of cars paying in turn for
the person behind them.

This is taking place at a time when the nation's legislators can't speak a civil
word unless reading from Dr. Seuss. ''We really don't know why it's happening
but if I had to guess, I'd say there is just a lot of stuff going on in the
country that people find discouraging,'' said Mark Moraitakis, director of
hospitality at Chick-fil-A, which is based in Atlanta. ''Paying it forward is a
way to counteract that.''

While confusing in the context of paying for the car behind you in a
drive-through, ''pay it forward'' means to repay a kindness by being kind to
someone else rather than the person who was kind to you. The expression was
popularized by the best-selling novel ''Pay It Forward'' by Catherine Hyde Ryan,
which was published in 1999 and was quickly adapted into a film starring Kevin
Spacey and Helen Hunt. The protagonist does three good deeds and asks the
beneficiaries to do three good deeds and so on.

Whereas paying it forward in drive-throughs occurred maybe once or twice a year
a decade ago, now fast-food operators said it might happen several times a day.

''This is an example of goodness gone viral,'' said Ms. Ryan, who since the
publication of ''Pay It Forward'' has become somewhat of a clearinghouse for
random acts of kindness. ''People bring me their pay-it-forward stories, and
I've been hearing about the drive-through phenomenon a lot lately.''

Perhaps the largest outbreak of drive-through generosity occurred last December
at a Tim Hortons in Winnipeg, Manitoba, when 228 consecutive cars paid it
forward. A string of 67 cars paid it forward in April at a Chick-fil-A in
Houston. And then a Heav'nly Donuts location in Amesbury, Mass., had a good-will
train of 55 cars last July.

Serial pay-it-forward incidents involving between 4 and 24 cars have been
reported at Wendy's, McDonald's, Starbucks, Del Taco, Taco Bell, KFC and Dunkin'
Donuts locations in Maryland, Florida, California, Texas, Louisiana,
Pennsylvania, Oklahoma, Georgia, Alabama, North Dakota, Michigan, North Carolina
and Washington.

More typically, though, it's one customer acting alone and perhaps routinely.
''We have a lady who always pays it forward in the drive-through, every day,''
said Aaron Quinton, co-owner of Old School Bagel Cafe, in Tulsa, Okla. ''I point
at the person behind and she just nods.''

The anonymity of the drive-through makes it especially easy to pay it forward
because it dispenses with any awkwardness and suspicion about motives. The payer
pulls away before the next car pulls up and discovers a gift that is impossible
to refuse.

''If you paid for someone inside a restaurant, they would see you,'' said
Jessica Kelishes, a marketing representative for an auto parts distributor, who
pays it forward at Del Taco, McDonald's and Starbucks drive-throughs in Banning,
Calif. ''I just do it out of kindness rather than for recognition.'' She said
her kindness stemmed from feeling blessed and wanting to share her good fortune.
But others have told drive-through cashiers they wanted to pay it forward in
gratitude to drivers who waved their car ahead of them in line or after noticing
in the rearview mirror a woman weeping into her steering wheel, and wanting to
make her smile. Cancer survivors have done it in appreciation of life, and new
parents have done it to celebrate their baby.

But more often there is an expressed desire to do something good at a time when
so much else in the world seems so dishearteningly bad. It's a stark contrast,
and perhaps a backlash, to the seemingly unremitting reports of unkindness in
the news -- politicians shutting down the government, N.S.A. spying, teenage
suicides resulting from cyber-bullying, vicious slayings at a mall in Kenya, gas
attacks in Syria.

''It's about giving, and letting people see not everybody is bad, and there are
nice people out there and maybe we can turn it around,'' said Connie Herring, an
optical technician in St. Pauls, N.C., who pays it forward at drive-throughs at
least once a week.

But her generosity has its limits. ''I don't do it at Starbucks because I did it
there once and that one time ended up costing me 12 bucks,'' she said. ''You
can't pay it forward if you're broke.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/10/20/opinion/sunday/maam-your-burger-has-been-paid-
for.html

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHIL MARDEN) (SR8-SR9)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                            October 21, 2013 Monday

When Is the Last Time You Did Something Nice for a Stranger?

BYLINE: SHANNON DOYNE

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 629 words



HIGHLIGHT: Why do some people routinely pay for the food ordered by people in
the car behind them at fast food drive-through windows?



Doing nice things for strangers isn't something that just came about, but in
recent years, "paying it forward" has become a trend.

What do you think compels people to, say, pay for a coffee ordered by a person
who will never see them and thus be unable to thank them?


In "Ma'am, Your Burger Has Been Paid For," Kate Murphy writes about the practice
known as "drive-through generosity," an act of kindness that has led, in some
cases, hundreds of people to pay for the order of the people in the car behind
them at fast food restaurants.

If you place an order at the Chick-fil-A drive-through off Highway 46 in New
Braunfels, Tex., it's not unusual for the driver of the car in front of you to
pay for your meal in the time it took you to holler into the intercom and pull
around for pickup.

"The people ahead of you paid it forward," the cashier will chirp as she passes
your food through the window.

Confused, you look ahead at the car - it could be a mud-splashed monster truck,
Mercedes or minivan - which at this point is turning onto the highway. The
cashier giggles, you take your food and unless your heart is irreparably rotted
from cynicism and snark, you feel touched.

... While confusing in the context of paying for the car behind you in a
drive-through, "pay it forward" means to repay a kindness by being kind to
someone else rather than the person who was kind to you. The expression was
popularized by the best-selling novel "Pay It Forward" by Catherine Hyde Ryan,
which was published in 1999 and was quickly adapted into a film starring Kevin
Spacey and Helen Hunt. The protagonist does three good deeds and asks the
beneficiaries to do three good deeds and so on.

Whereas paying it forward in drive-throughs occurred maybe once or twice a year
a decade ago, now fast-food operators said it might happen several times a day.

"This is an example of goodness gone viral," said Ms. Ryan, who since the
publication of "Pay It Forward" has become somewhat of a clearinghouse for
random acts of kindness. "People bring me their pay-it-forward stories, and I've
been hearing about the drive-through phenomenon a lot lately."

... But more often there is an expressed desire to do something good at a time
when so much else in the world seems so dishearteningly bad. It's a stark
contrast, and perhaps a backlash, to the seemingly unremitting reports of
unkindness in the news - politicians shutting down the government, N.S.A.
spying, teenage suicides resulting from cyber-bullying, vicious slayings at a
mall in Kenya, gas attacks in Syria.

"It's about giving, and letting people see not everybody is bad, and there are
nice people out there and maybe we can turn it around," said Connie Herring, an
optical technician in St. Pauls, N.C., who pays it forward at drive-throughs at
least once a week.

Students: Read the entire Opinion piece, then tell us ...


     ·    Have you ever been part of a "drive-through generosity" chain or
          something like it? If so, how did you react?
     ·    Would you ever do something nice for a stranger, knowing they will not
          be able to acknowledge your kindness? Why or why not?
     ·    Do you agree with Ms. Murphy's idea that paying it forward is a
          response to all the bad things that happen in the world?
     ·    Do you think it is effective? Why or why not?
     ·    Why do you think generosity like this in drive-through lanes has been
          such a phenomenon, but hasn't seemed to have happened in restaurants
          as much?
     ·    How could you "pay it forward"?


Students 13 and older are invited to comment below. Please use only your first
name. For privacy policy reasons, we will not publish student comments that
include a last name.


     ·    An Act of Kindness Goes Viral
     ·    Fast-Food Calorie Counting
     ·    Do You Prefer Your Tacos 'Authentic' or 'Appropriated'?
     ·    Can Kindness Become Cool?
     ·    What Are You Grateful For?


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 28, 2013 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Data Suggests U.S. Spying On Merkel Dates to '02

BYLINE: By ALISON SMALE, MELISSA EDDY and DAVID E. SANGER; Alison Smale and
Melissa Eddy reported from Berlin, and David E. Sanger from Washington. Brian
Knowlton contributed reporting from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1284 words


BERLIN -- New details about the monitoring of Chancellor Angela Merkel's
cellphone by the National Security Agency further stoked the German government's
anger on Sunday and raised two questions: Why did the United States target her
as early as 2002, and why did it take five years for the Obama administration to
put a halt to the surveillance?

The latest round of recriminations came after Der Spiegel, the German
newsmagazine, published details from what it described as an entry from an
N.S.A. database, apparently from the trove of documents downloaded by Edward J.
Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor who is now in temporary asylum in Moscow.

The database entry, according to Der Spiegel and outside experts, seemed to
indicate that the request to monitor her cellphone began in 2002. But the
document refers to her as ''chancellor,'' a position she has held only since
late 2005. That seems to suggest the database entry had been updated.

The authenticity of the document could not be independently confirmed. But the
German intelligence services believe it to be real, and in conversations between
Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser, and her German counterpart, Ms.
Rice made no effort to question the evidence, even while declining to confirm
that Ms. Merkel's cellphone was ever monitored, according to both American and
German officials.

Der Spiegel also reported that the monitoring operation was run from the United
States Embassy in the heart of Berlin, right by the Brandenburg Gate where
President Obama spoke during a visit here last June. He also spoke about a mile
from the gate during a now-famous campaign appearance in 2008. On his latest
trip, with the Snowden documents already leaking out, he promised a full review
of American spying on its allies.

The administration has seemed uncertain about how to handle the reports
concerning Ms. Merkel, who has enjoyed a close rapport with Mr. Obama and has
provided critical intelligence on Al Qaeda and on Iran's nuclear program. Last
week the White House stuck to carefully scripted talking points, saying Ms.
Merkel was not currently being monitored and would not be in the future, but
refused to say anything about the past.

That changed on Sunday, when the N.S.A. issued a statement to deny another
German news media report, published in Bild am Sonntag, that said Mr. Obama had
been briefed on the surveillance of Ms. Merkel in 2010 by Gen. Keith Alexander,
the head of the N.S.A. and of the United States Cyber Command. The report
contradicted assurances given privately to the German authorities by Ms. Rice
that Mr. Obama was unaware of any such operation.

The N.S.A. statement said that ''General Alexander did not discuss with
President Obama in 2010 an alleged foreign intelligence operation involving
German Chancellor Merkel, nor has he ever discussed alleged operations involving
Chancellor Merkel. News reports claiming otherwise are not true.''

The N.S.A. statement did not question the validity of the database entry
indicating when surveillance began, back when Ms. Merkel was the leader of the
Christian Democratic Party. Nor did it shed light on why Ms. Merkel, a rare
stalwart supporter in Europe of the Bush administration's plans to invade Iraq,
was chosen for surveillance.

On Sunday evening a senior administration official said of the spying on allies
that the White House believed that ''it's not that the N.S.A. or the
intelligence community were going rogue or operating out of bounds.'' But the
official added that two reviews of N.S.A. practices ordered by Mr. Obama are
''to ensure that the intelligence community is getting the appropriate guidance
from policy makers.''

The Obama administration has said as little as possible about the reports of the
operation against Ms. Merkel, seemingly in hopes it will blow over. But the
recent disclosures appear to have raised many new questions, including several
that White House officials, saying they could not discuss classified
intelligence matters, have been trying to deflect.

First among them is why Mr. Obama, by White House and N.S.A. accounts, was not
made aware of the surveillance of a close ally. American officials have said
that while the president approves major operations for the intelligence
agencies, he does not get involved in the selection of targets. ''I think this
just wasn't on the White House radar,'' said one administration official
familiar with internal discussions of the subject.

But given the delicacy of the subject -- and previous German protests about
other forms of surveillance -- it is unclear why General Alexander or James R.
Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, would not have informed Mr.
Obama as soon as the phone taps were disclosed. The White House has never said
when any operations against Ms. Merkel ended, but the database entry published
by Der Spiegel appeared to be current earlier this year. The Wall Street Journal
reported late on Sunday that the N.S.A. program that was used to spy on a number
of world leaders ended over the summer.

Even if Mr. Obama was unaware, it is possible some of his senior staff were.
While the President's Daily Brief, the intelligence assessment of global threats
Mr. Obama is given each day, is heavy on analysis, some of his aides receive far
more detailed accounts of intercepts in their daily binders of intelligence
assessments.

In the United States, Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican,
vigorously defended American surveillance activities in Europe, saying that much
of the anger over them flowed from a misunderstanding of their scope and intent.

Mr. Rogers insisted on the CNN program ''State of the Union'' that the N.S.A.
surveillance program, particularly regarding France, but also Germany, had been
badly misrepresented and that it was designed to protect them and other
countries from the threat of terrorist attacks.

Reporters who had seen an N.S.A. slide concluded incorrectly that the agency had
monitored 70 million French phone calls, he said, adding that reports of the
monitoring of Ms. Merkel's cellphone were also incomplete. He did not elaborate.

The extent of the German news coverage reflected how deeply anger and a feeling
of deception had penetrated the political establishment here, underscored by Ms.
Merkel's decision last week to place an indignant call to Mr. Obama. She has
said that trust must be restored, and that words will not be enough.

Ms. Merkel has come under fire at home for failing to act vigorously when Der
Spiegel first reported massive surveillance of German data in June. At the time
of Mr. Obama's visit, she concurred with him that the intelligence operations
had prevented terrorist acts in Germany. Senior officials of her government
later declared the affair over after visiting Washington in August and gaining
what they said were repeated assurances that no German laws had been broken.

The Germans and the French have said they will send senior intelligence
officials to Washington this week to work on a ''no-spy'' accord -- or another
accord that regulates spying between close allies.

Ms. Merkel's interior minister, Hans-Peter Friedrich, and other officials have
said they will review all the statements made to them by Washington and demand
further confirmation that they are true. ''The U.S.A. must explain where and to
what extent they intercepted the communications of citizens and the
government,'' Mr. Friedrich told the daily newspaper The Bild.

A leading member of Mr. Friedrich's party, the Christian Social Union, the
Bavarian sister party to Ms. Merkel's Christian Democrats, called for
trans-Atlantic trade talks between the United States and the European Union to
be suspended.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/10/28/world/europe/data-suggests-push-to-spy-on-merk
el-dates-to-02.html

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 6, 2013 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Is Losing Advantage In Spying, Report Says

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 618 words


WASHINGTON -- A congressional panel created long before the recent revelations
about government electronic spying operations issued a blistering report on
Tuesday charging that the intelligence world's research-and-development efforts
are disorganized and unfocused.

An unclassified version of the report, based on two years of work by independent
experts and two officials from inside the agencies, concludes that the United
States is losing its technological superiority over its rivals, which are
gaining ''asymmetric advantages'' by making their own investments in such
efforts and, in some cases, stealing American inventions.

In a separate white paper on cybercapabilities -- an area in which the Defense
Department, the National Security Agency and the United States Cyber Command
have made big investments -- the panel, the National Commission for the Review
of the Research and Development Programs of the United States Intelligence
Community, concludes that President Obama's efforts to differentiate the roles
of competing agencies have largely failed.

One member of the commission, Gilman Louie, a venture capitalist who was the
founder of In-Q-Tel, a private fund that was set up by intelligence agencies to
capitalize on advances in Silicon Valley, said commission members found that
intelligence agency employees had little understanding of how Mr. Obama's
efforts would affect their work.

Mr. Louie also said the intelligence agencies were heavily focused on the
development of offensive cyberweapons because ''it is easier and more
intellectually interesting to play offense than defense.''

''Defense is where we are losing the ballgame,'' he said.

The most well-known American cyberweapons were developed in a program called
Olympic Games and used against Iran's nuclear facilities.

But the unclassified version of the commission's report makes no mention of the
effort against Iran, an attempt to develop an entirely new class of weapons, or
other individual research-and-development programs. All specific examples were
stripped out, though the criticisms of the holes in the system remained,
described entirely in generic terms.

The document's findings have none of specificity and examples of the 9/11
Commission's report or a Bush-era commission report on the American efforts to
track unconventional weapons.

Commission members said the classified version of the report was more specific.

The report questions the effectiveness of the administration's efforts, and
heavy investment, in deterring and detecting cyberattacks. The commission also
suggested that no one had an overview of the research and development underway.

''We couldn't even get a list,'' said Maurice Sonnenberg, a co-chairman of the
commission.

The panel's members were particularly critical of the role of the director of
national intelligence, whose office was created after the attacks on Sept. 11,
2001, to coordinate the nation's 16 intelligence agencies.

The leader of science and technology for the director's office, commission
members said Tuesday, was not aware of some of the most classified research and
development programs. They also found that intelligence agencies were
duplicating efforts by pursuing similar projects at the same time, but because
operations were compartmentalized, few researchers were aware of their
colleagues' work.

One commission member, Shirley Ann Jackson, the president of Rensselaer
Polytechnic Institute, found particular fault with the intelligence agencies'
approach, ''which involves gathering more data than you need.''

Though the report makes no reference to the National Security Agency's bulk
collection of telephone records, Ms. Jackson appeared to be referring to efforts
like it.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/06/world/americas/us-is-losing-advantage-in-spyin
g-report-says.html

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 7, 2013 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Error Creates Deals Too Good to Be True on Walmart's Site

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 244 words


First, there was Black Friday. Then came Cyber Monday.

This week, some online shoppers found what might be called Accidental Wednesday.

Certain products on the Walmart website displayed wildly low prices Wednesday
morning, such as a kayak for $11 or a treadmill for $33, according to news
reports and Walmart. There was even a $579 projector available for $8.85.

''We did, in fact, experience a technical error that caused some items on our
website to display incorrect pricing,'' said Ravi Jariwala, a Walmart spokesman.

Information on the error that crashed prices through the floor was sketchy late
Wednesday afternoon.

Walmart said its site was not hacked, and Mr. Jariwala said the company later
discovered an internal technical error.

Sales orders were not suspended, but he said customers might have had trouble
browsing the site while the problem was being fixed. On Wednesday night, the
company said that the problem was resolved and that the problematic orders would
be canceled. Buyers will be refunded and given a $10 gift card.

If prices had also been accidentally inflated, as well -- there was a report of
a $369 FurReal Friends monkey, for example -- Mr. Jariwala said that he had not
seen it.

The company has made a concerted push toward web sales during this early holiday
season, doubling its website's offerings, to five million items, compared with
last year. But on Wednesday, it just meant there were so many more items for the
company to double-check.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/07/business/wild-price-drops-on-walmarts-website-
cause-a-stir.html

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Sinosphere)

                            November 10, 2013 Sunday

Behind E-Commerce Spree, a Day for 'Bare Branches'

BYLINE: DIDI KIRSTEN TATLOW

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 783 words



HIGHLIGHT: In China, Nov. 11 is &#8220;Bare Branch Day&#8221; or &#8220;Singles
Day,&#8221; when unmarried Chinese celebrate their status. It&#8217;s also
become an online shopping festival.


China's burgeoning, one-day e-commerce festival goes by several names - Bare
Branch Day, Singles Day (in English), the Double Eleventh. Observed every year
on Nov. 11, it's roughly the equivalent of Black Friday and Cyber Monday
combined, with a "Not Valentine's Day" thrown in for good measure. A festival
aimed at the unmarried, this year it's expected to clock up sales - on mostly
discounted online goods - of about 30 billion renminbi, or $5 billion, the state
media estimated.

Already sold before noon were 1.6 million brassieres that, folded and stacked
up, would reach three times the height of Mount Everest, and two million pairs
of underpants that, linked together, would stretch 3,000 kilometers, or more
than 1,800 miles, according to the Weibo account of Tmall, a major e-commerce
company. In one hour, Tmall sales reached 6.7 billion renminbi, more than 1
billion renminbi of that via mobile phone payments, it said. Who was buying?
Everyone - singles for themselves, for their friends, and anyone else who wanted
to join in.

55tuan.com, a Groupon-style site, offered men a bride-hunting trip to Vietnam:
"Singles, don't shed tears!" it said. "55tuan.com will send you to Vietnam to
find true love!" Referring to widespread feelings among Chinese men that women
ask a lot from them in terms of material goods when they marry, it wrote: "Go to
Vietnam and find a bride who isn't greedy for a house or a car!" The offer
appeared to be part of a growing trend among less well-off Chinese bachelors to
look for brides in poorer Southeast Asian nations such as Vietnam, Myanmar and
Laos. By now, there are several agencies catering to the trade.

What are the origins of this unusual, unofficial festival?

Legend has it that four single, male college students in Nanjing, the city in
central China, decided to celebrate, not bemoan, their status, in a culture that
expects people to marry and produce an heir before 30 as an act of filial piety.
Not to do so is tantamount to a sin, so celebrating one's single status is akin
to thumbing one's nose at society.

On the social networking site Renren.com, a bilingual entry offers a story that
is widely circulated in slightly varying forms about the festival's origins: "An
old story goes that once there were four single men, leading very boring lives.
None of them were married, or had lovers, or did anything exciting. They just
sat around all day and played Mahjong. One day they played Mahjong from 11 in
the morning until 11 at night," the page reads.

In keeping with China's fascination with numerology, they believed those four
1's represented themselves, four single men. What's more, the date was 11.11.

"These college students have since graduated, and carried their university
tradition into society," with celebrations among the unmarried beginning in the
1990s in Nanjing and spreading, at first slowly, around the country.

"Singles Day is now a special day for all fashionable youths," the page notes.

In 2009, Alibaba, the operator of the online retail giant Taobao.com, scenting
opportunity and single people's fat wallets, began offering large-scale
discounts on Nov. 11. Shoppers responded in large numbers; at Tmall, they spent
50 million renminbi on that first day, according to Xinhua. Since then the
spending has "" to more than $3.1 billion in 2012, and may reach $5 billion this
year, Xinhua reported on Sunday.

For some, the original meaning of the day wasn't lost amid the commerce:
"Wishing myself a Happy Singles Day!" a person called Kamux Is a Little Woman
Who Loves Photographing wrote on Sina Weibo, the country's biggest microblog.

Others struggled to remember: "Only remembered that today is the Double Eleventh
carnival, forgot that it's also Singles Day," wrote Chuzou de xiao mu'ou.

As China seeks to reorient its economy toward individual consumption, the
festival would seem to demonstrate that can be achieved, if the price is right.

The government "is delighted with the efforts" of the major online players for
"having unleashed a major force for the national economy," Xinhua wrote.

But is it too much of a good thing?

"What Chinese e-commerce enterprises are concerned most about right now is not
their sales volume, but the herculean task of actually delivering the goods,"
Xinhua wrote.

"In some major cities, express companies are sorely lacking manpower after many
staff have quit, preferring not to face the flood of goods," it said.


     ·    An 8-Year-Old Girl's Lung Cancer Is Blamed on Air Pollution
     ·    Epic TV Series Aims to Celebrate China-Myanmar Ties
     ·    Better Than a Tweet? In Four Characters, a New World of Meaning
     ·    First Water, Then Soldiers, Flood a Chinese Town
     ·    Touring Southeast Asia, Chinese Leader Outshines Kerry


LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 11, 2013 Monday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Salvaging Obama

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg.

LENGTH: 1796 words


President Obama is under water. His approval in the polls is low and sinking,
his signature initiative is staggering from a combination of incompetence and
sabotage, his foreign policy is a jumble. Congress is a Bermuda Triangle where
the most elementary White House business disappears. The public is numbed and
disgusted. Allies are theatrically furious about eavesdropping. Put it this way:

When the water-cooler buzz in Washington is focused on Obama's near-death
experience in last year's campaign debates, it's pretty clear he is not setting
the agenda.

I have a few suggestions for how Obama might lift his presidency up from the
bottom. The to-do list that follows consists of ideas that are worth doing on
the merits and advantageous on the politics. Most of them are familiar, because
this is a time to revive the best features of a stalled presidency, not to
launch grand new initiatives. It's not that I want the president to think small;
by all means, address the threat of climate catastrophe and push ahead on early
childhood education. But he needs to get a few wins on the scoreboard. I invite
readers to post their own suggestions in the comments section.

The first job is obvious, not least to the president. The bungling of the health
care rollout was a humiliation for an administration whose campaign wizards
famously tamed the social network in 2012. It has given Republicans license to
feign indignation even as they do their best to undermine the new program. It
has distracted the press from both the success stories (like Kentucky, where the
rollout worked the way it was supposed to) and the episodes of Republican
mischief (like Georgia, where the state blocked the hiring of ''navigators'' to
help applicants through the enrollment process). I have no doubt that the
administration will get the system working and that the program will ultimately
prove popular. But the longer it takes, the more the president squanders the
already meager public confidence that he can do anything right.

If after a few more weeks the assembled experts are still struggling to make the
website work, maybe it's time to redeploy some techies from the National
Security Agency.

Which brings me to...

Fire James Clapper.

Dismissing Clapper, the director of national intelligence, is not a new idea.
Fred Kaplan of Slate suggested it in June, after Clapper lied to Congress about
the N.S.A.'s data-mining. George Shultz, the former secretary state who belongs
on any list of great living statesmen, called for it in September. (''I don't
know how the guy who's in charge of national intelligence, Clapper, is still
there,'' Shultz told a World Affairs Council audience. ''He lied!'') Better late
than never. Obama should fire him not just because he lied, but also because
Clapper has cast himself as the defender of the status quo, the apologist for
excess. He seems to think what our government does is none of our business.

The president should draft someone widely viewed as tough-minded, clear-thinking
and credible. I'd bring back Robert Gates, who, having run both the Defense
Department and the Central Intelligence Agency, has the stature and the
technical chops, and has shown he can run a gigantic enterprise without becoming
a captive of it.

With a change of leadership should come systemic reform to make the spy agencies
more accountable. Of the various options I've read, my favorite is Max Frankel's
idea of creating a specialized court with the expertise to watch over the
intelligence agencies and enough transparency to inspire public confidence. The
president should make that idea his own.

Double down on immigration reform.

Comprehensive immigration reform is both the right thing to do and a winning
issue politically. A good, bipartisan bill has passed the Senate, with enhanced
border security, a more sensible legal immigration regimen, safeguards against
employers who cheat and legalization for many of the 11 million who live in the
shadows. This sensible reform is trapped in the House by the crossfire within
the Republican Party between those who would like to put out a welcome mat for
Hispanic voters and those, including the former profile in courage Marco Rubio,
who are cowed by the wrath of their base.

It's conceivable that some House Republicans will take heart from the experience
of New Jersey's governor, Chris Christie, who embraced humane reforms and won
half of the Hispanic vote in his re-election landslide last Tuesday.

But even if the chances of success are small, the more the White House presses
the issue, the more it isolates the ideologues from the pragmatists, and the
more it separates the right wing from business donors.

As Paul Taylor, who follows immigration for Pew Research, puts it: ''It's better
politics if the president wins, but it's still good politics if he loses.''

Rebalance foreign policy.

For years the administration has talked of ''rebalancing'' our military strategy
to address an increasingly assertive China. The Pentagon, liberated from Iraq
and drawing down in Afghanistan, has taken some modest steps in this direction,
deploying more of the Navy to Asia, devoting more resources to China's space and
cyber threats. But our rivalry with China is not, and should never be, primarily
military. We need to compete on the fields of economics and diplomacy.
Unfortunately the civilian custodians of our foreign policy have been bogged
down in the Middle East, a region that matters a lot, but not as much as it did
when we were more dependent on imported oil.

In the Middle East, Obama is now pretty much where he wants to be -- jaw-jaw,
not war-war, as Churchill liked to say -- and that is clearly where the American
people prefer him to be. Talks (hopeful) are underway to rid Syria of chemical
weapons and (less hopeful) to find a diplomatic end to that country's civil war.
There is fitful progress in the talks aimed at testing whether Iran's new
president has the will and the authority to put a verifiable lid on that
country's nuclear program. Talks are taking place on the eternal conundrum of
Israel's coexistence with the Palestinians. Success at any of those tables would
be a blessing to humanity and a great lift for the president.

But while diplomats are patiently tending these negotiations, there is time to
pay attention to unfinished Asia business. The biggest item awaiting some
Washington juice is the Trans-Pacific Partnership, an immense, stalled, Asian
free-trade agreement that would do more to counter burgeoning China than any
number of battleships.

Like most free-trade agreements, it has opposition, from critics who fear it
would insufficiently protect labor, consumers, the environment and intellectual
property. It's time for the administration to cut some deals, crack some heads
and open up those Asian markets.

Forget the Grand Bargain. Go for little bargains.

The idea of a grand fiscal bargain -- a megadeal that wins bipartisan support on
the whole complex of spending, taxes and entitlements -- was all the rage a year
ago, but it has passed its sell-by date. Not only has it proven politically
unattainable as long as the House is in thrall to a band of least-government
ideologues, it has also been overtaken by reality. Even relatively conservative
economists concede that the deficit -- a very sustainable 4 percent of gross
domestic product -- is not the problem, at least not in the foreseeable future.
There is a distant problem for Social Security and Medicare as my baby-boom
generation retires, and it would be nice to address it before young Americans
find the cupboard bare. But the immediate and urgent problems are sluggish
growth and too few jobs.

Michael Strain, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute who often
speaks sense to conservatives, suggests a ''humble bargain,'' a menu of smaller
deals.

For example, Strain says Republicans should be willing to agree to a bit more
spending on job-stimulating federal programs if Democrats agree to slow the
long-term growth of entitlements a little by, say, employing a more realistic
cost of living formula.

If the president wants to be a bit bolder, he should look at systemic fixes.
Fareed Zakaria at CNN proposes that we do away with the practice of funding our
decaying roads, bridges, airports and railroads by annual appropriations and
create instead a national infrastructure bank. Backed by federal bonds, it would
fund meritorious projects rather than those based on pork and patronage.
Christina Romer, former chairwoman of Obama's Council of Economic Advisers,
suggests a policy of ''automatic stabilization'': ''We could set up a system
that automatically cuts tax rates and increases unemployment benefits and food
stamps when the economy weakens.'' The costs would be offset in good years by
automatic debt reduction. Justin Wolfers, a University of Michigan economist who
leans Democratic, refers to this as ''Congress-proofing the economy.'' After the
last few years, you have to like the sound of that.

It may well be that -- despite the evident voter unhappiness with Washington
gridlock -- Congress will continue to be unmovable. In which case...

Nationalize the midterm elections.

President Obama, of course, will not be on the ballot a year from now, but the
midterm elections will be treated as a verdict on the state of America under his
leadership, and the outcome will have a lot to do with how he spends his final
years in office. He should miss no opportunity to portray the 2014 elections not
as 435 House contests and 33 Senate races, but as a national referendum on our
government dysfunction.

The message could be: ''Divided government has brought us paralysis and crisis
and made us a global laughingstock. Send me Democrats, and we'll get things
working again. Or at least, send me Republicans with a trace of pragmatism.''

We know the litany of reasons this will be a long shot: the gerrymandering of
Congressional districts and the natural clustering of like-minded voters tends
to make House seats one-party fiefs; the hegemony of narrow-interest money
distorts voting; it has become hard to get a presidential message out through
the media noise machine; the public has not fully grasped that the problem is
not everyone, it's mostly the Republicans.

Norman Ornstein, the veteran Congress-watcher, points out that the last time
someone succeeded in nationalizing a midterm election was 1994, when Newt
Gingrich led a Republican uprising; it took Gingrich 16 years of preparation,
and he was mobilizing against the president. But if the radicals persist in
hostage-taking, brinksmanship, shutdowns and extremist rhetoric, Ornstein says,
''Then you might see a greater backlash.''

It's worth trying. However low the president's ratings sink, Congress's are
bound to be lower.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/11/opinion/keller-salvaging-obama.html

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 12, 2013 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chinese Spree Sets the Record In Online Sales

BYLINE: By SHANSHAN WANG and ERIC PFANNER; Shanshan Wang reported from Hangzhou,
China, and Eric Pfanner from Tokyo. Didi Kirsten Tatlow contributed reporting
from Beijing.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 995 words


HANGZHOU, China -- Unmarried men across China used to spend Nov. 11 lamenting
their single status with a drink. Now that unofficial holiday has become the
world's largest online shopping event.

On Monday, China's biggest online shopping company processed more than $5.75
billion in its online payments system -- a record for a single day anywhere in
the world, surpassing by two and a half times the total for American retailers
last year on so-called Cyber Monday.

The company, Alibaba, which owns Tmall and other e-commerce sites, first latched
onto so-called Singles' Day, symbolized by the four lonely 1s of 11/11, five
years ago. The company realized men could just as easily seek solace by buying
electronic devices and other gear on its sites. Soon enough, just about everyone
else did, too.

Alibaba reported Monday that it had 402 million unique visitors to its sites --
more than a third of the adult population in China -- and prepared 152 million
parcels for shipping. Tmall.com, one of Alibaba's shopping sites, said Chinese
bought 1.6 million bras, which it helpfully noted would reach three times the
height of Mount Everest if folded and stacked, and two million pairs of
underpants, which if linked together would stretch 1,800 miles, all before the
lunch hour.

At 55tuan.com, a Groupon-style site, men were offered a bride-hunting trip to
Vietnam: ''Singles, don't shed tears!'' it said. ''55tuan.com will send you to
Vietnam to find true love!''

Like Veterans Day sales in the United States, Singles' Day promotions retain
little connection with the people or events that inspired it. As a red letter
day for shoppers, it has spread beyond lonely hearts to Chinese consumers of all
kinds -- single or married.

China's one-day shopping craze heralds the frenetic growth of Internet shopping
in that country. China is set to overtake the United States this year as the
largest online shopping market in the world, according to Forrester Research.
Chinese consumers are expected to spend $290 billion at online retail sites this
year, compared with $260 billion for their counterparts in the United States.

After moving into a new apartment in this city near Shanghai in August, Yuan
Keru, a postgraduate student, and her boyfriend waited several months to buy
furnishings for their new home. They splurged Monday.

At midnight, Ms. Yuan logged on to her laptop and clicked on Tmall. She selected
a floor lamp, a carpet and some wallpaper. Her boyfriend picked out earphones.
Finally, they added a cozy touch: his and hers cotton slippers for the winter.

In all, Ms. Yuan spent 1,500 renminbi, or nearly $250, before calling it a
night. That, Ms. Yuan said, represented about half a month's living costs for
her.

''We love window-shopping in the local department store,'' Ms. Yuan said. ''But
we have never spent so much money in one day. Never!''

China's enthusiasm for online shopping is expected to continue to grow faster
than that of the United States. Bain, a global consulting firm, expects online
shopping in China to grow at an annual rate of 32 percent from this year through
2015.

That is slower than the fevered pace of 71 percent recorded from 2009 through
2012. But it is still well above the 13 percent average rate expected for 2009
through 2015 in the United States. In 2015, the firm forecasts e-commerce in
China will total $500 billion.

''Chinese consumers are bargain-hunters, and that is what is driving the success
of 11/11,'' said Serge Hoffmann, a partner at Bain in Hong Kong.

While most Chinese were looking for deals, not everyone was pinching yuan. On
Monday afternoon, Alibaba announced to the more than 300 journalists who had
gathered at its headquarters in Hangzhou for updates on sales that a woman from
Zhejiang Province had bought a 13.33-carat diamond, costing $3.37 million.

While it was Alibaba that turned Singles' Day into a shopping event, other
e-commerce companies are getting in on the action. Dangdang.com, another
retailer, tried to get a jump on Alibaba by starting its 11/11 sale three days
early.

Global firms jumped in, too. Giants like Nike, Adidas, Procter & Gamble,
Unilever and Samsung Electronics conducted Singles' Day promotions, many of them
using Tmall. Western companies have eagerly embraced e-commerce as a way to sell
to Chinese shoppers in remote areas, where few of them have brick-and-mortar
stores. ''Online is giving them a much more effective way of reaching these
consumers,'' said Bryan Wang, an analyst at Forrester.

Chinese are also doing more shopping on mobile devices, which is not surprising
given the rapid sales of smartphones and tablets. In the first hour of sales,
from midnight to 1 a.m. Monday, Alibaba said 24 percent of the orders came in
via smartphone.

In preparation for Singles' Day, Alibaba added extra servers and enhanced
logistics to deal with the expected surge in demand. E-commerce shopping
companies like Alibaba built anticipation for 11/11 by letting consumers put
items into online shopping carts before the sales actually began. Tmall said
five million customers had already selected more than 40 items each by Sunday
evening.

Jeremy Webb, a digital expert at Ogilvy Public Relations in Beijing, said some
of the firm's clients sought to generate 15 to 30 percent of their annual sales
on Singles' Day alone. To do so, some accept extremely low profit margins or
sell at a loss.

For Alibaba, which has been preparing for an initial public offering, a major
benefit of Singles' Day is publicity, a spokesman, Yan Qiao, said.

''We are not thinking about how much profit Alibaba could achieve at all,'' Mr.
Yan said. ''The biggest value it gives us is that the festival always can create
the record of one-day gross merchandise value on Tmall.com.''

Singles' Day has been so successful that it has already given rise to a sequel.
Even as online retailers tally their receipts from 11/11, some of them are
preparing for another manufactured e-commerce event: ''Double 12'' on Dec. 12.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/12/business/international/online-shopping-maratho
n-zooms-off-the-blocks-in-china.html

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At Alibaba's offices in Hangzhou, employees and journalists
watched the online sales climb.
Yuan Keru waited until midnight Monday, then logged onto the web and spent about
$250 on furnishings for her apartment.
 Employees of Tmall, a site owned by Alibaba. Tmall said it sold two million
pairs of underpants. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY QILAI SHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                           November 12, 2013 Tuesday

Today in Small Business: Tracking Online Ads

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 438 words



HIGHLIGHT: Loans to veterans in New Jersey are up. Six tools to track online
ads. Free products from Google.


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.

The Economy


     ·    Warren Buffett's favorite market tool is flashing red.


Veterans


     ·    Small-business loans to New Jersey veterans are up 12 percent from
          last year.
     ·    LinkedIn redesigned its site for veterans.
     ·    The International Franchise Association's discount program has created
          more than 150,000 jobs at franchises for vets and their families.
     ·    An analysis finds that Walmart hires the most Army, Navy and Air Force
          vets, and Home Depot hires the most Marines.
     ·    A former Navy SEAL and business owner considers Veterans Day a perfect
          time to remember the people who gave the ultimate sacrifice for their
          country.


Marketing


     ·    Here are six tools to track the impact of online ads.


Management


     ·    The coach of the Philadelphia Eagles, Chip Kelly, tells his players a
          business story to inspire them.
     ·    This Thanksgiving, more men are tackling turkey.


Finance


     ·    Nearly all of the rumored tech I.P.O.'s are companies whose main
          customers are businesses, not consumers.
     ·    What may be the first personal circuit printer to appear on a
          crowdfunding site prompts Signe Brewster to speculate, "If it works,
          it will be an exciting option for small businesses and hobbyists
          looking to add electronic functionality to their creations."


Entrepreneurs


     ·    This entrepreneur cheated death three times.


Social Media


     ·    Why do people share things on Pinterest? "People pin what they wish
          they could have or do," said Hugh McMullen.
     ·    More teenagers are saying goodbye to Facebook and hello to messenger
          apps.


Around the World


     ·    China's "Cyber Monday" sales smash records.
     ·    Ben Rooney reports that, in Europe, it just may matter that wannabe
          entrepreneurs- known disparagingly as "wannapreneurs" - waste their
          time and other peoples' money building apps to tackle non-problems.
     ·    Pepsi plans to invest $5 billion in India by 2020.


Health Care


     ·    Some small businesses are getting notice of health insurance policy
          cancellations.
     ·    Two groups of small-business owners will be affected by the Affordable
          Care Act earlier than they might have expected.
     ·    State-run health care exchanges are reporting 49,100 enrollees so far.


Technology


     ·    Here are 22 free Google products for small-business owners.
     ·    And this is a handy comparison guide if you're looking to buy a
          tablet.


Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., a consulting firm that
helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on
Twitter.


     ·    Today in Small Business: Now Accepting Bitcoin
     ·    Today in Small Business: Amazon's Trojan Rabbit
     ·    It's a 'Captive' Market. But Is It Big Enough?
     ·    Today in Small Business: Working Weekends
     ·    Today in Small Business: Unwinding a Failed Start-Up


LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 14, 2013 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Chinese Panel Said to Oversee Domestic Security and Foreign Policy

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Chris Buckley contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1039 words


BEIJING -- China's new national security committee is mainly based on the
Washington model. It will put at the disposal of the Chinese president, Xi
Jinping, a highly empowered group of security experts who can work the levers of
the country's vast security apparatus -- and presumably respond more nimbly than
the country's multilayered party, police and military bureaucracies have been
known to do.

But the Chinese body, which was announced at the conclusion of a party meeting
this week, will apparently differ from the American National Security Council in
one crucial aspect: The Chinese version will have dual duties with
responsibility over domestic security as well as foreign policy, Chinese experts
say.

That means the new body will deal with cybersecurity as well as the unrest in
China's Tibet and Xinjiang regions, where resistance against the Han majority
population is continuing, according to Shi Yinhong, a professor of international
relations at Renmin University in Beijing and an occasional adviser to the
government.

''In China, the security question is largely domestic: cyber, Xinjiang and
Tibet,'' Mr. Shi said. The focus will be on foreign policy with a considerable
domestic component that will call for the Public Security Bureau to participate
on the committee when it discusses matters of internal security, he said.

The decision by Mr. Xi to push ahead with the national security committee drew
special attention because although two of his predecessors, Jiang Zemin and Hu
Jintao, had contemplated forming such a coordinating policy group, bureaucratic
resistance, particularly from the military, had prevented its creation, the
experts said.

Over the years, Chinese officials have asked their American counterparts about
the workings of the National Security Council, established after World War II by
President Harry S. Truman, to advise presidents on national security and foreign
policy and to coordinate policies among government agencies.

In the United States, the president is chairman of the National Security
Council, and the regular attendees include the vice president and the
secretaries of state, defense and the Treasury. The chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff is the military adviser to the council, and the director of national
intelligence is the intelligence adviser.

It seemed clear from the Chinese announcement that Mr. Xi would head the new
Chinese agency and that his position at the helm would serve to increase his
already firm grasp on power, said Zhao Kejin, an associate professor at Tsinghua
University in Beijing, who is an expert on China's diplomacy.

The precise membership of the new committee was not specified in the statement.
It may take some months and considerable political jockeying before the exact
composition of the new body is defined, Mr. Shi said.

Another obvious difference between the American model and the new Chinese agency
is the dominant role of the Communist Party in China. ''The Standing Committee
will still be king for all important things,'' said Mr. Shi, referring to the
seven men, including Mr. Xi, who are decision makers of the Politburo.

At Sunnylands, the California estate where President Obama and Mr. Xi met for a
two-day summit meeting in June, an official in Mr. Xi's entourage asked an
American official about how the National Security Council was staffed, according
to an American official who declined to be named because of the sensitivity of
the matter.

''I know of specific inquiries key Chinese officials were making as recently as
a month ago about how the U.S. N.S.C. has evolved,'' said Kenneth G. Lieberthal,
a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who was on the National Security
Council staff during the Clinton presidency. ''My understanding was that this
was on behalf of the highest levels of the leadership.''

The Chinese version of the National Security Council would most likely borrow
elements from the Department of Homeland Security, the agency created after the
September 2001 attacks to manage terrorism threats in the United States, said
Xie Yue, a professor of political science at Tongji University in Shanghai who
is an expert on Chinese domestic security policy.

''Now China and other countries are paying increasing attention to
antiterrorism, and China doesn't have an established body to coordinate or lead
here,'' said Mr. Xie, who has followed the debate in the Chinese government
about establishing a security committee.

The twin concerns of the new committee show that making a distinction between
domestic and foreign affairs is a thing of the past, said Mr. Zhao, the Tsinghua
professor.

''We believe security is not only traditional security, not only territory and
borders, but also means climate change, financial reform and terrorism,'' Mr.
Zhao said.

Mr. Zhao said Mr. Xi would dominate the new national security committee and
would add the title to the three major responsibilities he already holds:
general secretary of the Communist Party, head of the People's Liberation Army
and head of state.

Who will serve as China's equivalent of the United States national security
adviser is a tantalizing question, Chinese experts said.

The front-runner for the senior staff job at the Chinese agency is considered to
be Wang Huning, 58, who is a member of the Politburo, the director of the policy
research office of the Communist Party and a close adviser on domestic and
foreign policy to three Chinese presidents: Mr. Hu, Mr. Jiang and now Mr. Xi.

Mr. Wang is unusual in the Chinese policy firmament because his expertise covers
American politics and Chinese domestic concerns as well as foreign policy, a
portfolio of interests that would seem to coincide with the mandate of the new
national security committee.

''His skills span both foreign and domestic policy and his membership in the
Politburo gives him more political clout than anyone in the formal foreign
policy system has,'' Mr. Lieberthal said.

In the late 1990s, he wrote an essay that called for greater separation of
government and industry, a period when such ideas were less discussed than now.
Before joining government, he served as a professor of international politics
and as dean of the law school at Fudan University in Shanghai.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/14/world/asia/national-security-committee-china.h
tml

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A plainclothes  security guard  outside the  Zhongnanhai
leadership  compound in  Beijing on  Tuesday. China's  new national  security
committee will  deal with cybersecurity  as  well as the unrest  in China's
Tibet and Xinjiang  regions,  according to  one expert. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NG HAN
GUAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 15, 2013 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Attack Ravages Power Grid. (Just a Test.)

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1079 words


WASHINGTON -- In windowless rooms from here to California, nearly 10,000
electrical engineers, cybersecurity specialists, utility executives and F.B.I.
agents furiously grappled over 48 hours with an unseen ''enemy'' who tried to
turn out the lights across America. The enemy injected computer viruses into
grid control systems, bombed transformers and substations and knocked out power
lines by the dozen.

By late Thursday morning, in this unprecedented continental-scale war game to
determine how prepared the nation is for a cyberattack, tens of millions of
Americans were in simulated darkness. Hundreds of transmission lines and
transformers were declared damaged or destroyed, and the engineers were rushing
to assess computers that were, for the purposes of the drill, tearing their
system apart.

''It's going really well,'' said Gerry W. Cauley, the president and chief
executive of the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, which ran the
drill. ''A bit scary, but really well.''

There were seven ''deaths'' of police officers, firefighters and utility workers
who showed up to investigate reports of problems at substations or power lines
and were shot by attackers still on the scene. In all, there were 150
''casualties,'' Mr. Cauley said. Attempts to restore equipment and get the
lights back on were stymied by police officers who locked down the locations
because of ''active shooters.''

The degree of simulation varied, organizers said. Nobody touched actual
operating equipment, but some companies sent trucks with linemen aboard to
investigate the status of key transformers because the ''scenarios'' written by
Mr. Cauley's group included computer viruses that kept technicians at the
control centers from knowing the condition of crucial equipment.

The drill also involved ''denial of service'' attacks, in which hackers flooded
a computer connected to the Internet with so many messages that it could not
handle the load. In real life, banks and other companies have been hit with such
attacks.

Drill participants said they would not talk about the specific locations of the
simulated attacks, for two reasons: The locations were chosen at points that the
insiders knew were vulnerable, and the companies involved were promised that if
they participated, their performance would not be held up to public criticism.
The purpose, organizers said, was to pose problems that were hard to solve, to
expose areas that needed improvement.

In a much smaller drill two years ago, known as GridEx, for Grid Exercise,
analysis afterward found that participants were good at communicating with their
neighbors, electrically speaking, but not with national organizations like the
electric reliability corporation, making it hard for anyone to get an overview
of what was happening.

How well they did this time in what the national group called GridEx II will not
be clear for weeks.

One main component of the drill was a log of all communications to record who
said what to whom, by email or phone, to determine whether the participants
could promptly reach the appropriate people at power companies, police stations
or distant cybersecurity centers, and whether they could convey the appropriate
information. The information supplied by the game controllers included some
''fog of war'' confusion, Mr. Cauley said.

From one undisclosed location in suburban Washington, the electric reliability
corporation used a crew of about 40 people to lead the exercise, announcing new
attacks and other developments. At a second undisclosed spot, but also in
suburban Washington at the Department of Homeland Security's National
Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center, specialists took calls from
electric industry technicians and operators to assist in responding to about 40
cyberattacks.

At 210 utility companies, participants responded to developments served up by
drill managers. Most of the companies are in the United States, but some are
Canadian and Mexican utilities integrated into the American grid. Royal Canadian
Mounted Police officials also participated.

The script for some of the attacks, physical and cyber, resembled actual attacks
in this country and around the world, said one participant. And they came thick
and fast. ''They were trying to drive their people to saturation,'' the
participant said.

At the Southwestern Electric Power Company, a subsidiary of American Electric
Power that serves parts of Louisiana, Arkansas and eastern Texas, attackers used
guns and bombs against a power plant and a transformer, and 108,000 of the
company's 520,000 customers lost power. ''There were certainly surprises for
us,'' said Venita McCellon-Allen, the president and chief operating officer. ''I
sat up straight in my chair.''

Most of the company's participants in the drill were in a conference room at a
control center in Shreveport, La., she said, but the activity included contacts
with the corporate parent, in Columbus, Ohio. ''It was more severe than anything
we've drilled,'' she said. By the end of the exercise, 20,000 customers were
still in the dark. The parent company got hit harder: Power was knocked out for
an additional 162,000 customers, and one employee was killed.

The drill ran through business hours on Wednesday and half of the day on
Thursday, but each hour of drill time was meant to simulate about four hours of
activity. After the drill ended, top utility executives and federal officials
were to meet to discuss how they would react in the days, weeks and perhaps
months of recovery that would follow.

In a period of anxiety about cyberattacks and the vulnerability of the nation's
infrastructure, news that GridEx II would be held engendered yet more
nervousness, some of it bizarre. One website tried to connect a joint training
exercise in Hawaii between American and Chinese military personnel with the
electricity drill . Another described it as a prelude to the government's
declaring martial law.

Nadya Bartol, the senior cybersecurity strategist at the Utilities Telecom
Council, a trade group in Washington with hundreds of electric, water and gas
utility members, said it was important to remember that the drill did not
involve actual electric service. ''It's a fire drill, not a fire,'' she said.

Ms. Bartol, who was not involved in the drill, said her group's members found
exercises like this very useful. ''It's a good idea, just like it's a good idea
for a student to take a training test for the SAT,'' she said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/15/us/coast-to-coast-simulating-onslaught-against
-power-grid.html

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            November 17, 2013 Sunday

Disruptions: A Digital Underworld Cloaked in Anonymity

BYLINE: NICK BILTON

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1041 words



HIGHLIGHT: Silk Road, a vast Internet black market, stands as a tabloid monument
to old-fashioned vice and new-fashioned technology.


SAN FRANCISCO - So this is where they collared the man they call the Dread
Pirate Roberts.

It's up a flight of stone steps, past the circulation desk and the Romance
stacks, over in Science Fiction, far corner.

On a sunny Tuesday in October, federal officers entered the public library in
the Glen Park section of this city and arrested a young man who they say ran a
vast Internet black market - an eBay of illegal drugs.

Their mark, Ross William Ulbricht, says he is not the F.B.I.'s Dread Pirate
Roberts, the nom de guerre of the mastermind behind the marketplace, Silk Road.
And the facts, his lawyer says, will prove that.

However this story plays out, Silk Road already stands as a tabloid monument to
old-fashioned vice and new-fashioned technology. Until the website was shut down
last month, it was the place to score, say, a brick of cocaine with a few
anonymous strokes on a computer keyboard. According to the authorities, it
greased $1.2 billion in drug deals and other crimes, including murder for hire.

That this story intruded here, at a public library in a nice little
neighborhood, says a lot about the dark corners of the Internet. Glen Park isn't
the gritty Tenderloin over the hills, or Oakland or Richmond out in East Bay.
And that is precisely the point. The Dark Web, as it is known, is everywhere and
nowhere, and it's growing fast.

No sooner was the old Silk Road shut down than a new, supposedly improved Silk
Road popped up. Other online bazaars for illegal guns and drugs are thriving.

And the Dread Pirate Roberts - the old one, a new one, who knows? - is back,
taunting the authorities. (The pseudonym is a reference to a character in the
film "The Princess Bride" who turns out to be not one man but rather many men
passing down the title.)

"It took the F.B.I. two and a half years to do what they did," the Dread Pirate
Roberts wrote last week on the new Silk Road site. "But four weeks of temporary
silence is all they got."

So catch us if you can, the Dread Pirate is saying. The new Silk Road has
overhauled its security and "marks the dawn of a brand new era for hidden
services," he wrote.

The question is, can anyone really stamp out the Dread Pirates? Like the rest of
the Internet, the Dark Web is being shaped and reshaped by technological
innovation.

First, there was Tor, short for The Onion Router, a suite of software and
network computers that enables online anonymity. Edward J. Snowden used Tor to
leak government secrets, and the network has been important for dissidents in
places like Iran and Egypt. Of course, drug dealers and gunrunners prefer
anonymity, too.

Then there is bitcoin, the cryptocurrency that has been skyrocketing in value
lately. Bitcoin is basically virtual cash - anonymous, untraceable currency
stuffed into a mobile wallet. The kind of thing that comes in handy when buying
contraband.

It's hardly news that there are bad actors on the Internet. People have been
hacking this and stealing that for years. But the growth of the Dark Web is
starting to attract attention in Washington. Senator Thomas R. Carper, the
Delaware Democrat who is chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs, warned recently that the authorities seemed to be playing
Whac-a-Mole with websites like Silk Road. As soon as they hit one, up pops
another. This, the senator said, "underscores the inescapable reality that
technology is dynamic and ever-evolving and that government policy needs to
adapt accordingly."

The F.B.I. declined to discuss the Silk Road case. But some security experts
wonder how authorities can effectively police the Walter Whites of the web.
Matthew D. Green, a research professor of computer science at Johns Hopkins,
says buying illegal drugs online is now easier than buying them on the street
corner. Mr. Green says that Tor is incredibly difficult to crack, but that what
is really driving all this is digital cash like bitcoin.

"And cash, in small sums, is completely untraceable," he said.

Hsinchun Chen, the director of the Artificial Intelligence Laboratory at the
University of Arizona, told me that the situation was getting worse, and that
there had been a rapid rise in the last few years. Mr. Chen has done research on
the Dark Web and found that programmers use a vast network to trade software for
drugs and other contraband. Many of these sites are set up so they can be
replicated quickly if authorities take them offline.

"This underground has grown so widespread in recent years that entire
international virtual communities and black markets have been spawned across the
Internet to help facilitate trade between cyber criminals scattered in different
parts of the world," Mr. Chen said.

How many Silk Roads are out there? No one really knows. Silk Road claimed to
have one million registered users worldwide. Another site, Black Market
Reloaded, advertises illegal semiautomatic handguns and AR-15-style rifles. A
third, Atlantis, specializes in prescription pills. And after the original Silk
Road was shut down, Sheep Marketplace, which sells weapons, drugs and
counterfeit documents, quickly rose in popularity, according to Forbes.

Parmy Olson, the author of "We Are Anonymous: Inside the Hacker World of
LulzSec, Anonymous, and the Global Cyber Insurgency," said that it was difficult
to spot the criminals and troublemakers of the web in the real world. The bad
guys on the Internet do not look like the bad guys we know, she said.

After Jake Davis, the young hacker known as Topiary, was arrested in the
Shetland Islands of Scotland in 2011, Ms. Olson flew over to meet him. Mr.
Davis, who worked for Anonymous, LulzSec and other groups, eventually pleaded
guilty to attacks on several sites.

He was nothing like she expected. "He was just a scruffy and shy teenager," Ms.
Olson said. And there are plenty of people like him - or the Dread Pirate
Roberts - ready to step in and fill their shoes.

Email: bilton@nytimes.com


     ·    Daily Report: Google, Facebook and Microsoft Ask to Reveal U.S. Data
          Requests
     ·    Federal Officials Continue AT&T iPad Investigation
     ·    Federal Authorities Arrest 14 Members of Anonymous
     ·    SurveyMonkey Releases Business Version of Popular Questionnaire
          Software
     ·    Daily Report: Google's Scanning of Books for Search Upheld by Court


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 18, 2013 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Digital Underworld Cloaked in Anonymity

BYLINE: By NICK BILTON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 992 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- So this is where they collared the man they call the Dread
Pirate Roberts.

It's up a flight of stone steps, past the circulation desk and the Romance
stacks, over in Science Fiction, far corner.

On a sunny Tuesday in October, federal officers entered the public library in
the Glen Park section of this city and arrested a young man who they say ran a
vast Internet black market -- an eBay of illegal drugs.

Their mark, Ross William Ulbricht, says he is not the F.B.I.'s Dread Pirate
Roberts, the nom de guerre of the mastermind behind the marketplace, Silk Road.
And the facts, his lawyer says, will prove that.

However this story plays out, Silk Road already stands as a tabloid monument to
old-fashioned vice and new-fashioned technology. Until the website was shut down
last month, it was the place to score, say, a brick of cocaine with a few
anonymous strokes on a computer keyboard. According to the authorities, it
greased $1.2 billion in drug deals and other crimes, including murder for hire.

That this story intruded here, at a public library in a nice little
neighborhood, says a lot about the dark corners of the Internet. Glen Park isn't
the gritty Tenderloin over the hills, or Oakland or Richmond out in East Bay.
And that is precisely the point. The Dark Web, as it is known, is everywhere and
nowhere, and it's growing fast.

No sooner was the old Silk Road shut down than a new, supposedly improved Silk
Road popped up. Other online bazaars for illegal guns and drugs are thriving.

And the Dread Pirate Roberts -- the old one, a new one, who knows? -- is back,
taunting the authorities. (The pseudonym is a reference to a character in the
film ''The Princess Bride'' who turns out to be not one man but rather many men
passing down the title.)

''It took the F.B.I. two and a half years to do what they did,'' the Dread
Pirate Roberts wrote last week on the new Silk Road site. ''But four weeks of
temporary silence is all they got.''

So catch us if you can, the Dread Pirate is saying. The new Silk Road has
overhauled its security and ''marks the dawn of a brand new era for hidden
services,'' he wrote.

The question is, can anyone really stamp out the Dread Pirates? Like the rest of
the Internet, the Dark Web is being shaped and reshaped by technological
innovation.

First, there was Tor, short for The Onion Router, a suite of software and
network computers that enables online anonymity. Edward J. Snowden used Tor to
leak government secrets, and the network has been important for dissidents in
places like Iran and Egypt. Of course, drug dealers and gunrunners prefer
anonymity, too.

Then there is bitcoin, the cryptocurrency that has been skyrocketing in value
lately. Bitcoin is basically virtual cash -- anonymous, untraceable currency
stuffed into a mobile wallet. The kind of thing that comes in handy when buying
contraband.

It's hardly news that there are bad actors on the Internet. People have been
hacking this and stealing that for years. But the growth of the Dark Web is
starting to attract attention in Washington. Senator Thomas R. Carper, the
Delaware Democrat who is chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs, warned recently that the authorities seemed to be playing
Whac-a-Mole with websites like Silk Road. As soon as they hit one, up pops
another. This, the senator said, ''underscores the inescapable reality that
technology is dynamic and ever-evolving and that government policy needs to
adapt accordingly.''

The F.B.I. declined to discuss the Silk Road case. But some security experts
wonder how authorities can effectively police the Walter Whites of the web.
Matthew D. Green, a research professor of computer science at Johns Hopkins,
says buying illegal drugs online is now easier than buying them on the street
corner. Mr. Green says that Tor is incredibly difficult to crack, but that what
is really driving all this is digital cash like bitcoin.

''And cash, in small sums, is completely untraceable,'' he said.

Hsinchun Chen, the director of the Artificial Intelligence Laboratory at the
University of Arizona, told me that the situation was getting worse, and that
there had been a rapid rise in the last few years. Mr. Chen has done research on
the Dark Web and found that programmers use a vast network to trade software for
drugs and other contraband. Many of these sites are set up so they can be
replicated quickly if authorities take them offline.

''This underground has grown so widespread in recent years that entire
international virtual communities and black markets have been spawned across the
Internet to help facilitate trade between cyber criminals scattered in different
parts of the world,'' Mr. Chen said.

How many Silk Roads are out there? No one really knows. Silk Road claimed to
have one million registered users worldwide. Another site, Black Market
Reloaded, advertises illegal semiautomatic handguns and AR-15-style rifles. A
third, Atlantis, specializes in prescription pills. And after the original Silk
Road was shut down, Sheep Marketplace, which sells weapons, drugs and
counterfeit documents, quickly rose in popularity, according to Forbes.

Parmy Olson, the author of ''We Are Anonymous: Inside the Hacker World of
LulzSec, Anonymous, and the Global Cyber Insurgency,'' said that it was
difficult to spot the criminals and troublemakers of the web in the real world.
The bad guys on the Internet do not look like the bad guys we know, she said.

After Jake Davis, the young hacker known as Topiary, was arrested in the
Shetland Islands of Scotland in 2011, Ms. Olson flew over to meet him. Mr.
Davis, who worked for Anonymous, LulzSec and other groups, eventually pleaded
guilty to attacks on several sites.

He was nothing like she expected. ''He was just a scruffy and shy teenager,''
Ms. Olson said. And there are plenty of people like him -- or the Dread Pirate
Roberts -- ready to step in and fill their shoes.

Email: bilton@nytimes.com

URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/11/17/disruptions-a-digital-underworld-cloake
d-in-anonymity/

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The public library in the Glen Park section of San Francisco,
where Ross Ulbricht was arrested by federal officers in October. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
NICK BILTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           November 19, 2013 Tuesday

Today's Scuttlebot: Honoring the Selfie, and Questioning Dropbox's Valuation

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 287 words



HIGHLIGHT: Tuesday&#8217;s highlights from around the web include tributes to
the word of the year. Plus, an argument for why valuing a cloud storage company
at $8 billion might be misguided.


Every day, The New York Times's staff scours the web for interesting and
peculiar items.

For much of Tuesday, the Internet was smitten with the selfie, which was made
the word of the year by the Oxford Dictionaries.

The term, whose definition was recently added by the organization, refers to a
self-portrait taken and then uploaded to a social media site like Facebook or
Instagram. The announcement spawned numerous blog posts, photo essays and even a
New Yorker cartoon attesting to the word's cultural significance.

"Make it look like a selfie." Via @NewYorker Link: http://t.co/TPJmdbn817
http://t.co/2KxrWpVRMz

- Nick Bilton (@nickbilton)19 Nov 13

Here's what else we noticed today:

The Great Snapchat Mirage
Buzzfeed |  Are technology companies back to inventing strange new metrics? A
close look at Snapchat's metrics makes it seem so. - Claire Cain Miller

Poking Fun at Facebook
The New Yorker |  The Facebook flute? A daily cartoon mocked the social
network's bid for Snapchat, the photo and video messaging service. - Ashwin
Seshagiri

In Cloud Storage, a Fleeting Romance
Quartz |  What's the one problem with Dropbox's $8 billion valuation? One
commentator argued that the service was too easy to leave. - Ashwin Seshagiri

Tracking Shoppers' Habits
CNBC |  Citing a study that showed that Twitter users spend more on Black Friday
and Cyber Monday than the average shopper, the company made a push for
last-minute holiday advertising dollars. - Ashwin Seshagiri

And, finally, a contender for tweet of the day offered what may be the original
selfie:

The original photographic "selfie." Robert Cornelius, self-portrait, Oct or Nov
1839, daguerreotype. http://t.co/aIkKM49wQ2  via @wayneford

- SheilaThorpe (@SheilaThorpe)19 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 22, 2013 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Holidays Approach, Retailers Fight for Sales

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 907 words


Major retailers are bracing for a tough holiday season, reflected again this
week in the gloomy third-quarter earnings issued on Thursday by Target and
Sears. Target's earnings dropped 46 percent from a year ago, dragged down by a
costly expansion in Canada and a bleak outlook for consumer spending in the
United States. The company also lowered its forecast for the year.

''G.D.P. continues to grow at a painfully slow pace, while household income and
consumer spending remains constrained,'' said Gregg Steinhafel, chief executive
of Target. ''In particular, lower- and middle-income households are shopping
cautiously, as they work to stay within tight, very tight, household budgets,
which have seen additional pressure from this year's payroll tax increase.''

That budget-conscious mind-set among core consumer bases for not only Target,
but also Sears, Kmart and Walmart is translating into a fierce competition for
shoppers. Mr. Steinhafel said he expected the consumer to be ''laser-focused on
value.''

Many of the retailers are also competing with online giants like Amazon, which
has announced a spate of deals in advance of ''Black Friday'' -- the Friday
after Thanksgiving Day and the traditional start of the holiday shopping season,
though many retailers will open and offer deals on Thanksgiving Day itself.

Walmart.com began its holiday sale season on Nov. 1. The company announced this
week that it would match certain Black Friday offers from Target, Best Buy and
Toys ''R'' Us, and start offering them this Friday.

The reduction of prices on desired items like electronics, televisions or
appliances does not bode well for a struggling store like Best Buy, whose
executives acknowledged that the season's intensely competitive pricing on
certain goods would probably be hurtful, even as it reported healthier earnings
for the third quarter.

The holiday markdowns also come at a difficult time for Sears Holdings, which
includes Sears and Kmart. Sears Holdings reported a $534 million loss, or $5.03
a share. Revenue at stores open at least a year, a crucial measure of a
retailer's health, fell 3.1 percent. According to analysts surveyed by Thomson
Reuters, the company was expected to lose $3.39 a share. They calculated that
Sears reported a loss of $3.13 a share instead.

''They were slightly better than expected, but it was still a significant loss
for Sears,'' said Ken Perkins of Retail Metrics. ''They're not necessarily in
free fall, but they've been on a steady down slope for some time at Sears, and
we don't see that trend turning around any time soon.''

In a statement, Sears's chief executive, Edward S. Lampert, emphasized that the
company was trying to shift from a standard retail model to a ''member-centric''
enterprise, focusing heavily on the loyalty program called Shop Your Way. In
addition to its own strategic and structural shifts, the company has trenchant
economic issues to confront. Last month, Sears announced that it was considering
spinning off the Lands' End unit and its auto centers.

''They've been selling off some of their key assets, but there's only so long
you can sell off assets to keep the stock price up,'' Mr. Perkins said.

''Ultimately, you will end up running out of those assets and you're left with
the core retailing business.''

Walmart, the country's largest retailer, is fighting that same headwind. In a
call with reporters last week, William S. Simon, the company's chief executive,
also pointed to stagnant income among its core customers and the payroll tax
increase as lingering problems for shoppers heading into December.

Mr. Steinhafel of Target said on Thursday that consumer confidence also took a
hit during the federal government shutdown in October and the company saw
lower-than-expected sales of Halloween merchandise.

Kohl's experience is similar, and even though J. C. Penney reported some signs
of improvement, the company's overall sales performance during the holiday
season was being closely watched.

Among the meager glimmers of hope, Macy's stood out a bit, beating analyst's
expectations last week after a disappointing second quarter.

For Target, excess inventory at its Canadian operations posed a particular
challenge in the third quarter.

''In Canada, we're nearing the end of our unprecedented market launch,'' Mr.
Steinhafel said, noting that the company would soon complete opening 124
Canadian stores in 2013. And with those openings behind it, he said, the company
can focus on improving operations.

''While our initial sales and profits in Canada have not met our expectations,
we remain enthusiastic about the Canadian market and confident in the long-term
success of these stores,'' he said.

The company reported a profit of $341 million, or 54 cents a share in the third
quarter. That period included a dilution of 29 cents a share related to the
Canadian segment. A year earlier, its profits were 96 cents a share.

From now through the holiday shopping season, Target and other retailers are
vying to appeal to consumers with matching deals, competitive shipping rates and
flash promotions, and everything is happening early.

Walmart.com announced that deals for Cyber Monday, the Monday after
Thanksgiving, which used to signal the start of online shopping, will begin two
days early, on Saturday. It also said it would offer free shipping for the
holidays on orders of $35 or more -- matching the figure offered by Amazon --
beginning this Saturday.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/22/business/as-holidays-approach-retailers-fight-
for-sales.html

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Sears, above, and a Target store in the Chicago area.
Target's earnings fell 46 percent from a year ago. Sears Holdings reported a
$534 million quarterly loss. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM YOUNG/REUTERS
 SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                            November 22, 2013 Friday

An Early Start for Cyber Deals

BYLINE: RACHEL HARRIS

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 422 words



HIGHLIGHT: Some hotels and resorts are offering deals to travelers before Cyber
Monday on Dec. 2.


It seems Cyber Monday can't come soon enough for some hotels and resorts this
year. Many are getting into the holiday spirit early, offering discounted rooms,
spa vouchers and lots and lots of free drinks to travelers before they've even
had a chance to cook their turkey.

Starwood Hotels and Resorts begins its sale a week early, on Monday, Nov. 25,
with 40 percent off regular room rates at participating properties across all of
its brands in North and Latin America, including Westin, Sheraton, W Hotels, Le
Méridien and Aloft.

Dates of travel at hotels are limited, beginning Monday and ending Jan. 26,
2014. Those looking at resort stays have a little more leeway, with travel dates
extending through April 27, 2014. The Westin Snowmass Resort, a ski-in, ski-out
property near Aspen, Colo., will offer rooms at $129 for double occupancy during
that time.

Some hotels are offering special enticements to catch the eye of online shoppers
on actual Cyber Monday, Dec. 2. The Out NYC hotel in New York is giving away two
tickets to the "Hot Mess Drag Revue" at XL, the hotel's nightclub, two drinks at
its restaurant, Ktchn, and a $20 voucher for the hotel spa. That's in addition
to the 25 percent discount on rooms for stays between January and March 2014.

The Spring Creek Ranch in Jackson Hole, Wyo., is luring guests with
opportunities for pampering. Guests staying two nights from Monday through April
5, 2014, get a $75 resort credit, to be used at either the Wilderness Adventure
Spa or for food and beverages. The $299 package price (for double occupancy)
also provides free transportation to and from the airport and waives the resort
fee.

A sale from R.E.I., the adventure travel company and outdoor gear retailer, will
offer those traveling to Italy any time in 2014 a 20 percent discount on its
Cinque Terre hiking trip (the last sale was more than two years ago). That is
$700 off the member rate of $3,499 (plus $20 for a lifetime membership) for a
tour through five fishing villages along Italy's Mediterranean coast, guided by
locals and including most meals, luggage transport and all in-country
transportation.

And one upscale Caribbean boutique hotel, the Rendezvous in St. Lucia, which
caters to couples only, has thrown off promotions altogether in favor of the
simplest deal of all: 50 percent off of a four-night stay between Dec. 10, 2013
and May 24, 2014.


     ·    W Hotels Will Promote Human Rights Campaign
     ·    Hotel as Personal Trainer
     ·    Some Help on the Nonrefundable Front
     ·    Live Music Gains as a Hotel Amenity
     ·    Italy at a High Speed


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 23, 2013 Saturday 00:00 EST

How Black Friday Got Its Start

BYLINE: HILARY STOUT

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 430 words



HIGHLIGHT: The history of "black" days of the week has generally been dour, a
far cry from today's day of joyous commercial excess and great deals.


The word "black" in front of a day of the week has almost never meant anything
good.

Black Monday was the sell-off the day before the stock market crash of 1929,
Black Tuesday. Black Wednesday was used to refer to a day of widespread air
traffic snarls in 1954 as well as the day the British government was forced to
withdraw a battered pound from the European Exchange Rate Mechanism in 1992.
Black Thursday has variously been used for days of devastating brush fires,
bombings and athletic defeats, among other unpleasantness.

So how is it that the term Black Friday has now come almost universally to
denote joyous commercial excess, stupendous deals and big profits as the day
when everyone heads out to shop for the holidays the day after Thanksgiving?

It wasn't always this way. The New York Times first used the term Black Friday
in an article in 1870 to refer to the day the gold market collapsed in September
1869.

Ben Zimmer, executive producer of Vocabulary.com, who has researched and written
about the term, says its association with shopping the day after Thanksgiving
began in Philadelphia in the 1960s -- and even then the reference wasn't
positive. The local police took to calling the day after Thanksgiving Black
Friday because they had to deal with bad traffic and other miseries connected to
the throngs of shoppers heading for the stores that day.

Needless to say, that use didn't sit well with local retailers. They tried,
according to Mr. Zimmer, to give the day a more positive name: Big Friday. That
did not take, but eventually retailers -- in Philadelphia and beyond -- managed
to spin a new connotation: The day retailer's books went from red ink to black.

Most consumers probably don't know -- and don't care -- about any of this. All
they want are deals.

But the rebranding of Black Friday has been so successful that others have tried
to spread the wealth across other days of the week as the holiday shopping
season grows ever more competitive. In 2005, Cyber Monday was introduced as the
day online retailers offered big savings to holiday shoppers. A few years ago,
American Express came up with "Small Business Saturday" to encourage people to
shop (presumably with their AmEx cards) at independent local businesses the day
after Black Friday.

And as retailersbegin their holiday promotions earlier and earlier, there have
even been efforts to change the name of the day before Black Friday to Gray,
Brown, even Black Thursday.

But for most people it will still forever be Thanksgiving.

Related Articles


     ·    In War for Same-Day Delivery, Racing Madly to Go Last Mile


LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 24, 2013 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

The Transformation of Black Friday

BYLINE: By HILARY STOUT

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 419 words


The word ''black'' in front of a day of the week has almost never meant anything
good.

Black Monday was the sell-off the day before the stock market crash of 1929,
Black Tuesday. Black Wednesday was used to refer to a day of widespread air
traffic snarls in 1954 as well as the day the British government was forced to
withdraw a battered pound from the European Exchange Rate Mechanism in 1992.
Black Thursday has variously been used for days of devastating brush fires,
bombings and athletic defeats, among other unpleasantness.

So how is it that the term Black Friday has now come almost universally to
denote joyous commercial excess, stupendous deals and big profits as the day
when everyone heads out to shop for the holidays the day after Thanksgiving?

It wasn't always this way. The New York Times first used the term Black Friday
in an article in 1870 to refer to the day the gold market collapsed in September
1869.

Ben Zimmer, executive producer of Vocabulary.com, who has researched and written
about the term, says its association with shopping the day after Thanksgiving
began in Philadelphia in the 1960s -- and even then the reference wasn't
positive. The local police took to calling the day after Thanksgiving Black
Friday because they had to deal with bad traffic and other miseries connected to
the throngs of shoppers heading for the stores that day.

Needless to say, that use didn't sit well with local retailers. They tried,
according to Mr. Zimmer, to give the day a more positive name: Big Friday. That
did not take, but eventually retailers -- in Philadelphia and beyond -- managed
to spin a new connotation: The day retailer's books went from red ink to black.

Most consumers probably don't know -- and don't care -- about any of this. All
they want are deals.

But the rebranding of Black Friday has been so successful that others have tried
to spread the wealth across other days of the week as the holiday shopping
season grows ever more competitive. In 2005, Cyber Monday was introduced as the
day online retailers offered big savings to holiday shoppers. A few years ago,
American Express came up with ''Small Business Saturday'' to encourage people to
shop (presumably with their AmEx cards) at independent local businesses the day
after Black Friday.

And as retailers begin their holiday promotions earlier and earlier, there have
even been efforts to change the name of the day before Black Friday to Gray,
Brown, even Black Thursday.

But for most people it will still forever be Thanksgiving.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/24/business/the-transformation-of-black-friday.ht
ml

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                            November 25, 2013 Monday

Walkabout: Medellin, Reimagined; The New 'Longest Flight in the World'

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 180 words



HIGHLIGHT: A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.


Medellin, the city once known as the murder capital of the world and home to
cartel boss Pablo Escobar, has undergone a decade-long campaign to soften its
image and appeal to travelers. The urban renewal has not only cut down on crime,
but led to several inventive strides in architecture, technology, fashion and,
of course, night life. (Bloomberg)

An airline holds the title for 'longest flight in the world.' Paradoxically, the
flight time is almost two hours shorter than the previous record-holder.
(Jaunted)

With so many of the world's premier destinations already mapped out, finding a
place that's not teeming with other tourists can be challenging-it can also be
worthwhile. Here are seven of them. (BBC Travel)

Today, Chicago's O'Hare Airport launched AIR Chicago, a 24-hour airport radio
station, designed to provide travelers with updates on flight delays, weather
and business news. (Gadling)


     ·    Your Tips for Tackling Chicago With Kids
     ·    Your Advice for Seeing Chicago With Kids
     ·    A Campaign to Make Route 66 Hip Once More
     ·    On New Rail Trips, a Retro Ride
     ·    An Early Start for Cyber Deals


LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                           November 26, 2013 Tuesday

In Beverly Hills, Suites Celebrate a Milestone

BYLINE: TANYA MOHN

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 345 words



HIGHLIGHT: To celebrate the city&#8217;s 100th birthday, Beverly Hills hotels
will feature suites that will pay tribute to a storied past.


Five Beverly Hills luxury hotels have found a way to celebrate the city's 100th
birthday in keeping with its legendary image.

In 2014, the Beverly Hills Hotel & Bungalows, Montage Beverly Hills, the Beverly
Hilton, L'Ermitage Beverly Hills and the Peninsula Beverly Hills will each
design and decorate a nostalgic suite designed to take guests back in time.

The project, called Suite 100, was created by the Beverly Hills Conference &
Visitors Bureau. Each property will choose a theme and work with its own design
firm to create furnishings, décor and accessories inspired by celebrities,
fashion and lifestyle trends of a specific period from the past century.

"Film Noir" of the 1940s is the plan for the Montage Beverly Hills, with Art
Deco-inspired furniture and accessories like Lalique crystal, vintage
phonographs and vinyl records.

Marilyn Monroe, a frequent guest at the Beverly Hills Hotel & Bungalows, is the
muse behind its "The Golden Age Inspired by Marilyn Monroe" suite. Highlights
include black lacquer finishes, tropical prints, shag carpets and a bar made of
sycamore.

The Beverly Hilton will showcase the work of Tom Ford Design, with mix of
antique and modern furnishings, and colors that evoke the 1960s in its "Stylish,
Sophisticated Sixties: A Re-Imagined Revolution" theme.

A powder room papered in Interview Magazine covers and a "Do Not Disturb" sign
that is a play on Warhol's silk-screen portraits are a few of the 1970s touches
to be found at L'Ermitage Beverly Hills in its "The Era of Studio 54 - Fashion &
Art Collide" suite.

At the Peninsula Beverly Hills, "The Birth of Modern Glamour" is reflected in a
living room with photographic murals of a red-carpet Hollywood event and a
bedroom with mirrored walls accented with silvery finishes .

Bookings open on Jan. 28, 2014, for stays between March 7 and Dec. 31, 2014.
Room packages begin at $1,914, a tribute to the centennial year.


     ·    At Miami Beach Hotel, Design by Banksy
     ·    An Early Start for Cyber Deals
     ·    Hotel as Personal Trainer
     ·    Some Help on the Nonrefundable Front
     ·    Live Music Gains as a Hotel Amenity


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                          November 27, 2013 Wednesday

Online and Offline Stores Duke It Out This Week

BYLINE: JENNA WORTHAM

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 343 words



HIGHLIGHT: Physical and online retailers are in a sort of arms race, pushing
each other to start holiday sales earlier and earlier.


For many Americans, after the Thanksgiving plates are cleared and the leftovers
are packed up, it's time to put on comfy shoes and hit the shopping mall in
search of deals and bargains for Black Friday.

But this year, online shopping sites and services are putting forth a little
extra effort to appeal to those who don't want to deal with long lines and
overcrowded shops, offering early sales and products to compete with big-box
retailers.

Amazon.com, for example, started promoting its holiday deals on Sunday, with new
discounts on books, movies, toys and electronics arriving every 10 minutes.
Gilt, a flash sale site, is rolling out a series of mobile-only sales beginning
Wednesday. Other sites, like Keep.com, a social shopping site, offer price
alerts that will alert shoppers when an item they are interested in goes on
sale.

The push for online shoppers is starting much earlier this year. Traditionally,
e-commerce sites have started peddling their deals on the Monday after
Thanksgiving, so-called Cyber Monday.

Marshal Cohen, an analyst at the NPD Group, a market research company, said that
the competition between online and offline shopping destinations was sharpening,
turning into a sort of arms race. Physical retail stores have realized that a
lot of people shop online on Thanksgiving, and so they are planning to remain
open on the holiday, and many have started their holiday sales already. That
effort, in turn, has led online shops to start pushing their deals even earlier.

Of course, online sales are still just a portion of all holiday sales, around 35
percent of the total, said Mr. Cohen. The average American, for example, spends
close to $800 on holiday shopping - $280 on gifts and goods that are bought
online.

"Those who like to shop in stores will, and those that don't, won't," said Mr.
Cohen. "But this year is expected to see the largest growth of all holiday
business," he said, so offline stores want to make sure they keep their
foothold.


     ·    Best Buy Cancels Some Online Orders
     ·    Back at Work, and Catching Up on Online Shopping


LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                          November 27, 2013 Wednesday

Venice by Kayak

BYLINE: DIANE DANIEL

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 188 words



HIGHLIGHT: Tofino Expeditions is offering kayaking tours of Venice, with a stop
for a glass-blowing lesson.


A new trip offered by Tofino Expeditions, will give active travelers a different
view of the city of canals by exploring Venice on an eight-day kayaking tour.

Using sea kayaks, well suited for navigating the shallow waters of the
212-square-mile Venetian Lagoon, paddlers will traverse canals throughout the
city and visit many islands, including one holding the isolated 13th-century
Monastery San Francesco del Deserto.

When not kayaking, guests will learn to maneuver a gondola at a rowing club on
the Veneto, be treated to a private glass-blowing lesson on Murano and dine at
local restaurants serving fresh seafood and Italian favorites. Lodging is in a
variety of small boutique hotels.

Some dates of the trip can be linked with Tofino Expeditions' Cinque Terre and
Sardinia kayaking tours to achieve an Italian trifecta. Departures are on June
1, Sept. 14 and Sept. 28. Price is $4,495 a person.


     ·    Air Canada Enters the Leisure Market
     ·    In Beverly Hills, Suites Celebrate a Milestone
     ·    Aerolineas Argentinas to Restore Flights to J.F.K.
     ·    Walkabout: Medellin, Reimagined; The New 'Longest Flight in the World'
     ·    An Early Start for Cyber Deals


LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                          November 27, 2013 Wednesday

Calendar: Coming Events in Florida and Australia

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 334 words



HIGHLIGHT: A weekly capsule of events around the globe curated by our writers
and editors.


 Key West Literary Seminar, Florida

The legacies of Ernest Hemingway and Tennessee Williams live on at this annual
event. Held this year from Jan. 9 to 19, readers and writers will gather for
panel discussions, conversations, readings, lectures and writing workshops. "The
Dark Side," this year's theme for the readers' seminars, will explore mystery,
crime and thriller genres. Panelists and faculty at the event include Joyce
Carol Oates, Alexander McCall Smith, Scott Turow and Billy Collins.

Boat Parades, Punta Gorda, Fla.

This small city of Punta Gorda on Florida's Gulf Coast, which has rebounded
after a devastating blow from Hurricane Charley nine years ago, takes Christmas
on the water seriously. In December's two lighted boat parades and a canal
cruise through residential Punta Gorda Isles, homeowners decorate their
backyards, sea walls and even docked boats. On Dec. 15, there is the annual
Lighted Boat Parade on the Peace River. A prime viewing spot is Fishermen's
Village, which celebrates the season by stringing more than a million lights
around the waterfront mall. On Dec. 21, the Punta Gorda Boat Parade travels the
canal system of Punta Gorda Isles, and from Dec. 4 to 31, King Fisher Fleet
visits the same festive area three times nightly on its Christmas Light Canal
Cruises.

Woodford Folk Festival,
Queensland, Australia

From Dec. 27 to Jan. 1, more than 500 acts and 1,235 shows will perform in 28
sites during this annual festival in Queensland, about an hour north of
Brisbane. An international roster of artists will perform Celtic dance rock,
cabaret pop, folk, reggae soul and indigenous music. Dance, spoken word, circus
and vaudeville acts, comedy performances and special children's programs will
also be featured. Discount packages and camping are available.


     ·    Venice by Kayak
     ·    In Beverly Hills, Suites Celebrate a Milestone
     ·    Aerolineas Argentinas to Restore Flights to J.F.K.
     ·    Walkabout: Medellin, Reimagined; The New 'Longest Flight in the World'
     ·    An Early Start for Cyber Deals


LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 28, 2013 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

The Past in Our Future

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; TURNING POINTS | GLOBALIST; Pg.

LENGTH: 1861 words


I recently took my 16-year-old daughter Adele to see a section of the Berlin
Wall that has been preserved as part of a museum devoted to the division of the
city, Germany and Europe. It was a bright Berlin morning. Tourists gazed at the
wall. They read placards describing the young lives lost in attempts at escape
from the Soviet empire. Adele, born in 1997, with just a toehold in the last
century, wandered around. She examined these curious relics. Every now and again
she checked her Facebook page on her device. ''This just seems so ancient,'' she
said, leaning back against the wall. ''I mean, it feels like it comes from the
19th century.''

Her verdict was a little harsh. But somehow I did not have the courage to
protest, to say that this wall and this division were things so recent that I
had lived most of my life with them. Or that I had visited Moscow when
everything there came in shades of communist gray; or that I had assumed Europe
would never be whole. It seemed churlish to contest her forward-leaning truth.
As noted in the play ''The History Boys,'' ''There is no period so remote as the
recent past.''

The Cold War is long gone for Adele's generation, with the 20th century not far
behind. Of what import could it be that just a century ago a world full of a
similar optimism and convinced of the inevitability of Progress (often spelled
with an uppercase P to denote its near-religious sanctity) was plunged into
World War I as five now-defunct empiresâ[#x20ac][0/00] --
â[#x20ac][0/00]British, German, Austro-Hungarian, Tsarist and
Ottomanâ[#x20ac][0/00] -- â[#x20ac][0/00]engaged in slaughter on a scale
previously unimaginable? Or that in this cataclysmâ[#x20ac][0/00] --
â[#x20ac][0/00]and the rancor felt by Germany in defeatâ[#x20ac][0/00] --
â[#x20ac][0/00]another war was incubated that would lead to Europe's division
and this wall? Time races forward. It cannot be stopped.

Or can it? Devices now track and record our every move and, whether we like it
or not, each one of us will bequeath to posterity a virtual avatar, a digital
being whose calls, messages, transactions, loves and losses will live on in a
vast, unregulated cyberspace. The afterlife has arrived, at least for our
cyberbeings.

Even our actual bodies may be around longer. I spoke recently to

a doctor who is convinced that in the course of this century the means will be
found to arrest or reverse aging. It will become routine, he suggested, for
people to live to 150 or even 200. The doctor was excited at the notion of
doubled life spans transforming our sense of time. To me, it seemed terrifying,
an affront to the delicate equilibrium of humankind and nature. Death is feared;
but it is death that makes time a living thing. Without it there is no
resolution; life becomes a mirror with no back to it.

Time is not linear. It circles about. Researching a memoir to be published next
year that traces my family's path from Lithuania to South Africa and on to
Britain, the United States and Israel, I have been struck by the recurring
patterns. I see my forebears breaking with the past, shedding it, trying to bury
it. I see them losing touch with one another and fanning out across the world. I
see the ebb and flow of fortune and the struggles of Jewish identity and
assimilation. And all the while they carry within them a manic-depressive gene
that forms an unbroken chain with the past, liable to surface at any moment and
spawn disarray.

They also carry within them something intrinsic to the depressive state: loss.
Whatever else it may be, uprooting is also loss. In ''The Rings of Saturn,''
W.G. Sebald writes, ''My rational mind is nonetheless unable to lay the ghosts
of repetition that haunt me with ever greater frequency.'' Few escape these
ghosts of repetition. Life idles and accelerates. It also doubles back.

My father, Sydney, went to King Edward VII School in Johannesburg. It was
founded in 1902, after the end of the Boer War, and named after the then British
monarch. It did its best to mimic on the faraway Rand the customs of the English
public school: the green blazer with school crest of crown and lion; the
assemblies in the high-ceilinged, wood-paneled chapel; the classrooms set out
around a colonnaded quadrangle of red-brick buildings; the ''Yes, Sirs!'' and
''No, Sirs!'' And the cricket coaches sent from England to impart their message
of fair play. The school would have made a plausible setting for a Harry Potter
movie.

Every day, Sydney said, he listened to the headmaster: Let us pray. God grant me
the courage to accept the things I cannot change, to change the things I can and
the wisdom to know the difference. Sydney cannot change the fact that each
morning, along with the other Jewish pupils, he stands outside in the courtyard
during prayers. Kentridge, Kaplan, Meikle, Mendelsohn, Simon, Cohen: They are
huddled there, the excluded Jew Boys. They never complain: the wisdom, perhaps,
of knowing the difference between what can be changed and what cannot.

In the school magazine of 1938, the year of my father's graduation, an article
addressed the extraordinary achievements of technology: ''The machine has
brought men face to face as never before in history. Paris and Berlin are closer
today than neighboring villages were in the Middle Ages. In one sense distance
has been annihilated. We speed on the wings of the wind and carry in our hands
weapons more dreadful than the lightning.'' It continued: ''Rightly seen, the
challenge of the machine is the greatest opportunity mankind has yet enjoyed.
Out of the rush and swirl of the confusions of our times may yet arise a
majestic order of world peace and prosperity.''

Our world of hyperconnectivity, and the strains that accompany it, are not so
novel after all. The ghosts of repetition reside alongside the prophets of
progress. From the ''rush and swirl'' of 1938 where ''distance has been
annihilated''â[#x20ac][0/00] -- â[#x20ac][0/00]how often is that very phrase
used today?â[#x20ac][0/00] -- â[#x20ac][0/00]would follow in short order the
slaughter in my grandparents' Lithuanian hometowns, the mass murder of European
Jewry, Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and the anguish of all humanity.

As a Jew, I, too, would come to face forms of exclusion at my high school in
London, despite all my family's concerted attempts at assimilation. Time past
ticks within time present. Human advancement is double-edged. The potential is
always there for order to be swept away in an unsuspected gale.

The wonders of technology eliminate barriers. Yet they may also establish new
ones. Our buffeted digital lives may be the enemies of wisdom and foresight. One
thing that may be relied upon in human affairs is surprise.

In ''The War That Ended Peace,'' her recent book on World War I, Margaret
MacMillan finds ominous similarities between then and now: ''Our world is facing
similar challenges, some revolutionary and ideological such as the rise of
militant religions or social protest movements, others coming from the stress
between rising and declining nations such as China and the United States. We
need to think carefully about how wars can happen and about how we can maintain
the peace.''

Complacency is misplaced at a time of major power shifts and fast-moving change.
On one level the U.S. National Security Agency's dragnet surveillance, which has
infuriated nations from Germany to Brazil, is a geopolitical problem. On another
it presents the old quandaries of security versus freedom, and technology as
liberator or enslaver, cast in a new guise. If the technology is there, somebody
will use it.

The N.S.A. has used it, on friend and foe alike. The data sifters with vacuumed
snapshots of our lives have become less invisible. They think they know what is
best for our safety, which they seem to equate with our well-being. Silicon
Valley is full of bright young people consumed with the limitlessness of the
knowledge they can acquire and its potential to improve the lot of humankind.
They are not wrong in their optimism; the world has never seen so many people
delivered from poverty as in the past two decades.

But there is a dark side. Evgeny Morozov, who was born in Belarus, writes in his
book ''The Net Delusion'': ''Failing to anticipate how authoritarian governments
would respond to the Internet, cyber-utopians did not predict how useful it
would prove for propaganda purposes, how masterfully dictators would learn to
use it for surveillance, and how sophisticated modern systems of Internet
censorship would become.''

Yet it is striking, and perhaps encouraging, that for all the new possibilities
of gathering and dissecting limitless quantities of data, our powers of
prediction seem as limited as ever. It seems that human nature insists above all
on one quality: its mystery.

Nobody foresaw the Arab protests that swept out dictators, only to fall short of
their lofty objectives. Few foresaw just how the Syrian uprising against Bashar
al-Assad would, if allowed to fester, become a regional Shiite-Sunni clash, a
breeding ground for jihadist terrorism, and a proxy war between Iran and Saudi
Arabia, the West and Russia. The euro crisis was entirely predictable but went
largely unpredicted. An energy revolution is making the United States
self-sufficient, spurring a revival of manufacturing. Those who have been busy
writing America off have had to think again. Even Europe is beginning to stir as
growth slips among emergent economies.

The world is not as upside-down as it was a few years back.

It is reassuring that we cannot know. What would life be without the chance
encounter? Big Data meets the soul and becomes befuddled. It cannot cope with
the tricks of memory that upend our sense of time and logic.

My great-grandfather Samuel Cohen opened a wholesale grocery in central
Johannesburg as the 20th century dawned. Cohen & Sons sold local produce and
goods from England. Anything from Britain had my great-grandfather's approval.
It was the home of liberty and liberal thought. A devout man and a scholar of
Hebrew, a language not yet revived, he spent his spare time writing. In the
course of researching my book I found his journals, written in Hebrew.

One entry reads: ''Man has an exceptional sense of good and bad. This is
manifest in his experiencing and valuing the pleasantness of that which is
beneficial and the sorrow of that which is damaging. In accordance with this, he
determines what to do and what to stay away from. These feelings lead man to do
good only because it is good and to avoid bad only because it is
badâ[#x20ac][0/00] -- â[#x20ac][0/00]not because of a hope for a reward or
punishment, but rather only based on an internal emotion and drive.''

I think of him on the porch of his simple Johannesburg home, writing these words
on the eve of World War I. They were translated for me by a cousin in Jerusalem
who was raised in a secular home but has become a devout Jew. A full circle of
sorts, and one that I find satisfying, not least in the way it illustrates that
the moral dilemmas and changes and dangers we confront are not as different as
we imagine from those of previous generations. To paraphrase Kierkegaard, time
runs forward but understanding backward. And as Godard remarked, a movie should
have a beginning, middle and endâ[#x20ac][0/00] -- â[#x20ac][0/00]but not
necessarily in that order.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/28/opinion/the-past-in-our-future.html

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 28, 2013 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Cyber Subterfuge

BYLINE: By MISHA GLENNY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; TURNING POINTS | WIRED; Pg.

LENGTH: 1966 words


I awoke one morning to a disturbing email from the software giant Adobe. The
message warned that thieves had hacked into the company's servers, stolen the
source code for some of its software products and almost three million passwords
and credit card details, among which might be mine. It included a link to reset
my password.

But the link could have been an elaborate trap by criminals to infect my
computer with malware and seize control of it. My first port of call was
krebsonsecurity.com, the website of the tenacious cybercrime researcher Brian
Krebs. Sure enough, he had posted details of the hack, and it was all true. I
was instructed to click on that link and scrutinize my credit card bills for
jewelry purchases in Djibouti or Moldova.

Give credit to Adobe for 'fessing up to the hack so fast. But if a company like
Adobe, whose products are a core communications medium for web users, can't keep
the hackers out, who can?

The Internet has lost its innocence. Cybermalfeasance, or bad stuff happening on
the web, is now so pervasive that if businesses and individuals fail to
integrate security measures into their lives and operations, they are bound to
regret it. And 2013 has been a momentous year for the extent and ingenuity of
those launching attacks on networks around the world.

Innovation continues to alter our digital environment at breathtaking speed. And
like all entrepreneurs, the criminals, spies and so-called hacktivists seek to
exploit the changes in the architecture of the Internetâ[#x20ac][0/00] --
â[#x20ac][0/00]and in our behaviorâ[#x20ac][0/00] -- â[#x20ac][0/00]for their
own purposes.

The problem is that it's not just thieves. In the past 10 years, state and
nonstate actorsâ[#x20ac][0/00] -- â[#x20ac][0/00]intelligence agencies,
terrorist groups and cybermilitary operatives to name but a fewâ[#x20ac][0/00]
-- â[#x20ac][0/00]have become engaged in dubious practices on the Web. If we
didn't appreciate that before, Edward J. Snowden's revelations about the
National Security Agency have made it very plain.

Those in the cybersecurity industry who are trying to protect you now face a
huge problem: ascertaining exactly who the perpetrator is when an attack
happens. Criminals learn from hacktivists; cyberintelligence agents pick up tips
from criminals, and in the background, military strategists are testing
potential enemy defenses worldwide. This means the virtual world is awash with
subterfuge, malware and deception.

They engage in this activity on the Surface Web, the part of the Internet that
you and I can seeâ[#x20ac][0/00] -- â[#x20ac][0/00]or, more accurately, those
websites which can be indexed by search engines like Google or Bing. But the
hackers, cybercops and criminals also make use of the still-weirder world of the
Deep Web. The Deep Web is several hundred, possibly thousands, of times larger
than the Surface Web, and a small but significant percentage of it is used as a
place for criminal and hacking networks to hide. Within the Deep Web, there are
places where users can swap files and information that are very hard to reach if
you have not been granted access. Most computer users have no idea that the Deep
Web exists.

The Silk Road, a website selling narcotics and extreme pornography, existed only
on the Deep Web until the F.B.I. brought it down this fall and arrested one of
its alleged founders, 29-year-old Ross William Ulbricht, better known in the
business as ''Dread Pirate Roberts.'' To browse the ''eBay of drugs,'' as Silk
Road was dubbed, the visitor would have to enter the Deep Web via the TOR
network, a free system designed to prevent the monitoring of web activity and an
important tool for those suffering from political persecution.

The existence of complex systems of communication beyond the Surface Web makes
it hard to grasp exactly what is going on in the world of cybermalfeasance. It
includes three primary areas of activity: crime; commercial and political
espionage; and cyberwarfare and sabotage.

It's often tough for law enforcement and analysts to identify where one activity
ends and the next one starts.

In addition to these categories, there are two gray areas: hacktivism, notably
by the group Anonymous, whose members appear to be motivated more by ideology
than money, and whose zeal frequently takes them beyond the law; and
intellectual copyright theft, a hugely vexing question for the creative
industries, with no real solutions in sight.

The most familiar crime is the so-called high-volume, low-impact phenomenon of
credit and debit card fraud. Despite occasional horror stories, credit card
fraud remains at a manageable level for both the industry and consumers. In
2012, fraudsters got their hands on some $11.5 billion worldwide by stealing
credit card data, but this crime has been falling steadily since the second half
of the last decade, as most major territories around the world have adopted the
so-called chip and pin system. The exception to that trend is the United States,
where credit card fraud continues to rise steadilyâ[#x20ac][0/00] --
â[#x20ac][0/00]a direct consequence of the lamentable failure of card issuers,
banks and regulators to introduce chip and pin systems. U.S. cards continue to
rely on magnetic strips that are easily copied, and on signatures, which are
farcical as a security measure.

Still, card fraud is essentially an inconvenience, not a threat. The bigger
threat comes from the occasional breathtaking heist, when hackers access
databases with large stores of credit cards. The Adobe hack was one such case,
and actually modest by some standards. In February, for example, criminals
sucked a staggering $40 million from A.T.M.'s in at least two dozen countries
around the world, in just 10 hours.

Using sophisticated hacking techniques, the gang broke into the database of the
processing company in India and lifted the cap on hundreds of prepaid credit
cards they had purchased in advance. Associates around the world then gutted
A.T.M.'s of far more money than armed robbers could ever hope to get from a
physical bank raid.

The case also suggests how levels of cybercriminal organization are rising. The
lone-wolf hackers who dominated such activity a decade or so ago are being
eclipsed by more disciplined groups that identify specific targets, usually
companies, for their attacks.

This accounts for one of the most important recent developments in cybercrime:
the emergence of a vibrant secondary market in ''Zero-Day exploits.'' Zero Days
are glitches in software unnoticed by their manufactures. Hackers can use them
as digital wormholes through which to crawl into a system and take control of
it.

Increasingly, however, it makes more sense to sell them. Zero Days fetch from
$10,000 to $250,000, and the market is not defined as illegal. Buyers come from
everywhereâ[#x20ac][0/00] -- â[#x20ac][0/00]governments, spy agencies, criminal
gangs, cybersecurity companies and the military are all eager to purchase them.
For many cybercriminals who have done their apprenticeships in credit-card fraud
or hacking systems, selling Zero Days is low risk, not especially onerous and
very lucrative. Negotiations take place in the nether regions of the Deep Web or
offline, for security reasons.

Once in possession of a Zero Day, the task of planning a targeted attack becomes
much easier. And as most people in industry are now aware, the growth in
criminal activity affects business worldwide. Government departments, charities
and N.G.O.'s, corporations and small enterprises alike are now subject to
regular targeted attacks, tailored very precisely. At first glance, the numbers
are remarkable. This year, BP's chief executive, Bob Dudley, revealed that his
security department registers 50,000 attacks a day. Gen. Keith Alexander,
double-hatted chief of the U.S. National Security Agency and the Department of
Defense's Cyber Command, testified to Congress that the Pentagon has to deal
with 10 million attacks daily.

Most of these are mere irritants, digital flies that can be swatted with ease.
But among them are a few bugs that are able to penetrate the epidermis of a
networked system and inject debilitating poison. These attacks are generally
very cheap to mount, but the costs can be devastating. This year, the Syrian
Electronic Army, a group of pro-Assad hackers, started to specialize in attacks
with eye-popping consequences. In late April, the S.E.A. successfully hacked
into The Associated Press's Twitter account and used it to post a false report
that the White House had been attacked and the president wounded. In the
subsequent two minutes, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost $136.5
billion in value. The index recovered immediately, but the incident reflected
the disproportionate impact that a very simple intrusion can have.

At the same time, some of the figures bandied about by politicians, police
officials and intelligence agencies regarding the damage wrought by cybercrime
have been greatly exaggerated. The cybersecurity giant McAfee announced this
summer that losses in the United States to cybercrime could be up to $120
billion. Compare that to the $1 trillion worldwide figure that President Obama
cited in 2009, with McAfee again as the source.

By contrast, thanks to Gartner, the computer consultancy and research firm, we
have a much more precise idea of how much we are spending on cybersecurity. In
2013, global spending on protection will reach $67 billion, and by the end of
the decade it is predicted to exceed $100 billion.

The biggest game changer this year, however, was not the costs, but the
information leaked by Snowden about the extraordinary extent of the digital
espionage activities of the N.S.A., notably in conjunction with its British
partner, the Government Communications Headquarters, or G.C.H.Q.

The moral high ground, carefully constructed by the United States on the
indiscriminate hacking and spy programs run by the Chinese and the Russians, has
crumbled. Snowden's countless dossiers have demonstrated beyond doubt that the
United States has been engaging in precisely the type of systematic espionage
that it accuses Beijing and Moscow of undertaking.

Michael V. Hayden, former chief of the N.S.A. and of the C.I.A., argued rather
controversially in London in late September that there was nothing illegal about
the N.S.A.'s activities and that nobody in the United States was unduly
concerned about the Snowden revelations. That was damage control. The United
States has lost the moral high ground, and the recent disclosures of its
surveillance of the phones, email and browser of the Brazilian president Dilma
Rousseff, not to mention the semi-state oil company, Petrobras, may well come
back to haunt Washington.

Each week seems to bring a new revelation from the Snowden files, one more
embarrassing than the next. Particularly awkward was the news that the United
States has been listening to the phone conversations of the German chancellor,
Angela Merkel. It is hard to assess how much of the targets' indignant reactions
is genuine and how much is just strutting in front of an outraged domestic
public. But there are signs that the leaks are having an impact on global
telecommunications policy.

Partly as a consequence of the criminal, espionage and military activity across
the Internet, the issue of who controls the web has recently moved up the agenda
of the International Telecommunication Union. The issue of who actually runs the
basic infrastructure is being contested at the I.T.U. by a group of nations led
by Russia and China, which seek to exercise ever-greater control of the web on
their territory. Brazil and India are sympathetic to attempts to wrest greater
control from the United States in particular, and the Snowden affair could help
them.

And therein lies the paradox: the spread of malfeasance on the Internet is the
result of its openness, but this very openness may also be the best way to
combat the threats.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/28/opinion/cyber-subterfuge.html

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                        (The New York Times News Minute)

                            November 29, 2013 Friday

The New York Times Minute

BYLINE: Alyssa Kim

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 59 words



HIGHLIGHT: Black Friday begins early; Syrian refugees in Sicily; and Hells
Angels lawyer up.


 In the Video


     ·    Shop First, and Eat Later
     ·    Despite Outlaw Image, Hells Angels Sue Often | Slide Show


Previously on the Minute: Online Health Care Sign-up Delayed for Small
Businesses; Berlusconi Expelled From Italy's Senate; How to Carve a Turkey.

The New York Times Minute features top headlines from The Times throughout the
day, beginning at 6 a.m. Eastern.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                            November 29, 2013 Friday

The Spectacle and Sales of Black Friday

BYLINE: CHRISTINE HAUSER

LENGTH: 523 words



HIGHLIGHT: A number of arrests and shootings were reported across the country,
while some shoppers or the merely curious shared online footage of the Black
Friday spectacle.


Market analysts researching the buying habits of Americans have noted a growing
trendin online shopping on Black Friday, the frenetic day after Thanksgiving
when retailers try to boost annual sales with steep discounts.

But consumers who venture out from behind their computer screens to brave the
packed parking lots and long lines of brick-and-mortar stores can find
themselves in elbows-out, fists-flying confrontations that have traditionally
distinguished the start of the most important shopping period of the year.

As my colleague Elizabeth Harris reported, long lines started to form on
Thursday, as department and retail stores opened overnight with major deals that
went straight into Friday. Some big-box stores posted employees as guides and
introduced other safety measures.

But a number of arrests and shootings were reported across the country, while
some shoppers or the merely curious shared online footage of the spectacle of
people vying for flat-screen televisions or discounted electronics.

[Video: Crowds compete for electronics at a Virginia Beach Walmart, according to
this YouTube video posted by a witness, Mark Garcia. Watch on YouTube.]
[Video: Police arrest a woman on Thanksgiving at an unidentified Walmart after a
fight over merchandise.  Watch on YouTube.]
In Romeoville, outside of Chicago, Mark Turvey, the police chief, said in a
televised appearance published by The Chicago Tribune that during an attempted
arrest, a police officer shot a shoplifting suspect who tried to drive away,
dragging the officer with him in a Kohl's parking lot on Thanksgiving night. The
suspect was not believed to be in serious condition.

In California, the Carlsbad Police Department said in a statement that just
after midnight, officers arrested Javier Covarrubias, 18, a suspect in the
stabbing of another man at the El Camino Real mall.

On Thanksgiving day, the Carlsbad police had issued safety guidelines to holiday
shoppers on its Twitter account showing, somewhat unrealistically, a photograph
of an older woman with her arms full of new toys in an aisle completely empty of
other shoppers.

On your mark ... get set ... go shopping! Safely. Here is how
http://t.co/VlOsrwq5zO #CrimeFree #HappyHolidays! http://t.co/kSBEch0bIL

- Carlsbad Police (@CarlsbadPolice)28 Nov 13

The Las Vegas Metro Police Department said they were investigating a shooting
near a Target store involving an attempted robbery of a man carrying home a new
flat-screen television, the local news site 8 News NOW reported.

The Star-Ledger reportedthat a man was pepper-sprayed by the police at a Walmart
in Garfield, N.J., after he became belligerent. The man, Richard Ramos, 23, was
arrested, the newspaper said in its online report.

In Virginia, the television station WVVA reported that two men were arrested
after an argument at a Claypool Hill Walmart escalated into a nonfatal stabbing
of one of them.


     ·    Storm Threatens to 'Clobber' Thanksgiving Travel Plans
     ·    Activists Accuse Walmart of Condoning Torture of Pigs by Pork
          Suppliers
     ·    Chicago Teen Gun Victim Starred in Antigang Video
     ·    Vignettes of Black Friday
     ·    Twitter Photos From Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                           November 30, 2013 Saturday

More Luxury Hotels Open in China

BYLINE: RACHEL HARRIS

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 419 words



HIGHLIGHT: China is experiencing a boom in luxury hotels, and not just in major
cities like Shanghai and Beijing.


China is experiencing a boom in luxury hotels, and not just in major cities like
Shanghai and Beijing - evidence that finer amenities and a touch of Western
comfort are becoming more important to the country's growing number of domestic
tourists as well as to international visitors.

Last month Ritz-Carlton opened two new properties: one in Chengdu, Sichuan
Province in the southwest, and another in Tianjin, a port in the northeast. Both
cities are headquarters to several multinational corporations, manufacturers and
technology companies, drawing business travelers from all over the world, but
they are also gateways to more remote destinations in each province.

"China represents extraordinary opportunities," Hervé Humler, the president and
chief operations officer of the Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, said in an email. In
Chengdu, where leisure travelers are drawn by the cuisine, historic tea culture
and the nearby panda sanctuary, the hotel's exterior reflects the traditional
style of a Chinese courtyard home but also has modern features like jade stone
spa beds, underwater sound systems in the pools and butler services.

The Ritz-Carlton isn't the only hotelier that is focusing on China's
lower-profile cities. Hualuxe, the InterContinental Hotels Group's newest brand,
designed specifically for Chinese guests, said it would open properties across
China within the next two years, including a Mediterranean-style beach resort in
Chengdu. And Shangri-La Hotels opened the first luxury property in the city of
Qufu, in Shandong Province, in August, aiming to capitalize on the birthplace of
Confucius as a popular tourist destination.

"The Chinese government now wholeheartedly recognizes the value of international
visitors coming into China," Mark Grundy, the president of Wendy Wu Tours, which
has been operating in the Asian market for the last 18 years, said in a
telephone interview. He estimates that around 2.2 million Americans will go to
China in 2014, a majority of them business travelers.

"China has gone through a lot of changes in the last 40 years, and prior to
that, creature comforts were not on the agenda," he said, "but an American
passenger, the majority of whom are going to be baby boomers who've got time and
money, expect things to be the way they were back home in the States. And that's
beginning to happen."


     ·    A New Raffles Hotel on Hainan Island
     ·    In Beverly Hills, Suites Celebrate a Milestone
     ·    An Early Start for Cyber Deals
     ·    Hotel as Personal Trainer
     ·    Some Help on the Nonrefundable Front


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                            December 2, 2013 Monday

Today in Small Business: Gloomy Numbers

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 334 words



HIGHLIGHT: Retail sales for the big weekend disappoint. But manufacturing
accelerated in November. And, surprise, there is still work to be done on
HealthCare.gov.


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.

The Economy


     ·    An American who won this year's Nobel Prize for economics says he is
          worried about the boom in the stock market.
     ·    Manufacturing accelerated unexpectedly in November.


Retail


     ·    Thanksgiving and Black Friday saw a record $1.06 billion and $1.93
          billion, respectively, in online sales - 15.6 percent via tablets and
          8.6 percent via smartphones. Otherwise, however, the numbers were
          gloomy.
     ·    New technologies are helping stores track their customers' moves this
          season. And Amazon is testing drone delivery.
     ·    Here are 12 Vine videos that sum up Black Friday.
     ·    The president went shopping on Small Business Saturday, but Dan Haar
          thinks the nationwide effort is facing headwinds. Cheryl Isaac shares
          her Small Business Saturday experience, and Ron Burgundy talks it up
          from Bismarck, N.D.
     ·    Cyber Monday may finally live up to its hype.


Employees


     ·    A German company shows how it creates skilled workers in North
          Carolina.
     ·    A new survey finds that employees don't like working for creative
          managers.


Marketing


     ·    Please enjoy these offensive vintage advertisements that would never
          get published today.


Around the Country


     ·    Large oil companies are pulling up stakes in Kansas.
     ·    An Indian tribe hopes to build a bottled water plant in Maine.
     ·    Some business owners in Gainesville, Fla., are getting frustrated with
          homeless people.


Around the World


     ·    A credit agency downgrades the Netherlands because of its weak
          economy.


Health Care


     ·    The White House says it met its Nov. 30 deadline for HealthCare.gov,
          but there is still work to be done.


Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., a consulting firm that
helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on
Twitter.


     ·    Can You Attract Top Sales Representatives if You Don't Pay Sales
          Commissions?
     ·    A Website Concludes Its Users Need More Hand-Holding
     ·    Trying to Explain Complicated Ideas Online
     ·    A Web Site That Helps Shoppers Find Brick-and-Mortar Stores
     ·    A Start-Up Tries to Tap the Joy of Indie Food


LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                            December 2, 2013 Monday

Walkabout: Mishaps in Pet Travel; Cyber Monday Travel Deals

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 246 words



HIGHLIGHT: A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.


Not every pet travel story ends happily. One woman reports that her dog was
diagnosed with heat stroke, a urinary tract infection and liver problems,
following a United flight from Houston to Boston. (NBC Washington)

Over the past decade, Cyber Monday has morphed away from its tech-sale heritage
and gradually become a season for the travel deal. Bargains are  popping up
everywhere, but unfortunately, sorting among the scattered offerings promises to
be time-consuming. Luckily though, a few trusty sites have already done the
Google work for you and wrangled in the best of them. Shop here for deals on
hotels,  and domestic travel. (Condé Nast Traveler, International Business
Times, Travel + Leisure)

If you've ever found yourself the captive audience of an obnoxious traveler,
prone to loud displays of entitlement, and wished you had told that person off,
look no further, Elan Gale is your surrogate. (Huffington Post)

Not comfortable with  the idea of making small talk with that stranger sitting
next to you on your flight? How about listening to them chat with all their
friends? (The New York Times)

Five years after brutal terrorist attacks prompted many tourists to scratch
Mumbai off their lists, India's most inhabited city is making a comeback. (The
Independent)


     ·    A Room On, and Below, the Water
     ·    More Luxury Hotels Open in China
     ·    A Ski Spot That's Remote, No Frills and Not for Profit
     ·    E.U. Eases Rules on Liquids on Planes
     ·    Calendar: Coming Events in Florida and Australia


LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            December 2, 2013 Monday

Amazon's Blue-Sky Thinking

BYLINE: ROBERT CYRAN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 404 words



HIGHLIGHT: Drone deliveries seem as overly optimistic as investors&#8217;
expectations of Amazon overall, the author notes. The company&#8217;s market
value has ballooned to $180 billion despite big profits always hovering in the
future.


Amazon is promising yet more jam tomorrow - this time from drone deliveries.
Jeff Bezos, the online retailer's chief executive, expects to be able to use
unmanned aircraft to deliver small packages within a few years. It's a striking
vision, but it seems as overly optimistic as investors' expectations of the
company overall. Amazon's market value has ballooned to $180 billion despite big
profits always hovering in the future.

Drone technology has advanced tremendously over the past decade because of
improvements in software, robotics and networking. The use of these unmanned
vehicles is already common in the military, and cheap, fast and automated
shipping could benefit all kinds of businesses. Mr. Bezos says Amazon could use
drones within four or five years, delivering goods weighing less than five
pounds inside 30 minutes.

It's perhaps fitting that a long-term thinker like Mr. Bezos should be testing
the boundaries of what's possible. But at best it's a very long way off. The
Federal Aviation Administration may start allowing commercial drones to operate
in 2015, but widespread use is likely to come only many years later. Letting
robots fly freely in densely populated areas poses all kinds of safety, security
and privacy questions - never mind logistical challenges and concerns that
hackers or old-fashioned villains might intercept the vehicles or the packages
they carry.

Mr. Bezos has always made clear that he runs Amazon with the goal of rapid
growth while maximizing profit over the long run. Getting everyone to talk about
his company on Cyber Monday, the most important day of the year for online
shopping, will help accomplish the former. Analysts expect Amazon's revenue to
be around $75 billion this year, 23 percent more than last.

But it's still not clear when Amazon will deliver normal, never mind
supernormal, profitability. The company expects that it will roughly break even
again this holiday quarter. Based on estimates compiled by Thomson Reuters,
Amazon trades at a valuation of 165 times the coming 12 months of earnings,
against 15 times for its peer group.

Like a drone delivering trinkets any time soon, that's a triumph of investor
hope over experience.

Robert Cyran is a columnist for Reuters Breakingviews. For more independent
commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.


     ·    In Tax Fight, Amazon Hands Baton to eBay
     ·    In Bitcoin's Orbit: Rival Virtual Currencies Vie for Acceptance


LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            December 2, 2013 Monday

Today's Scuttlebot: South Korea's Romance App and Finland's Other Cellphone
Manufacturer

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 165 words



HIGHLIGHT: Monday&#8217;s highlights from around the web include an app built
only for two people to share messages and photos with each other. Plus, Jolla,
founded by former Nokia engineers, is about to become Finland&#8217;s best known
cellphone maker.


Every day, The New York Times's staff scours the web for interesting and
peculiar items.

Here's what we noticed Monday:

Between, South Korea's Romance App
The New Yorker |  The next act in social: an app built only for two people to
share messages and photos with each other. - Vindu Goel

Finland's Other Cellphone Manufacturer
ZDNet |  Jolla, founded by former Nokia engineers, is about to become Finland's
best known cellphone maker. - Mark Scott

The Greatest Show on Earth
Yahoo News |  Is Jeff Bezos's latest announcement nothing more than a circus act
for attention? - Jenna Wortham

French Court Orders Search Engines to Block Pirated Content
BBC |  A French court has ordered the likes of Google and Microsoft to block
streaming video content from search results. - Mark Scott

And, finally, at least one Twitter user who has presumably been recently
inundated by email promotions has been hit by holiday shopping fatigue:

OK inbox, I get it. It's Cyber Monday.

- Caitlin Kelly (@atotalmonet)2 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 3, 2013 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Amazon Delivers Some Pie In the Sky

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD; Quentin Hardy contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- Hard to believe, but there was once a time when the visionaries
worked for the government. Rebuilding a ruined Europe, putting a man on the
moon, ending poverty, connecting the American interior with highways -- these
were immense tasks undertaken, and often achieved, by bureaucrats.

The wild dreamers these days work for technology companies. Elon Musk, not
content with making the first commercially viable electric car, has a proposal
for a trainlike system that would speed travelers at 600 miles an hour. Google,
hard at work assembling the world's information, has started a company to cheat
death. Mark Zuckerberg has plans to put everyone in the world in touch.

And now Jeff Bezos, Amazon's chief executive, says he is planning to take what
looks like a barbecue grill, attach eight propellers and a basket to it and use
it to deliver small items to people's houses. He sketched a vision where no one
would ever have to get off a hammock for a resupply of Pringles or Milk Duds.

Package delivery by drone is a loopy idea, far-fetched and the subject of
instant mockery on Twitter -- but it is hard to deny its audacity.

''I am blown away by what I see coming out of the private sector these days,''
said Andrew McAfee, co-founder of the Initiative on the Digital Economy at the
M.I.T. Sloan School of Management. ''All the building blocks are in place for
breakthroughs: The Internet goes everywhere. Everyone has a device connected to
the network. And the cost of technology experimentation is so low. We don't need
one single entity with massive resources to deliver these really cool
innovations.''

The announcement by Mr. Bezos on Sunday evening was one of those moments when
the future suddenly seems much closer. But the news also served to emphasize a
less appreciated hallmark of the tech world: its masterful use of public
relations.

The revelation came at the end of a ''60 Minutes'' feature about Amazon and its
preparations for so-called Cyber Monday, the year's most hyped online shopping
day.

''We can do half-hour delivery,'' Mr. Bezos said. He also said the drones could
carry as much as five pounds and could fly 10 miles from the delivery center.
''I don't want anybody to think this is just around the corner,'' he said in an
uncharacteristic note of caution.

Which brought up the immediate question: Why announce it now? Amazon is so
tight-lipped it will not often confirm what happened in the past, like how many
Kindles it has sold. It almost never talks about the future.

On the show, Mr. Bezos dodged a question about whether Amazon would soon unveil
a set-top box. ''I don't want to talk about the future road map of our
devices,'' he said.

Unless, apparently, he did want to.

''Whether this ever amounts to anything, it was definitely a good P.R. move,''
said Tory Patrick, leader of the retail technology practice at Walker Sands, a
consultancy. ''It's Cyber Monday and Amazon is on the brain.''

Beyond that -- beyond Amazon's meteoric stock price, its capacity to bring more
goodies to more people in less time, its ceaseless innovation, its ability to
make other retailers look hapless -- the company is enduring an unusual period
of criticism. Its success is breeding anger.

Amazon warehouse workers are striking in Germany. The French are proposing to
restrain the company with a law that forbids discounting on books. And in
Britain, sending an undercover reporter to an Amazon warehouse is becoming
routine.

The most recent such investigation, which offered an indictment not only of
Amazon but also of the culture that makes it such a success, was published last
weekend in The Guardian.

Her fellow workers at Amazon, Carole Cadwalladr wrote, used to be builders,
hospitality managers, marketing graduates, technicians, carpenters and
electricians.

''They owned their own businesses, and they were made redundant,'' she added.
''Or the business went bust. Or they had a stroke. Or their contract ended. They
are people who had skilled jobs, or professional jobs, or just better-paying
jobs. And now they work for Amazon, earning the minimum wage, and most of them
are grateful to have that.''

In the United States, any resistance is much more muted. But Amazon fought back
hard this fall against a new book, ''The Everything Store'' by Brad Stone,
accusing it of containing an unbalanced depiction of the company as a brutal
place to work.

''The timing is interesting,'' said Sucharita Mulpuru, a Forrester analyst.
''The drones could be a game-changer -- 20 years from now.''

An Amazon web page unveiled immediately after the ''60 Minutes'' broadcast was
much more bold about the drone delivery service, which is called Prime Air.
''We'll be ready to enter commercial operations as soon as the necessary
regulations are in place,'' Amazon promised.

That, it said, meant 2015, when the Federal Aviation Administration will issue
new rules for commercial drones. The F.A.A. needed a year merely to prepare its
74-page plan for the integration of drones into the national airspace. Specific
details on putting those rules into effect, the agency said when it released the
plan last month, are still to come.

Senator Edward J. Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat and member of the Commerce,
Science and Transportation Committee, said he was dissatisfied with the F.A.A.
plan because he felt it had scant privacy protections. ''Clear rules must be set
that protect the privacy and safety of the public,'' he said in a statement on
Monday.

Jaron Lanier, a technology skeptic who wrote ''You Are Not a Gadget,'' said the
drones would encourage the sort of divisions that undermine society.

''I can easily picture a scenario where drones deliver things to upscale
tech-savvy customers,'' he said. ''But note the implication, whether intended or
not, that working-class truck drivers will no longer transgress geographic class
lines. It's also hard to imagine delivery drones flying unmolested in restive
working-class or poor areas. They'd become skeet or be 'occupied,' depending on
the nature of the neighborhood.''

Mr. McAfee, co-author of ''The Second Machine Age: Work, Progress and Prosperity
in a Time of Brilliant Technologies,'' said he saw more benefits. ''Amazon
drives a big truck to the outskirts of town, unloads the drones, and they go run
a bunch of final drops,'' he said. ''The roads will be less crowded. You'll have
less pollution.''

Ms. Patrick, the consultant, said there was no question of what people would
want.

''If Amazon can pull this off, people will say, 'This is awesome, I can get
toilet paper in 30 minutes.' And they will.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/12/03/technology/amazon-delivers-some-pie-in-the-sky
.html

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amazon says its proposed cargo drone has a 10-mile range.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY AMAZON, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (B2)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                            December 3, 2013 Tuesday

Today in Small Business: Pop-Up Stores

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 373 words



HIGHLIGHT: A Purple Heart recipient becomes an entrepreneur. How to use
Instagram to increase sales. Will the holidays be happy?


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.

The Economy


     ·    SurePayroll is predicting a surprisingly happy end to 2013 for Main
          Street businesses.
     ·    A factory-activity gauge rises to a two-and-a-half-year high.
     ·    Automakers entered their year-end sales push last month with the most
          cars and trucks on dealer lots in eight years.
     ·    Blogger sentiment in December remained bullish.
     ·    Developers increased construction spending in October at the fastest
          pace in more than four years, propelled by a surge in government
          projects.


Customer Service


     ·    Michael Santoli explains what Jeff Bezos was really delivering with
          his talk of drones in what amounted to "a long corporate promotional
          video" on "60 Minutes": "The real point of Bezos's expert playing of
          the network-media game was to drive home his constant and zealously
          emphasized point about Amazon's mission: We do everything to make
          products cheaper, and life easier, for our customers."
     ·    Shake Shack's chief executive says that "if you're hungry for success,
          you need to be on your customer's side."
     ·    Here is how to increase prices without losing customers.


Retail


     ·    More pop-up stores are appearing for the holidays, as small-business
          owners increasingly use them as promotional tools and test labs.
     ·    Here are eight reasons Cyber Monday is better than Black Friday.


Management


     ·    A report on how small-business owners decide it's time to step aside.


Entrepreneurship


     ·    A Purple Heart recipient shares his story of how he went from being a
          Delta Force soldier to being a father, an educator and an
          entrepreneur.


Finance


     ·    Kanye West is struggling to find funding for a new venture.


Social Media


     ·    Here's how one retailer is using Instagram to increase sales.
     ·    And here's how to use Reddit to increase website traffic.
     ·    Young people are flocking to Twitter.


Around the Country


     ·    Colorado gets $5.7 million from a federal small-business credit
          initiative.


Around the World


     ·    A hookah ban is a blow to a small business in Alberta, Canada.


Health Care


     ·    HealthCare.gov finally worksfor some.


Taxes


     ·    Here are a few tips for lowering your tax bill before the year's over.


Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., a consulting firm that
helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on
Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                            December 3, 2013 Tuesday

Sleep and the City

BYLINE: CHARU SURI

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 254 words



HIGHLIGHT: WestHouse, a hotel scheduled to open in New York in late December, is
designed to help guests get a good night&#8217;s rest.


Travelers looking for a good night's rest in a city that never sleeps can
customize their experience at WestHouse, a luxury boutique hotel scheduled to
open in late December.

Located on West 55th Street in New York City, the Art Deco-style hotel was
designed by Jeffrey Beers International. All 172 rooms, including the
1,500-square-foot Presidential Suite, have plush beds with 400-thread-count
linens. Three Terrace suites come with bespoke beds by Sleep Studio, which have
customizable mattress support for various body zones.

For an additional charge, guests can request morning-, noon- and evening-scented
candles as well as organic herbal teas to help them unwind. If these don't help
with shut-eye, thick sleep masks, artisanal aromatherapy oils and sleep-inducing
chocolates (these are complimentary) could do the trick.

Suite guests can take home a candle designed by DayNa Decker, with notes of oud
and vetiver and a wooden wick that imitates the sound of a soft, crackling
fireplace when lighted, so "pleasant dreams can continue after checkout," said
the general manager Karla Keskin.

The idea of a sleep-centric hotel in New York  is not new: the Benjamin is known
for its Sleep Concierge, and the Affinia Manhattan has pillows with ultra-thin
speakers for some smartphone lullaby time.

Room rates at WestHouse start at $499.


     ·    With a Hotel Stay, a Little Comedy, a Little More Sleep
     ·    A Room On, and Below, the Water
     ·    More Luxury Hotels Open in China
     ·    In Beverly Hills, Suites Celebrate a Milestone
     ·    An Early Start for Cyber Deals


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            December 3, 2013 Tuesday

R.B.S. to Compensate Card Holders After Online Glitch

BYLINE: CHAD BRAY

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 406 words



HIGHLIGHT: A systems error occurred for some three hours, leaving customers
unable to use their cards on &#8220;Cyber Monday.&#8221;


LONDON - The Royal Bank of Scotland, bailed out by the British government five
years ago, was forced to apologize Tuesday after a systems crash left millions
of its customers unable to pay with their debit or credit cards for several
hours on Monday evening.

The systems error occurred as Britons headed home from work on Monday, leaving
them unable to buy groceries or use their cards on one of the biggest online
shopping days of the year, known as "Cyber Monday."

Monday evening, R.B.S. posted on its Twitter feed that it was aware of
"technical issues," which ultimately led to some customers being unable to
conduct card transactions or access its online banking website. The company
reported via its Twitter feed about three hours later that its systems were
coming back online.

"We would like to apologize to our customers," R.B.S. said in a statement on
Tuesday, announcing that its systems were fully working. "If anyone has been
left out of pocket as a result of these systems problems, we will put this
right."

The technical glitch is another embarrassment for the bank, which remains
majority owned by the British government.

Last week, R.B.S. said it would hire the law firm Clifford Chance to
independently examine its lending practices after it was criticized in two
reports, including one that claimed it had forced some business clients into
serious financial difficulties.

A report by British businessman and government adviser Lawrence Tomlinson
claimed last week that the bank had forced some business clients unnecessarily
into default so it could charge certain fees and take over assets at a discount.

Andrew Large, a former Bank of England deputy governor, said in a separate
report released last week that the bank had made progress since the 2008
financial crisis but was not doing enough to lend to small and midsize
businesses.

The government passed along the findings of Mr. Tomlinson's report to the
Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority, two of
Britain's financial regulators.

R.B.S. received more than 45 billion pounds, or about $73.7 billion, during the
financial crisis five years ago and George Osborne, the chancellor of the
Exchequer, wants to begin selling the government's 81 percent stake in the near
future.

All this comes as Ross McEwan, who took over as R.B.S.'s new chief executive in
October, has vowed to change the bank's culture and win back the trust of its
customers.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            December 3, 2013 Tuesday

Morning Agenda: A Strategist's Second Act

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1662 words



HIGHLIGHT: J. Tomilson Hill, a well-known deal maker in the 1980s, has
reinvented himself. | A former SAC analyst told a jury he was pressured to
obtain insider data. | Peter Chernin has turned to Japanese anime for his latest
investment. | Apple bought a research firm that could help it better understand
what people are talking about on social media.


J. Tomilson Hill, a well-known Wall Street deal maker in the 1980s who had a
role in the book "Barbarians at the Gate," has reinvented himself by applying
his deal-making skills to a different business, Randall Smith reports in
DealBook. Though he was ousted as co-chief executive of Lehman Brothers in 1993,
he has recently gained prominence running the hedge-fund-of-funds business at
the Blackstone Group, where he is the third highest-paid executive officer.

Since 2000, Mr. Hill has taken the hedge-fund-of-funds business from barely a
blip on the radar screen to the No. 1 spot, with $53 billion in assets, Mr.
Smith reports. At a presentation for analysts in May 2012, Mr. Hill described
his business as "the largest investor in hedge funds in the world." Mr. Smith
writes: "Mr. Hill has succeeded not by posting titanic returns but by offering
the funds to institutions like public pension funds as a safer alternative to
stocks without as much volatility. Its $8 billion flagship Blackstone Partners
Offshore Fund returned 6.3 percent annually from 2000 through 2012, according a
Blackstone presentation in mid-2013 obtained from another investor.

"This year, Blackstone has focused on the market for individual investors who
may want such hedge fund vehicles in their portfolios. In August, it started a
$1 billion mutual fund for wealthy clients of Fidelity Investments. Institutions
have 25 percent of their assets in alternatives to stocks and bonds, like
private equity, hedge funds and real estate, but individuals have only 2
percent, which Blackstone's president, Hamilton E. James, says 'shows you the
massive potential that retail has.'"

WITNESS TELLS OF PRESSURE FROM SAC TRADER TO GET INSIDER DATA  |  "Between 2007
and 2009, Jon Horvath developed a regular routine as a trader at SAC Capital
Advisors: obtaining confidential information about Dell Inc.'s financial results
well before the computer company's quarterly disclosures," DealBook's Michael J.
de la Merced reports. Those efforts, Mr. Horvath told a jury on Monday in a
Manhattan federal district courtroom, were made with the full knowledge of his
boss, Michael S. Steinberg.

"During his third day of testimony as a prosecution witness in Mr. Steinberg's
insider trading trial, Mr. Horvath described repeatedly gleaning early peeks
into Dell's sales. Knowing that information well before the market gave SAC an
edge in betting against the company's stock. That helped the hedge fund,
particularly in the summer of 2008," Mr. de la Merced writes. "The lengthy
testimony is meant to buttress federal prosecutors' contentions that Mr.
Steinberg repeatedly encouraged Mr. Horvath to cross legal lines in pursuit of
information with an edge."

CHERNIN INVESTS IN ANIME  |
Peter Chernin, the former News Corporation executive who now runs his own media
investment firm, has invested in high-flying start-ups like Pandora, Tumblr and
Flipboard. For his latest investment, he has turned to Japanese anime,
DealBook's David Gelles reports. On Monday, the Chernin Group acquired a
majority stake in Crunchyroll, a San Francisco-based company that streams anime
over the Internet. Terms of the deal were not announced, but a person briefed on
the matter said the investment was worth a little less than $100 million.

"This deal is about two things," Mr. Chernin said in an interview. "They have
built an extremely impressive anime offering. Hard-core anime fans love it. At
the same time, they deserve credit for building a great subscription video
platform."

ON THE AGENDA  |
The Brixmor Property Group reports earnings after the market closes. Karen Katz,
chief executive of the Neiman Marcus Group, is on CNBC at 10:10 a.m. The
bankruptcy lawyer Harvey R. Miller is on Bloomberg TV at 11:30 a.m.

APPLE BUYS A SOCIAL MEDIA ANALYTICS FIRM  | Apple, a company not known for being
social, confirmed on Monday that it had bought Topsy Labs, a research firm that
could help Apple better understand what people are talking about on social media
networks like Twitter, Brian X. Chen and Vindu Goel report in The New York
Times.

"Topsy focuses on analyzing the half a billion messages sent over Twitter every
day. The company has indexed every tweet ever sent and has made them searchable,
much like Google does for the web. The company also helps clients analyze tweets
for various business trends," Mr. Chen and Mr. Goel write. "While Apple has
built some of its software to work with Twitter's service, it remained unclear
why a hardware maker like Apple would be interested in Topsy. Apple was not
giving any clues."

 |  Contact: @williamalden | E-mail

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

Mergers & Acquisitions »

Pearson to Buy English-Language Education Firm in Brazil  |  Pearson has agreed
to buy Grupo Multi of Brazil, an English-language training company, for about
440 million pounds ($721 million), Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS

Dow Chemical Plans to Shed $5 Billion of Assets  |  The possible sale or spinoff
of assets - including chlorine production facilities and epoxy businesses - is
the latest move by a big industrial company to try to streamline itself.
DealBook »

New F.C.C. Chief Pledges to Protect Competition  |  The New York Times reports:
"The chairman of the Federal Communications Commission said on Monday that he
intended to aggressively promote and protect competition in the
telecommunications industry, including making sure that smaller mobile phone
companies have a reasonable chance of buying public airwaves in auctions next
year." NEW YORK TIMES

Rohatyn Group Closes Acquisition of Citi Unit  |  The Rohatyn Group announced it
had completed its acquisition of Citi Venture Capital International, a private
equity investment firm focused on emerging markets. NEWS RELEASE

INVESTMENT BANKING »

Goldman and JPMorgan Satisfy Fed With Capital Plans  |  On Monday, the two banks
effectively put concerns of the Federal Reserve behind them after the regulator
said it did not object to new capital plans that the firms had resubmitted.
DealBook »

R.B.S. to Compensate Card Holders After Online Error  |  A systems error left
customers unable to use their credit and debit cards for about three hours on
Cyber Monday.  DealBook »

Lloyds Bank Names New Chairman  |  Norman Blackwell, a current director of the
Lloyds Banking Group, will become its chairman next year, succeeding Winfried
Bischoff. DealBook »

UBS to Buy Back Bonds to Reduce Balance Sheet and Expenses  |  The Swiss bank
said it expected to incur a small loss on the buyback, but believed that would
be offset by a decrease in its future interest expense. DealBook »

PRIVATE EQUITY »

Sale to NCR Is a Quick, Profitable Flip for a Private Equity Firm  |  By selling
Digital Insight for $1.65 billion after buying it 124 days earlier for $1.025
billion, Thoma Bravo appears to be an incredibly savvy buyer and seller.
DealBook »

HEDGE FUNDS »

Putting Hedge Fund Performance in Context  |  Bloomberg Businessweek writes:
"Hedge funds overall were up around 6 percent as of the end of September,
according to a recent report by Goldman Sachs, which tracks the performance of
783 different funds. Under normal circumstances, that might not be so bad, but
it comes during a year when stock market indices have mostly shot upwards."
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK

I.P.O./OFFERINGS »

Research Reports Throw Some Cold Water on Twitter  |  Reuters reports: "Twitter
Inc. shares slipped on Monday after some of the five lead underwriters of its
initial public offering said the social media firm may not achieve Facebook-like
scale and its stock may not rise much higher." REUTERS

VENTURE CAPITAL »

From Amazon, a Masterful Public Relations Move  |  "Package delivery by drone is
a loopy idea, far-fetched and the subject of instant mockery on Twitter - but it
is hard to deny its audacity," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES

Amazon's Blue-Sky Thinking  |  Drone deliveries seem as overly optimistic as
investors' expectations of Amazon overall, Robert Cyran of Reuters Breakingviews
writes. The company's market value has ballooned to $180 billion, even though
big profits are always hovering in the future. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

New York Subpoenas Websites in an Effort to Curb Payday Lenders  |  The move
targeted 16 so-called lead generator websites, which sell reams of consumer data
to payday lenders. DealBook »

At Cravath, Bonuses Are Said to Be Flat This Year  |  The law firm Cravath,
Swaine & Moore "plans to pay its associate attorneys the same end-of-year
bonuses it paid in 2012, reflecting a cautious mode after a year in which many
big law firms are on track to make only modest revenue gains," The Wall Street
Journal reports, citing an internal memo. WALL STREET JOURNAL

Criminal Trial Ordered for EADS Shareholders  |  The New York Times reports: "A
French court on Monday ordered the German carmaker Daimler and the French media
conglomerate Lagardère to face a criminal trial on allegations of insider
trading in the 2006 sale of shares in the European aerospace and defense group
EADS." NEW YORK TIMES

European Watchdog Warns of Possible Action Against Ratings Agencies  |  The
European Securities and Markets Authority says its investigation into Fitch,
Moody's and Standard & Poor's has revealed issues in sovereign rating processes.
DealBook »

Bank of America Reaches Settlement With Freddie Mac  |  The bank will pay
Freddie Mac $404 million to settle all residential mortgage repurchase
agreements and other claims related to loans sold from 2000 to 2009. DealBook »

Fines, Without Explaining How They Were Calculated  |  JPMorgan Chase's
settlements with regulators are good examples of the significant payments
required as part of the atonement for misdeeds, Peter J. Henning writes in the
White Collar Watch column. But how did the penalties end up to be such nice
round figures? DealBook »

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            December 3, 2013 Tuesday

A Strategist, Reinvented

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1662 words



HIGHLIGHT: J. Tomilson Hill, a well-known deal maker in the 1980s, has
reinvented himself. | A former SAC analyst told a jury he was pressured to
obtain insider data. | Peter Chernin has turned to Japanese anime for his latest
investment. | Apple bought a research firm that could help it better understand
what people are talking about on social media.


J. Tomilson Hill, a well-known Wall Street deal maker in the 1980s who had a
role in the book "Barbarians at the Gate," has reinvented himself by applying
his deal-making skills to a different business, Randall Smith reports in
DealBook. Though he was ousted as co-chief executive of Lehman Brothers in 1993,
he has recently gained prominence running the hedge-fund-of-funds business at
the Blackstone Group, where he is the third highest-paid executive officer.

Since 2000, Mr. Hill has taken the hedge-fund-of-funds business from barely a
blip on the radar screen to the No. 1 spot, with $53 billion in assets, Mr.
Smith reports. At a presentation for analysts in May 2012, Mr. Hill described
his business as "the largest investor in hedge funds in the world." Mr. Smith
writes: "Mr. Hill has succeeded not by posting titanic returns but by offering
the funds to institutions like public pension funds as a safer alternative to
stocks without as much volatility. Its $8 billion flagship Blackstone Partners
Offshore Fund returned 6.3 percent annually from 2000 through 2012, according a
Blackstone presentation in mid-2013 obtained from another investor.

"This year, Blackstone has focused on the market for individual investors who
may want such hedge fund vehicles in their portfolios. In August, it started a
$1 billion mutual fund for wealthy clients of Fidelity Investments. Institutions
have 25 percent of their assets in alternatives to stocks and bonds, like
private equity, hedge funds and real estate, but individuals have only 2
percent, which Blackstone's president, Hamilton E. James, says 'shows you the
massive potential that retail has.'"

WITNESS TELLS OF PRESSURE FROM SAC TRADER TO GET INSIDER DATA  |  "Between 2007
and 2009, Jon Horvath developed a regular routine as a trader at SAC Capital
Advisors: obtaining confidential information about Dell Inc.'s financial results
well before the computer company's quarterly disclosures," DealBook's Michael J.
de la Merced reports. Those efforts, Mr. Horvath told a jury on Monday in a
Manhattan federal district courtroom, were made with the full knowledge of his
boss, Michael S. Steinberg.

"During his third day of testimony as a prosecution witness in Mr. Steinberg's
insider trading trial, Mr. Horvath described repeatedly gleaning early peeks
into Dell's sales. Knowing that information well before the market gave SAC an
edge in betting against the company's stock. That helped the hedge fund,
particularly in the summer of 2008," Mr. de la Merced writes. "The lengthy
testimony is meant to buttress federal prosecutors' contentions that Mr.
Steinberg repeatedly encouraged Mr. Horvath to cross legal lines in pursuit of
information with an edge."

CHERNIN INVESTS IN ANIME  |
Peter Chernin, the former News Corporation executive who now runs his own media
investment firm, has invested in high-flying start-ups like Pandora, Tumblr and
Flipboard. For his latest investment, he has turned to Japanese anime,
DealBook's David Gelles reports. On Monday, the Chernin Group acquired a
majority stake in Crunchyroll, a San Francisco-based company that streams anime
over the Internet. Terms of the deal were not announced, but a person briefed on
the matter said the investment was worth a little less than $100 million.

"This deal is about two things," Mr. Chernin said in an interview. "They have
built an extremely impressive anime offering. Hard-core anime fans love it. At
the same time, they deserve credit for building a great subscription video
platform."

ON THE AGENDA  |
The Brixmor Property Group reports earnings after the market closes. Karen Katz,
chief executive of the Neiman Marcus Group, is on CNBC at 10:10 a.m. The
bankruptcy lawyer Harvey R. Miller is on Bloomberg TV at 11:30 a.m.

APPLE BUYS A SOCIAL MEDIA ANALYTICS FIRM  | Apple, a company not known for being
social, confirmed on Monday that it had bought Topsy Labs, a research firm that
could help Apple better understand what people are talking about on social media
networks like Twitter, Brian X. Chen and Vindu Goel report in The New York
Times.

"Topsy focuses on analyzing the half a billion messages sent over Twitter every
day. The company has indexed every tweet ever sent and has made them searchable,
much like Google does for the web. The company also helps clients analyze tweets
for various business trends," Mr. Chen and Mr. Goel write. "While Apple has
built some of its software to work with Twitter's service, it remained unclear
why a hardware maker like Apple would be interested in Topsy. Apple was not
giving any clues."

 |  Contact: @williamalden | E-mail

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

Mergers & Acquisitions »

Pearson to Buy English-Language Education Firm in Brazil  |  Pearson has agreed
to buy Grupo Multi of Brazil, an English-language training company, for about
440 million pounds ($721 million), Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS

Dow Chemical Plans to Shed $5 Billion of Assets  |  The possible sale or spinoff
of assets - including chlorine production facilities and epoxy businesses - is
the latest move by a big industrial company to try to streamline itself.
DealBook »

New F.C.C. Chief Pledges to Protect Competition  |  The New York Times reports:
"The chairman of the Federal Communications Commission said on Monday that he
intended to aggressively promote and protect competition in the
telecommunications industry, including making sure that smaller mobile phone
companies have a reasonable chance of buying public airwaves in auctions next
year." NEW YORK TIMES

Rohatyn Group Closes Acquisition of Citi Unit  |  The Rohatyn Group announced it
had completed its acquisition of Citi Venture Capital International, a private
equity investment firm focused on emerging markets. NEWS RELEASE

INVESTMENT BANKING »

Goldman and JPMorgan Satisfy Fed With Capital Plans  |  On Monday, the two banks
effectively put concerns of the Federal Reserve behind them after the regulator
said it did not object to new capital plans that the firms had resubmitted.
DealBook »

R.B.S. to Compensate Card Holders After Online Error  |  A systems error left
customers unable to use their credit and debit cards for about three hours on
Cyber Monday.  DealBook »

Lloyds Bank Names New Chairman  |  Norman Blackwell, a current director of the
Lloyds Banking Group, will become its chairman next year, succeeding Winfried
Bischoff. DealBook »

UBS to Buy Back Bonds to Reduce Balance Sheet and Expenses  |  The Swiss bank
said it expected to incur a small loss on the buyback, but believed that would
be offset by a decrease in its future interest expense. DealBook »

PRIVATE EQUITY »

Sale to NCR Is a Quick, Profitable Flip for a Private Equity Firm  |  By selling
Digital Insight for $1.65 billion after buying it 124 days earlier for $1.025
billion, Thoma Bravo appears to be an incredibly savvy buyer and seller.
DealBook »

HEDGE FUNDS »

Putting Hedge Fund Performance in Context  |  Bloomberg Businessweek writes:
"Hedge funds overall were up around 6 percent as of the end of September,
according to a recent report by Goldman Sachs, which tracks the performance of
783 different funds. Under normal circumstances, that might not be so bad, but
it comes during a year when stock market indices have mostly shot upwards."
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK

I.P.O./OFFERINGS »

Research Reports Throw Some Cold Water on Twitter  |  Reuters reports: "Twitter
Inc. shares slipped on Monday after some of the five lead underwriters of its
initial public offering said the social media firm may not achieve Facebook-like
scale and its stock may not rise much higher." REUTERS

VENTURE CAPITAL »

From Amazon, a Masterful Public Relations Move  |  "Package delivery by drone is
a loopy idea, far-fetched and the subject of instant mockery on Twitter - but it
is hard to deny its audacity," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES

Amazon's Blue-Sky Thinking  |  Drone deliveries seem as overly optimistic as
investors' expectations of Amazon overall, Robert Cyran of Reuters Breakingviews
writes. The company's market value has ballooned to $180 billion, even though
big profits are always hovering in the future. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

New York Subpoenas Websites in an Effort to Curb Payday Lenders  |  The move
targeted 16 so-called lead generator websites, which sell reams of consumer data
to payday lenders. DealBook »

At Cravath, Bonuses Are Said to Be Flat This Year  |  The law firm Cravath,
Swaine & Moore "plans to pay its associate attorneys the same end-of-year
bonuses it paid in 2012, reflecting a cautious mode after a year in which many
big law firms are on track to make only modest revenue gains," The Wall Street
Journal reports, citing an internal memo. WALL STREET JOURNAL

Criminal Trial Ordered for EADS Shareholders  |  The New York Times reports: "A
French court on Monday ordered the German carmaker Daimler and the French media
conglomerate Lagardère to face a criminal trial on allegations of insider
trading in the 2006 sale of shares in the European aerospace and defense group
EADS." NEW YORK TIMES

European Watchdog Warns of Possible Action Against Ratings Agencies  |  The
European Securities and Markets Authority says its investigation into Fitch,
Moody's and Standard & Poor's has revealed issues in sovereign rating processes.
DealBook »

Bank of America Reaches Settlement With Freddie Mac  |  The bank will pay
Freddie Mac $404 million to settle all residential mortgage repurchase
agreements and other claims related to loans sold from 2000 to 2009. DealBook »

Fines, Without Explaining How They Were Calculated  |  JPMorgan Chase's
settlements with regulators are good examples of the significant payments
required as part of the atonement for misdeeds, Peter J. Henning writes in the
White Collar Watch column. But how did the penalties end up to be such nice
round figures? DealBook »

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 4, 2013 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mommy, The Drone's Here!

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 876 words


WASHINGTON -- The novelty of flying cars never materialized. But flying novels
are right around the corner.

If you aren't nervous enough reading about 3-D printers spitting out handguns or
Google robots with Android phones, imagine the skies thick with crisscrossing
tiny drones.

''I know this looks like science fiction. It's not,'' Jeff Bezos told Charlie
Rose on ''60 Minutes'' Sunday, unveiling his octocopter drones.

The Amazon founder is optimistic that the fleet of miniature robot helicopters
clutching plastic containers will be ready to follow GPS coordinates within a
radius of 10 miles and zip around the country providing half-hour delivery of
packages of up to 5 pounds -- 86 percent of Amazon's stock -- just as soon as
the F.A.A. approves.

''Wow!'' Rose said, absorbing the wackiness of it all.

The futuristic Pony Express to deliver pony-print coats and other Amazon goodies
will be ''fun,'' Bezos said, and won't start until they have ''all the systems
you need to say, 'Look, this thing can't land on somebody's head while they're
walking around their neighborhood.' ''

So if they can't land on my head, why do they make my head hurt? Maybe because
they are redolent of President Obama's unhealthy attachment to lethal drones,
which are killing too many innocents in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and our spy
agencies' unhealthy attachment to indiscriminate surveillance.

Or maybe they recall that eerie ''Twilight Zone'' episode where a Brobdingnagian
Agnes Moorehead fends off tiny spaceships with a big wooden stirrer -- even
though these flying machines would be dropping off the housewares.

Or maybe it's because after ''60 Minutes,'' ''Homeland'' featured a story line
about a drone both faulty and morally agnostic. The White House chief of staff,
wanting to cover up a bolloxed-up covert operation on the Iraq-Iran border,
suggested directing the drone to finish off its own agent, Brody.

''I will not order a strike on our own men,'' the acting C.I.A. chief, played by
Mandy Patinkin, replied sternly. ''Hang it up.''

Or maybe I am leery that Bezos, who is also dabbling in space tourism, was
looking for a Cyber Monday p.r. coup by playing to Americans' ranker instincts,
hooking our instant gratification society on ever more instant gratification. Do
we really need that argyle sweater plopped in our hands in half an hour as
opposed to the next day? What would Pope Francis say?

And won't all the other alpha moguls want their own drone fleets? Howard Schultz
will want to drop your half-caf, bone-dry, ristretto, venti, four-pump,
sugar-free, cinnamon dolce, soy, skinny Starbucks latte on the front step at 7
a.m., and Tim Cook will want to deliver the latest Apple toys the soonest, and
Disney's Robert Iger will want his drones gussied up like Mary Poppins.

It will be interesting to watch The Washington Post cover new owner Bezos as he
takes on the F.A.A. over drone regulations. The agency is drafting rules to let
larger commercial drones and airlines share the sky, with an eye toward issuing
licenses in 2015, but a handful of states are passing restrictions of their own.

Lobbying for private unmanned drones, Bezos will be aligned with the Motion
Picture Association of America, which is working to get directors the right to
use drones for aerial shots.

It's a business taking flight. Experts say there may be as many as 30,000
unmanned private and government drones flying in this country by 2020,
ratcheting drones into a $90 billion industry, generating 100,000 jobs. A degree
in drone management can't be far off.

Politico writes that the logistics of drone delivery will be dizzying: ''It's
easy enough to drop a package on someone's front steps, but what if the person
lives in a fifth-floor apartment? Amazon wants to launch the service in large
urban areas -- could a drone collide with a skyscraper?''

Drones are less restricted abroad. Irish filmmaker Caroline Campbell used one to
shoot film of Google and Facebook offices in Dublin, telling Wired, ''We feel
that it is no more intrusive than something like Google Street View.''

Journalists, police and paparazzi jumped on the drone trend. One photographer
dispatched a drone over Tina Turner's Lake Zurich estate to snap shots of her
wedding last summer -- before police ordered it grounded.

According to USA Today on Tuesday, all sorts of American businesses are eluding
drone restrictions: real estate representatives are getting video of luxury
properties; photographers are collecting footage of Hawaiian surfers; Western
farmers are monitoring their land; Sonoma vintners are checking on how their
grapes are faring. As Rem Rieder wryly noted in that paper, Bezos may eventually
let his drones help with home delivery of The Washington Post, ''but it's bad
news for kids on bikes.''

Law enforcement agencies are eager to get drones patrolling the beat. And The
Wrap reported that in the upcoming Sony remake of ''RoboCop,'' Samuel L.
Jackson's character, a spokesman for a multinational conglomerate that has to
manufacture a special RoboCop with a conscience for America (still traumatized
by ''The Terminator,'' no doubt) scolds Americans for being ''robophobic.''

Of course, for the robophopic, there is already a way to get goods almost
immediately: Go to the store.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/12/04/opinion/dowd-mommy-the-drones-here.html

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                           December 4, 2013 Wednesday

A New Artisan Trail in Virginia

BYLINE: DIANE DANIEL

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 226 words



HIGHLIGHT: The O Shenandoah County Artisan Trail includes agritourism farms, a
potter&#8217;s studio and a restaurant serving vegetarian and vegan dishes.


Arts, food and farm lovers can explore 75 stops in Shenandoah County, Va., along
the new O Shenandoah County Artisan Trail. The easily accessible region, part of
the mountainous Shenandoah Valley, flanks Interstate 81 on both sides.

Trail participants range from artisan studios and agritourism farms to
restaurants and lodging. All must be independent and locally owned and operated,
and, in the case of restaurants, must feature locally or regionally sourced
ingredients, said Jenna French, the director of tourism and marketing for
Shenandoah County.

Stops include Posey Thisisit Llamas in Toms Brook, where visitors can sign up
for tours of the farm and shop for llama yarn and products. In Woodstock, the
potter Kary Haun opens her log-house studio by appointment. And when it's time
to refuel, Cristina's Cafe in Strasburg serves up vegetarian, vegan and other
locally sourced dishes.

Visitors can access the O Shenandoah County Artisan Trail, the fifth trail
aligned with the Artisans Center of Virginia, at
www.artisanscenterofvirginia.org, or obtain a copy at Virginia Welcome Centers
and tourism offices, or from Shenandoah County Tourism, at 540-459-6227.


     ·    A Showcase for Sustainable Food
     ·    A Celebration of Fermentation
     ·    Q&A: Holiday Vacation for a Family of Four
     ·    Walkabout: Mishaps in Pet Travel; Cyber Monday Travel Deals
     ·    A Room On, and Below, the Water


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                           December 4, 2013 Wednesday

Today in Small Business: Remember Groupon?

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 486 words



HIGHLIGHT: Small-business borrowing and hiring are both up. Walmart&#8217;s
hottest item. What are the most ridiculous things your employees have tried to
expense?


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.

The Economy


     ·    Groupon has its biggest holiday weekend ever.
     ·    Driven by mobile devices, Cyber Monday spending was up 16 percent over
          last year.
     ·    A report shows that housing prices were up 12.5 percent year-over-year
          in October.
     ·    Auto sales rose in November.
     ·    Small-business borrowing hits a six-year high. And small businesses
          created 102,000 jobs in November.
     ·    Media and entertainment executives have turned more bullish.
     ·    James Pethokoukis says the economy may be doing better than we think.


Management


     ·    Belle Beth Cooper looks at the science of creativity and explores how
          to harness your brain to come up with great ideas.
     ·    An author and speaker encourages you to brag about your failures.


Employees


     ·    Here are 25 ridiculous things employees have tried to expense.
     ·    A new report finds that 55 percent of business owners plan to give
          their employees a bonus this year.


Social Media


     ·    John Jantsch shares how he made Twitter infinitely more useful by
          editing his follows "down to a number I could manage."


Retail


     ·    The hottest item from Walmart's Black Friday sales this year was a
          29-cent washcloth.
     ·    National retailers generally do not consider small businesses to be
          major competitors, but a new report says they should.
     ·    This is how to optimize your e-commerce website for holiday shoppers.


Customer Service


     ·    Ty Montague says that Amazon's drone announcement was "a stroke of
          genius," but the Olive Garden's decision to sell hamburgers was a
          mistake.
     ·    Now UPS is experimenting with delivery drones.
     ·    If you're afraid that Amazon will crush your small business, Jeff
          Bezos has some advice: "Complaining is not a strategy."
     ·    Delta Airlines quietly bumps an entire flight for a college basketball
          team.


Around the Country


     ·    Here's a list of the top L.G.B.T.-owned businesses in Philadelphia.
     ·    Pittsburgh welcomes its first new distillery since prohibition.
     ·    Truckers will now pay $102 to cross the George Washington Bridge into
          New York.
     ·    A "Christmas Story" is played out for real on a New York subway.
     ·    A judge says Detroit can file for bankruptcy and rules that pension
          benefits owed to public employees aren't necessarily protected.
     ·    A New Hampshire factory owner is held accountable for a blast that
          killed two workers.


Around the World


     ·    These are the 23 most corrupt countries in the world.
     ·    China's currency is now the second most used in trade finance,
          overtaking the euro.


Technology


     ·    Philadelphia is the most active city government on GitHub, a developer
          platform.
     ·    A start-up develops an app to make you happier.


Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., a consulting firm that
helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on
Twitter.


     ·    Today in Small Business: Gloomy Numbers
     ·    What Have You Seen Businesses Doing to Get Customers in the Door?
     ·    Today in Small Business: 12 Angry Women
     ·    Never Mind. I'll Find Someone Else.
     ·    Hiring to Carry Out Tasks Vs. Hiring to Achieve Goals


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                           December 4, 2013 Wednesday

Jean-Michel Cousteau Designs a New Ritz Kids Program

BYLINE: SHIVANI VORA

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 377 words



HIGHLIGHT: A children&#8217;s program at Ritz-Carlton hotels has been created by
Jean-Michel Cousteau and will emphasize learning about land, water, culture and
environmental responsibility.


The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company said Wednesday that it had revamped its Ritz Kids
program, designed for children between the ages of 4 and 12, in its 80 hotels
around the world.

Jean-Michel Cousteau's Ocean Futures Society created the new program for the
Ritz and based it on four themes: water; which emphasizes the importance of sea
life; land, which encourages exploration; environmental responsibility, which is
focused on the health of the planet; and culture indigenous to the area, which
covers music, customs, history and food.

Each property will offer between three and 12 activities lasting from 90 minutes
to three hours, but the experience begins at check-in with a welcome kit that
has a scavenger hunt and activity book and an in-room amenity that goes beyond
the standard milk and cookies: recycled colored pencils, a gardening kit or a
magnifying glass with tweezers.

Mr. Cousteau said in a phone interview that he designed the program based on his
personal experience of traveling with his two children, now grown, when they
were younger.

"I know that kids get bored easily and need to be occupied when they're on the
road, so I wanted to give them options that I tried to have for my kids where
they actually learn something," he said. "The point is  for them to be engaged
not as spectators but by actual interaction."

Examples include "What Good Is a Tree?" at the Lake Tahoe property, where kids
learn about different kinds of trees and the animal life that depends on them
and then either stay outside or return to the hotel to read "The Lorax" and/or
"The Giving Tree" and play games that illustrate the importance of trees.

Other options include "Water Wows" at Sanya in China, where young guests can
experiment with different properties of water, "Create a Culture" in Abu Dhabi
where children  are encouraged to appreciate cultural diversity and create their
own unique culture, and "Something's Fishy" in San Juan and Orlando where kids
play games to learn about various types of fish in the area.

Staff members are trained in Mr. Cousteau's curriculum; the programs average $75
each.


     ·    40 Winks More, Jeeves
     ·    A Room On, and Below, the Water
     ·    More Luxury Hotels Open in China
     ·    In Beverly Hills, Suites Celebrate a Milestone
     ·    An Early Start for Cyber Deals


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                           December 5, 2013 Thursday

At the Broadmoor, Free Lessons in Tango and Tennis

BYLINE: SHIVANI VORA

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 183 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Broadmoor in Colorado is offering a range of complimentary
activities, including photography lessons and a mixology course.


The Broadmoor, the 744-room, 3,000-acre resort in Colorado Springs,  recently
introduced more than a dozen weekend activities and classes that its guests can
participate in for no cost through the end of April.

The offerings include a golf clinic, dance classes in different styles like
waltz and tango, a lesson in photography, an hourlong instruction in the basics
of tennis, a lecture from the resort's historians on art from the American West
and an introductory mixology course.

In addition, the resort has a "Spectacular Winter Savings Package" where
children under 10 dine for free in the property's seven restaurants when
accompanied by a paying adult, and both  kids and adults get complimentary
admission into the 280-seat movie theater, which runs family films daily. Guests
also receive a 30 percent discount on published suite rates.

Room rates in the winter start at $95 a person a night.


     ·    Airbnb Updates Its Mobile App
     ·    Jean-Michel Cousteau Designs a New Ritz Kids Program
     ·    A New Artisan Trail in Virginia
     ·    Walkabout: Mishaps in Pet Travel; Cyber Monday Travel Deals
     ·    A Room On, and Below, the Water


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                           December 5, 2013 Thursday

Airbnb Updates Its Mobile App

BYLINE: RACHEL HARRIS

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 274 words



HIGHLIGHT: TheAirbnb mobile application lets users accept bookings, respond to
messages from potential renters, and communicate with current guests.


Updates to the mobile application for Airbnb,the home rental Web site, are
designed for the company's growing number of property owners trying to rent
their homes to travelers.

Hosts are now able to manage their properties and renters from any iOS or
Android device using Host Home, a sort of dashboard on the app that allows users
to respond to incoming messages from potential renters, accept bookings,
communicate with current guests and update their property's calendar on the Web
site.

"Our goal is to make hosting as easy as possible," Brian Chesky, the chief
executive of Airbnb, said in a statement.

The updates also provide access to new initiatives developed by the company
aimed at helping smooth the rental process for owners.

The first, a set of hospitality guidelines, point out ways in which a host can
develop a renter's trust, provide a welcoming and clean home, suggest basic
amenities to offer guests and encourage hosts to be accurate in the
representation of their property, communicate clearly and honor their
commitments.

The second initiative, called Host Groups, is an online network where property
owners can connect with one another, either locally or globally, in order to
share advice or assist one another with check-ins, property maintenance and
other matters.

More than 300 groups have been formed since the beta version was introduced in
June, according to Airbnb, before which several offline groups had already been
established.


     ·    An Early Start for Cyber Deals
     ·    Update for a Global Medical App
     ·    Rentals That Are Local, and Luxurious
     ·    In-Flight Devices, Yes. But What About the Power?
     ·    An Aggregator for Rides, Lodging and Guides


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 9, 2013 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Celebrity Lawyer Still Has the Skills

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 918 words


THE GODS OF GUILT By Michael Connelly

387 pages. Little, Brown and Company. $28.

When we first met Michael Connelly's Mickey Haller in ''The Lincoln Lawyer''
(2005), his shyster qualities were irresistible. He used his car as an office,
advertised his services on bus benches in high-crime areas and bribed bail
bondsmen with cans of Planters holiday nut mix filled with money. This last ploy
gave Mickey untold business opportunities and let him eat a squirrel's diet out
of Tupperware until springtime. He was a refreshing change from his brooding,
much older half-brother: Mr. Connelly's best-known character, Hieronymus Bosch,
a.k.a. Harry.

But Mickey has changed. In ''The Gods of Guilt'' it's acknowledged that there
was a movie about him -- quite a good one, with Matthew McConaughey oozing
comfortably into the role -- and that other lawyers are now Mickey wannabes.
When he jumps into a Lincoln Town Car in front of a courthouse, there's now a
danger that it won't be his. But celebrity hasn't gone to his head or his
wallet. And nobody envies Mickey's political acumen, since he ran for district
attorney and apparently lost.

As ''The Gods of Guilt'' begins, Mickey is demonstrating that he's still good in
a courtroom and hasn't lost his flair for a shady scam. He is violently attacked
by his client. (Prearranged.) The judge declares a mistrial. Safely away from
the courthouse, Mickey cleans up the fake blood around his mouth and throws away
the spare blood capsule he was holding in case the first one malfunctioned. He
feels perfectly justified in having carried out this trick, and justice really
is paramount with him. His client was a black man accused of following wealthy
white women home from malls and attacking them. One Beverly Hills housewife
insists that Mickey's client was her assailant, but Mickey thinks interracial
recognition and identification are problematic. He doesn't want to let a jury
handle such a loaded question.

This leads to the book's major criminal case. It involves a prosperous-looking
woman who goes into the Beverly Wilshire carrying a Saks Fifth Avenue shopping
bag as camouflage because she happens to be a prostitute and the film ''Pretty
Woman'' has given the Beverly Wilshire a whole new kind of cachet. But her
client does not seem to be in his room. So she leaves, at least on the evidence
of video cameras planted throughout the hotel. Hours later, she is found
murdered at her home. Her cyber-pimp (talk about new cachet!) is accused of
strangling her.

''If you lie, I fly -- that's my rule,'' Mickey tells the pimp, whose name is
Andre. Mickey has a special interest in this case because he knew the dead woman
through an earlier case and had a soft spot for her. Now Mr. Connelly brings to
bear his expert skills at complicating matters: Gloria (the dead woman's most
recent name) once snitched on a powerful drug dealer, and is that what got her
killed? Mickey needs to find out about him. What about the other hookers who
knew Gloria, including one with the memorable nom de ho of Trina Trixxx?
Naturally, Mickey must make her acquaintance, too. A third hooker turns out to
be a romanceable yoga teacher and threatens to give the book a soggy center. But
Mickey doesn't have much time to get gaga over her or to pine for his
sort-of-estranged teenage daughter.

The main event in the Haller books is the trial sequence. And Mr. Connelly saves
his best moves for that. It must be pointed out that he has gotten more
determined to save things ever since the idea of synergy entered his writing: He
has an Amazon television show in the works for next year and an e-book spinoff
from this novel coming in January. All it takes is for Harry Bosch to casually
run into Mickey in court, mention the San Quentin lifer he's prosecuting, and
have that play some small role in Mickey's case. Quicker than you can say
''Kindle,'' Mr. Connelly has an extra story to sell.

''The Gods of Guilt'' takes its unusual, hard-flogged title from something Mr.
Connelly says he has overheard from lawyers. It nominally refers to jurors and
their great power -- but hey, we're talking about a metaphysical guy. As he
repeats ''the gods of guilt'' endlessly, Mr. Connelly seems to be pondering the
burdens of guilt that each and every one of us carry, and what its nature is,
and how we can best atone for it, and so on. Here's a guess: The title will be
less well remembered than the various ploys, like ''Marco Polo'' and ''Trojan
Horse,'' that Mickey executes in the courtroom, treating it as if it were a
football field.

It is not Mickey's modus operandi to simply collect facts, make a case and prove
it. Mr. Connelly writes courtroom drama as a changeable set of circumstances, so
that Mickey's role as manipulator is at least as important as his detecting. In
this book, he does a very satisfying job of feinting about what he's truly after
until he leaves his real target wholly unprotected, and the maneuvering is
masterly. And potentially very cinematic. Mr. Connelly may not be a perfect
wordsmith, but he brings down the hammer of justice with unequivocal power.

''The Gods of Guilt'' is the book that nearly turns Mickey into the Lexus
Lawyer, a terrible fate. His Lincoln is a huge part of his makeup, and when it
is jeopardized so is he. We learn that 2011 is the year that Mickey's beloved
type of Lincoln Town Car went extinct, but never fear. At this story's end, he's
back in his preferred surroundings and ready to roll whenever Mr. Connelly can
make time for him.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/12/09/books/mickey-haller-lincoln-lawyer-returns-in-
gods-of-guilt.html

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK DELONG PHOTOGRAPHY)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2013 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Season for Sales Taxes

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 436 words


On Cyber Monday this month, a big day for online shopping, the Supreme Court
quietly cleared the way for states to begin collecting some $13 billion in sales
taxes that go uncollected each year on Internet purchases. That development
creates an important opening for hard-pressed states to update their sales-tax
codes broadly.

For decades, online retailers have relied on a 1992 Supreme Court ruling to
avoid sales-tax collection in states where they have no physical presence. That
has given them an unfair advantage over brick-and-mortar retailers and has
deprived states of billions of dollars of sales tax revenue.

In 2008, New York fought back. It passed a law requiring sales tax collection by
online retailers that use New York-based affiliates, which are companies whose
websites link shoppers to online retailers. New York was on solid ground because
the Supreme Court had said that ''physical presence'' means not only buildings
and employees, but also representatives who market a retailer's goods. Online
retailers challenged the law, but the Supreme Court has now declined to hear the
case, in effect, upholding the New York statute and similar laws in 13 other
states.

The states that have no such law would be wise to follow New York's model. State
tax revenues have only barely returned to pre-recession levels, which is not
nearly enough to meet today's needs. At the same time, federal aid to states is
falling. The results are dire. For example, most states are providing less money
per student this academic year than before the recession, while federal cuts
have slashed aid to high-poverty schools, according to the Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities.

Taxing online purchases of merchandise is only one way to tax Internet commerce.
Twenty-three states lose some $300 million a year because they do not tax
downloads of music, movies, games, books and other items that are sold and
delivered digitally. Forty-two states lose some $350 million a year because they
let online travel companies charge sales taxes based on the wholesale rate they
pay hotels for the right to rent rooms, rather than the price they charge
customers.

While sales taxes are generally regressive, sales taxes on Internet purchases
tend to spare low-income consumers somewhat because they shop less online than
those with higher incomes. Broadened sales taxes could also be paired with more
progressive state income taxes to ensure that the burden is widely shared.

Ideally, Congress would pass a law to ensure uniform and comprehensive taxation
of Internet sales. Until that happens, states will have to act on their own.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/12/10/opinion/a-season-for-sales-taxes.html

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (Nicholas D. Kristof)

                          December 11, 2013 Wednesday

Nick Kristof Answers Your Questions

BYLINE: THE EDITORS

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2138 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Op-Ed columnist responds to questions from readers on &#8220;Half
the Sky&#8221;, Syria, China, and more.


 On Monday readers were invited to ask Op-Ed columnist Nick Kristof questions on
any topic. Dozens of readers asked Nick's views on freedom of the press in
China, President Obama's second term agenda, whether the Middle East will ever
have a Mandela-like figure, what he leaves out of his columns and more.

The following are Nick's answers to select questions, filed from Kenya, where he
is on assignment. Questions were edited for length but the full versions are
available from the link on each questioner's name.

Q.

Why do men continue to perpetrate violence against women and children? How is it
that they can walk into a room locked from the outside and still engage in
sexual acts with someone who has been taken, held against their will and is just
a child? What would it take to get men to see women differently? To stand up for
them in their locales? Why do they continue to perpetrate violence against women
and/or refuse to prevent it?
Susan Elliott,
Maryland

 A.

I absolutely agree that men have to be part of the solution, and indeed that's
one reason why I often write about women's rights. If it's only women who
complain about these issues, then they've lost from the get-go. The Holocaust
wasn't just a Jewish issue, civil rights weren't just a black issue, and sexual
violence isn't just a women's issue.

I also think that we sometimes mistakenly think that because terrible things
happen to women and girls around the world, the culprits are invariably men. In
fact, women often do pretty terrible things to other women. Polls show that the
best predictor of whether one is for or against wife-beating, for example, isn't
whether you're male or female. Rather it's your degree of education and whether
you're urban or rural (educated people and city-dwellers tend to be more likely
to disapprove of wife-beating, while those who are rural or less educated,
including women, are more likely to say it's sometimes justified). So the
problem may be patriarchic or misogynistic values, but those are values that can
be absorbed almost as much by women as by men.

How do we change attitudes, of men and women, toward gender? Education,
education, education, along with frank discussion of these issues. That's why
we're always so happy when "Half the Sky" is assigned to college freshman to
read, because then it'll be read not just by liberal feminists but also by the
football team. And that's how change arrives.

I should also say that while women lag in many respects, in the developed world
including the United States we have a real problem with working class boys and
men falling behind in some areas, particularly education. Two-thirds of the
members of high school National Honor Society members are now girls, and boys
are more likely to drop out and have trouble with the law. Many traditionally
male blue-collar occupations are on the wane, and those men at the bottom of the
socioeconomic ladder are becoming marginalized. So we need to work to help
struggling men, as well as struggling women.

Q.

I was surprised by your support for Syrian intervention. But I have found myself
on your side of the debate a number of times because I don't consider the recent
agreement to address the serious humanitarian crisis that continues to plague
Syria. In fact, I think no serious steps are being taken to address the
humanitarian crisis. In light of the agreement, and the face of the Syrian
conflict now, do you stand by your position to intervene, or what other
strategies do you propose to deal with this ongoing crisis?
Sara Martinez,
South Hadley, MA

A.

I continue to believe that we should have intervened in the past, by providing
weapons to moderate rebels, by cyber attacks on the regime, and by air strikes
on Syrian military air strips or other military targets. Early on, I think that
would have supported the rise of the rebels and led to the collapse of the
regime. However, it may be too late now. The moderates have been disappearing,
because they didn't get weapons-so rebels who wanted to fight grew beards and
joined the jihadi forces, because then they could at least get arms. And the
tide of battle has turned so that the regime is now ascendant.

At this juncture, I'm not sure that there is much we can do on the battlefield
that will have much impact. We can however push much harder for all sides to
accept the principle of humanitarian access, so that aid groups can move across
battle lines and deliver food and medicine. That's essential to avoid a huge
rise in the death toll from disease and malnutrition, and it may be feasible:
Neither the Syrian government nor the opposition wants to be accused of blocking
aid.

On the broader point, many of my readers felt betrayed when I advocated military
action, but I'm a firm believer that the military toolbox can advance
humanitarian ends. Military intervention was a disaster in Iraq, but it saved
lives in Bosnia, Kosovo, Sierra Leone and elsewhere. We should be wary of
military deployments but not rule them out.

Q.

Does the Obama administration's recent dialogue with the Iranians and the
chemical weapons deal with the Syrians point to a real change in how we deal
with the Middle East? Will the dialogue with these two foreign policy
adversaries point to real change and prospect for peace and a lasting
Palestinian/Israeli peace deal?
CCRFAN,
 Arkansas

I wish I knew. But the Syrian chemical deal is going pretty well so far, and
there's reason to hope with Iran. On Palestinians and Israelis, I wouldn't hold
my breath, but I'm impressed that John Kerry is willing to take the risk and try
to work out a deal.

Q.

Is it possible for the Arab world to ever have a Mandela or a Gandhi?

hebert64,
Charlottesville, VA

 A.

Sure. Indeed, some would say that it has a few. Certainly Zainab al-Khawaja, a
young woman in Bahrain, is a huge fan of Mandela and Gandhi-and is now in jail
for supporting human rights. The United States Embassy has never even invited
her for meetings.

It's also important to recognize that such a question might seem condescending
or patronizing. Remember that Mahatma Gandhi himself was once supposedly asked:
"What do you think of Western civilization." He purportedly replied: "I think it
would be a good idea."

Q.

Nick, how can accurate reporting of China be possible if Times journalists are
unable to get visas?
Qiao Zhe,
Shenzhen, China

A.

It'll be very unfortunate if China kicks out reporters from the Times and other
news organizations, but it would be even sadder if reporters pulled their
punches to avoid offending the Chinese Communist Party. I've had my own ups and
downs with the Chinese authorities, and at one point in the early 1990's I was
almost kicked out of China and my wife lost her press credentials for a time.
Then relations improved-until the latest resurgence of hardliners.

Even if reporters are kicked out, reporting can continue. The worst famine in
world history, costing some 30 million lives, occurred in China at the end of
the 1950's and early 1960's, and as it happened the journalists in China then
(including the great Edgar Snow) completely missed it; indeed, they denied that
a famine was occurring. But reporters based in Hong Kong interviewed refugees
and captured the crisis pretty well. Likewise, I remember once being inside
North Korea, thrilled by my visa, and then going on line and reading articles by
Barbara Demick in the Los Angeles Times based on interviews with North Koreans
who had fled to China-and realizing that she was telling North Korea's story
better from outside the country than I was from inside. So we'll still try to
cover China even if we are denied visas-and I can't believe that China would
want to go back to the Cultural Revolution period when it last routinely denied
us visas. It would also be a slap in the face of former President Jiang Zemin,
who opened the Times website to all Chinese.

Q.

What are the main reasons, in your opinion, why Americans today lack empathy for
the poor? Do you think President Obama has any chance to have free, universal
preschool implemented during his last term, and why or why not?
jhillmurphy,
Philadelphia, PA

A.

There are of course plenty of Americans who do feel empathy, and who staff soup
kitchens or donate to charity, but I think some others don't feel much empathy
for two reasons. First, they think that many of the poor behave in
self-destructive ways and have themselves to blame for their troubles. Second,
they think that anti-poverty initiatives have failed. There's an element of
truth to each of these, in that one way in which poverty sometimes
self-replicates from generation to generation is through irresponsible behavior,
and the War on Poverty hasn't been as effective as we might have hoped. But I
think middle class folks overdo the blame game: If you're a boy of color growing
up in some ZIP codes, there are overwhelming forces from every side pushing you
into trouble, just as if you're a white kid in a wealthy suburb you have a
million buffers to protect you from trouble. And while the overall war on
poverty hasn't been enormously successful except in reducing poverty rates for
the elderly (where it has worked very well), we're gaining a better
understanding of the kinds of interventions that do work very well.

Early interventions, beginning by trying to reduce fetal alcohol effects and
drugs in pregnancy, and then by encouraging breastfeeding and maternal
attachment and parent-child reading, make a big difference. Family planning
initiatives to reduce unwanted teen pregnancies can be quite effective.
Parent-coaching often has a big impact, and so does pre-kindergarten. The
paradox is that we tend to devote most spending to later years, when it's less
effective.

As for President Obama's early childhood education initiative, I think it's
unlikely to get through Congress (although I continue to hope!). But I do think
that it's possible for the Obama administration to create federal incentives
that support more states and localities trying to develop their own pre-K
programs. Polling suggests that Republicans and Democrats alike favor pre-K, and
Republican states like Oklahoma and Utah have been leaders in providing pre-K
and other early childhood initiatives.

Q.

How can we best engage with those whom we disagree? While I agree with the
majority of ideas and opinions you express, I am surrounded by a number of
people who vehemently disagree and are set in their opinions. Real, lasting
change almost always comes from the ground up. I would appreciate hearing more
ideas about how to effectively engage people across the political and cultural
spectrum.
Megan,
Liverpool, UK

A.

There's a fine balance between showing respect for other people's views and yet
being willing to argue strongly, passionately, for what you believe is right.
It's a tough balance to sustain, but it's possible.

I think it's worth acknowledging that most people who express other viewpoints
are sincere in them. They may be wrong, but they're not evil-and, who knows,
maybe you're the one who's wrong. I can't say what other people should do, but I
attempt to follow conservative opinions by reading the Wall Street Journal
opinion pages every day and by watching Fox News when I'm on the road. It's
tough-a mental workout that is an echo of a tough physical workout-but it is
invigorating.

Q.

As a journalist/writer myself (though in features, not hard news) I am curious
about what you leave out. To some degree, it seems as if you are, in striving
for a clear story line, perhaps paring away some of the contradictions,
irritations, etc, that no doubt exist in the lives and stories you recount. What
are some examples of this, and how do you feel about this?
Ann Klefstad,
Duluth, MN

My columns are 780 words long, which means that by the time you clear your
throat and share an anecdote, you're out of space. So invariably I leave things
out. Since these are opinion columns and I'm making an argument, I sometimes
leave out opposite arguments or contrary evidence-but then at other times, it's
effective to raise a counter-argument and acknowledge it or dispose of it.

I also tend to write about issues that Americans aren't much interested in, so I
look for the most arresting stories to grab reader attention. Critics sometimes
say, and they have a point, that the result is stories that are particularly
compelling but too extreme to be representative of the problem. That's sometimes
a fair criticism, and it's one that was explored in a film about my work called
"Reporter." Because there isn't space in my columns to engage critics properly,
I tend to do more of that in social media, such as on Twitter and Facebook.  I
also explored the things I get wrong on Quora.

Later this week: Nick will highlight his favorite answers to the questions he
asked of readers on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                           December 12, 2013 Thursday

Shopify Raises $100 Million in Third Round of Financing

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 506 words



HIGHLIGHT: Shopify plans to announce on Thursday that it has raised $100 million
in a Series C round of financing, led by the venture capital arm of the Canadian
pension fund OMERS and the investment firm Insight Venture Partners.


Shopify may have begun seven years ago as an online store for three friends to
sell snowboards. But as the company's growth has exploded, so has its goal:
becoming a giant of commerce, both on and off the web.

Now the start-up is receiving a substantial amount of help in that aim.

Shopify plans to announce on Thursday that it has raised $100 million in a
Series C round of financing, led by the venture capital arm of the Canadian
pension fund OMERS and the investment firm Insight Venture Partners. Also
contributing to the round were Bessemer Venture Partners, FirstMark Capital,
Georgian Partners and Felicis Ventures.

The latest financing is nearly five times the $22 million that the company
raised in its previous two rounds, and values it at nearly $1 billion.

It comes as Shopify begins to substantially branch out from its main business,
serving as the online retail platform for other companies. Though it began as a
way to sell snowboards, it now claims to run more than 80,000 stores, mostly on
behalf of small businesses.

And it is still growing. The company says that member stores sold over $100
million worth of products in the week surrounding this year's Black Friday and
Cyber Monday.

But Harley Finkelstein, Shopify's chief platform officer, said the company now
saw its future in offering customers offline solutions as well. It already
offers software that lets clients effectively use iPads as cash registers,
somewhat akin to Square's payment offering.

The idea is that whether the cash register is a phone, a website or a tablet,
inventory and other store management issues can be handled seamlessly across
platforms.

"We want to go from being an e-commerce company to a commerce company," he said.
"That's the vision.  Sell anything, anywhere, anytime."

The push to operate on several channels at once began as a battle cry from
traditional brick-and-mortar retailers, who scrambled to get online to avoid
losing customers to websites like Amazon. More recently, the tide began to flow
in the other direction, as online retailers opened physical stores of their own.
Piperlime, for example, has a store in Manhattan's SoHo, which was designed to
seem consistent with the language, fonts and color scheme of its website.

While online shopping has shown strong growth in recent years, the research firm
ShopperTrak estimates that over 90 percent of actual commerce still takes place
in physical stores, which makes that segment an important target for any company
that hopes to serve retailers.

While Shopify does not want to open stores of its own, it has been experimenting
with pop-up stores - events it calls "Popify" - bringing online retailers who
use its platform into a physical space so it can study what shoppers do.

The company already knows a lot about what consumers do online, Mr. Finkelstein
said.  Now "we want to learn as much as we can about consumer interaction
offline," he said.


     ·    Vote of Confidence in Mexico's Version of Amazon.com
     ·    Mark Cuban Invests in Start-Up to Connect Companies to M.B.A.'s


LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 13, 2013 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Panel Said to Urge N.S.A. Curbs

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; Michael S. Schmidt and Charlie Savage contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1418 words


WASHINGTON -- A presidential advisory committee charged with examining the
operations of the National Security Agency has concluded that a program to
collect data on every phone call made in the United States should continue,
though under broad new restraints that would be intended to increase privacy
protections, according to officials with knowledge of the report's contents.

The committee's report, the officials said, also argues in favor of codifying
and publicly announcing the steps the United States will take to protect the
privacy of foreign citizens whose telephone records, Internet communications or
movements are collected by the N.S.A. But it is unclear how far that effort
would go, and intelligence officials have argued strenuously that they should be
under few restrictions when tapping the communications of non-Americans abroad,
who do not have constitutional protections under the Fourth Amendment.

The advisory group is also expected to recommend that senior White House
officials, including the president, directly review the list of foreign leaders
whose communications are routinely monitored by the N.S.A. President Obama
recently apologized to Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany for the N.S.A.'s
monitoring of her calls over the past decade, promising that the actions had
been halted and would not resume. But he refused to make the same promise to the
leaders of Mexico and Brazil.

Administration officials say the White House has already taken over supervision
of that program. ''We're not leaving it to Jim Clapper anymore,'' said one
official, referring to the director of national intelligence, who appears to
have been the highest official to review the programs regularly.

But resistance from the intelligence agencies is likely. In an interview two
months ago, Gen. Keith B. Alexander, the soon-to-retire director of the N.S.A.
and the commander of the military's Cyber Command, suggested that a major
cutback in American spying on foreign nationals would be naïve. And officials
who have examined the N.S.A.'s programs say they have been surprised at how
infrequently the agency has been challenged to weigh the intelligence benefits
of its foreign collection operations against the damage that could be done if
the programs were exposed.

One of the expected recommendations is that the White House conduct a regular
review of those collection activities, the way covert action by the C.I.A. is
reviewed annually.

Another likely recommendation, officials say, is the creation of an organization
of legal advocates who, like public defenders, would argue against lawyers for
the N.S.A. and other government organizations in front of the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court, the nation's secret court that oversees the
collection of telephone and Internet ''metadata'' and of wiretapping aimed at
terrorism and espionage suspects. Mr. Obama has already hinted that he objects
to the absence of any adversarial procedures in front of the court's judges.

But even if the N.S.A.'s activities are curtailed, it may be hard to convince
Americans -- or Germans, Mexicans and Brazilians -- that the agency's practices
had changed. In part, that may depend on how much public transparency is built
into programs that the government has spent years cloaking.

The advisory report offers the first signs that the revelations by Edward J.
Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor who took thousands of documents from the
agency's archives and has given some of them to news organizations, may lead to
changes in the programs he exposed. While Mr. Snowden has been widely condemned
in Washington for violating his oaths to protect secrets, and for taking up
asylum in Russia instead of facing prosecution, it now appears likely that his
disclosures will lead to the result he told interviewers he was seeking.

Caitlin Hayden, the spokeswoman for the National Security Council, declined to
discuss any specific recommendations of the panel. ''Our review is looking
across the board at our intelligence gathering to ensure that as we gather
intelligence, we are properly accounting for both the security of our citizens
and our allies, and the privacy concerns shared by Americans and citizens around
the world,'' she said. ''We need to ensure that our intelligence resources are
most effectively supporting our foreign policy and national security objectives
-- that we are more effectively weighing the risks and rewards of our
activities.''

She added that the review was especially focused on ''examining whether we have
the appropriate posture when it comes to heads of state; how we coordinate with
our closest allies and partners; and what further guiding principles or
constraints might be appropriate for our efforts.''

The five-person advisory group of intelligence and legal experts, several of
whom have long connections to Mr. Obama, is expected to deliver its lengthy,
unclassified report to the White House by this weekend. Among its members are
Richard A. Clarke, who served in the Clinton administration and both Bush
administrations and has become an expert on digital conflict; Michael J. Morell,
a former deputy director of the C.I.A.; and Cass R. Sunstein, a Harvard Law
School professor who served in the Obama White House and is married to Samantha
Power, the ambassador to the United Nations.

Two leading legal academics are also members: Peter Swire, an expert in privacy
law, and Geoffrey R. Stone, a constitutional law expert and a former dean of the
University of Chicago Law School, where Mr. Obama once taught.

Members of the advisory group have declined to talk about their recommendations
until the report is published. But fragmentary accounts of their main
conclusions have begun to seep out, as word has spread of a preliminary briefing
they gave to Mr. Obama's top advisers. Two officials said that the advisers had
gone further to challenge the intelligence agencies' ways of doing business than
they had expected.

''There's going to be a lot of pushback to some of their ideas,'' said one
person familiar with the contents, who declined to go into detail. Another said
that the report was ''still being fine-tuned,'' and that elements of the
recommendations may change.

As a senator, Mr. Obama was critical of the Bush administration's efforts to
extend the N.S.A.'s surveillance powers, but as president he has embraced most
of the programs begun during Mr. Bush's time, including the bulk collection of
telephone metadata. Only one major N.S.A. program, involving the bulk collection
of metadata from about 1 percent of all emails sent inside the United States, is
known to have been ended during Mr. Obama's presidency.

Once it is delivered to the White House, the report is expected to feed into
another review being conducted by national security officials across the
administration. Mr. Obama has indicated that he plans to announce a range of
changes, though officials say that is not likely to happen until early next
year. At some point, officials say, the advisory group's entire report will be
made public.

In an interview last week on MSNBC, Mr. Obama said, ''I'll be proposing some
self-restraint on the N.S.A., and, you know, to initiate some reforms that can
give people more confidence.'' But he gave no details.

Mr. Obama asked the advisory group to determine whether the N.S.A. had
overreached, putting new programs in place because it had the technological
capability, rather than weighing the costs to privacy. ''What's coming back is a
report that says we can't dismantle these programs, but we need to change the
way almost all of them operate,'' said one official familiar with the advisory
group's instructions.

So far, the intelligence agencies have largely opposed most proposals for major
changes in the programs that they developed after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
For example, General Alexander has told Congress that it would not be possible
to dismantle the bulk collection of data about American telephone calls until
there was an efficient way to search quickly for data held by communications
companies like AT&T and Verizon. Many of those companies do not retain the
information for more than 18 months, and say they do not want to take on the
burden and legal liabilities of holding it longer.

But General Alexander suggested in the interview two months ago that it may be
several years before the United States can develop technology that would make it
unnecessary for the government to amass that data in its own storage sites.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/12/13/world/americas/obama-panel-said-to-urge-nsa-cu
rbs.html

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. Keith B. Alexander, the director of the National Security
Agency, has called the idea of cutting back on spying naïve. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                            December 13, 2013 Friday

Restraining the N.S.A.

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 463 words



HIGHLIGHT: Don&#8217;t expect government surveillance programs to change
dramatically any time soon.


After the Edward Snowden leaks started, President Obama said absolutely
everything was being done to safeguard Americans' privacy and rights. Then he
called for a "vigorous public debate" about surveillance and eventually ordered
reviews of National Security Agency programs - to make sure that all those
promised safeguards were, in fact, in place.

Some information is trickling out from those reviews, and the proposals, so far,
seem pretty mild.

David Sanger wrote in today's Times that one advisory committee was likely to
recommend the creation of a group of legal advocates, who would argue against
government lawyers in front of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. That
tribunal secretly decides whether to allow things like wiretaps against
terrorism suspects, or the mass collection of metadata without a specific
counter-terrorism purpose. Currently, it hears only from government lawyers in
those proceedings.

Adversarial procedures could be a good thing - if the new lawyers are actually
given access to the information they would need to present an opposing argument.
My concern about having a corps of lawyers designated to do this work is that
since they are not representing actual people, there's a risk that they will get
co-opted by the system.

Besides, if the court's decisions on matters of interpretation - what the
Patriot Act permits and what it doesn't, for instance - continue to be kept
secret, the assurance that opposing lawyers tried their best won't mean much.

The panel is also expected to recommend that the White House regularly review
the data collection program. So that's not happening now? If not, how was Mr.
Obama able to assure all of us that the N.S.A. was taking the utmost care of our
constitutional rights while hoovering information?

More important: Whatever safeguards the committee recommends, the metadata
program itself seems here to stay. Mr. Sanger wrote that the panel had reviewed
the vacuum-cleaner approach to Americans' communications and decided - surprise!
- that it should continue.

In other news, a different panel, according to The Washington Post, has
determined that control of the National Security Agency should remain in the
hands of a serving general, who also will be in charge of the cyber war program.
(Many have argued that that is too much power for one individual.) And spying on
heads of state will continue, although Mr. Obama may start reviewing the list of
targets. That seems sensible, but, once again, why wasn't he already doing that?

"The big picture is there's not going to be that much constraint," The Post
quoted one U.S. official as saying.


     ·    The N.S.A. May Have Your Address Book
     ·    Yes We Can to Yes We Scan
     ·    Snowden's Questionable New Turn
     ·    Parliament Versus the Press
     ·    The N.S.A. Dips Into Pornography


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 14, 2013 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama to Keep Security Agency and Cyberwarfare Under a Single Commander

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and THOM SHANKER; Charlie Savage contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 954 words


WASHINGTON -- President Obama has decided to keep the National Security Agency
and the Pentagon's cyberwarfare branch under the same command despite concerns
that it concentrates too much power in the hands of a single military official
responsible for both surveillance and directing a growing arsenal of
cyberweapons.

As a practical matter, the decision means that Mr. Obama must appoint a
four-star military officer to succeed Gen. Keith B. Alexander, the first person
to simultaneously run the two organizations, when he retires early next year.
Only a military commander can run Cyber Command, which is responsible for
defending the military's computer and sensor systems and carrying out offensive
computer-network attacks.

But that also means the N.S.A. will be run by someone who has spent a career in
the military culture, with the mind-set that engenders.

Several members of an advisory committee that submitted its report to Mr. Obama
on Friday -- with what the White House said was a list of 40 recommendations --
expressed the view that the two organizations should be split, in part to assure
civilian control of the N.S.A.

The agency is responsible for electronic intelligence gathering and has been at
the center of the revelations about government surveillance. The White House
said the report would not be made public until next month, when Mr. Obama
announces which of the recommendations he has embraced and which he has
rejected.

In a statement, Caitlin Hayden, the spokeswoman for the National Security
Council, said that Mr. Obama had decided that ''keeping the positions of N.S.A.
director and Cyber Command commander together as one, dual-hatted position is
the most effective approach to accomplishing both agencies' missions.''

The initial decision to unify the two was made in 2009 at the recommendation of
Robert M. Gates, then the defense secretary, Ms. Hayden said, ''with the aim of
unifying the leadership of the organizations responsible for signals
intelligence and defending the nation in cyberspace.''

''N.S.A. plays a unique role in supporting Cyber Command's mission,'' she
continued, ''providing critical support for target access and development,
including linguists, analysts, cryptanalytic capabilities and sophisticated
technological infrastructure.''

One leading candidate to replace General Alexander is Vice Adm. Michael S.
Rogers, now the commander of the Navy's cyberoperations. He was the director of
intelligence for the military's Joint Chiefs of Staff and for the Pentagon's
Pacific Command.

The combined Cyber Command and the security agency's most famous joint operation
so far has been ''Olympic Games,'' the cyberattacks launched against Iran's
nuclear program.

But the revelation of that operation in 2010, when the computer worm involved in
the attack escaped from the Natanz nuclear plant and began to circulate around
the world, started a debate about the degree to which the United States wants to
make computer weaponry a regular part of its military arsenal.

From its creation in 2009, Cyber Command has had a complicated organizational
relationship within the military and intelligence community. It is not a
stand-alone military command, but is subordinate to the Strategic Command, in
Nebraska, which has authority over America's nuclear arsenal. But it is
physically located at Fort Meade, in Maryland, alongside the National Security
Agency.

Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel issued no official statement on the decision to
retain the current structure, but senior Pentagon officials said the outcome was
based on an assessment that the military's global combatant commanders rely
heavily on both the security agency and Cyber Command for real-time support.

In an interview in November, Mr. Hagel previewed how policy makers and
commanders were approaching the question of whether to separate the N.S.A. and
Cyber Command leadership -- in particular in measuring any changes against the
risks to carrying out military operations around the globe.

''I listen to our combatant commanders very carefully on this, because they're
probably as big a user on a day-to-day basis of the benefits of having those two
commands together as anyone,'' Mr. Hagel said. ''And we charge them -- America
charges them, the Congress, the president, I do -- in each of their combatant
commander responsibilities, to keep their areas safe, but also keep us all
safe.''

In a separate interview last month, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the
Joint Chiefs, echoed a similar set of priorities as he weighed his advice on the
question of whether to separate the N.S.A. and Cyber Command leadership.

''My interest is in assuring that the intelligence that the National Security
Agency gathers is responsive to the needs of those out in the tactical level
fighting our wars,'' General Dempsey said.

He said that Cyber Command and the security agency were ''actually operating in
the same domain, and we rely on one set of critical I.T. architecture.'' It
would be inefficient -- even financially impossible -- to fully recreate for
Cyber Command the architecture that already exists within the N.S.A., he said.

Also on Friday, the security agency publicly confirmed that Chris Inglis, the
agency's deputy director and its highest ranking civilian, had stepped down. The
move was first reported by Foreign Policy.

A spokeswoman for the security agency, Vanee Vines, said that Mr. Inglis had
stepped down this week and been succeeded by Fran Fleisch as the acting deputy
director until a decision is made about whom his long-term successor should be.

A former air force pilot and a retired brigadier general in the Air National
Guard, Mr. Inglis had been serving as the N.S.A.'s deputy director since 2006.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/12/14/us/politics/obama-to-keep-security-agency-and-
cyberwarfare-under-a-single-commander.html

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                            December 16, 2013 Monday

Today in Small Business: The Oldest Businesses in America

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 402 words



HIGHLIGHT: Cheaper gasoline. The impact of ending unemployment benefits. How to
handle difficult customers.


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.

The Budget


     ·    Paul Ryan says the debt-ceiling fight is not over.


Economy


     ·    Here are three ways you can profit from cheaper gasoline in 2014.
     ·    Seven New Yorkers who are about to lose their unemployment benefits
          tell their stories.


Holiday Parties


     ·    An annual survey from American Express found that, compared with last
          year, fewer small-business owners will throw holiday parties for
          employees, fewer will give their employees year-end bonuses and fewer
          will send gifts to clients or customers.
     ·    Here are a few tips for spreading holiday cheer around your office.


Management


     ·    Christopher Mims explains why executive coaching is worth $500 per
          hour.
     ·    This is how to stay cool when inspectors show up at your small
          business.


Retail


     ·    A small, nondescript, 12-table basement restaurant in Earlton, N.Y.,
          has a five-year waiting list.
     ·    An 82-year-old woman opens a retail shop.


Start-Ups


     ·    A high school senior whose idea as a 12-year-old turned into a
          business that Visa bought for $200 million, is back with a new
          start-up.


Customer Service


     ·    Here are two tips for handling difficult customers.


Cash Flow


     ·    Here are seven signs that your company needed an accountant six months
          ago.


Online


     ·    Mobile devices generated 20 percent of the world's browsing activity
          last month, the highest ever, according to a Web analytics company.
     ·    A millennial web developer sees business in aging Baby Boomers.


Around the Country


     ·    After 122 years, a sour economy and competition with big-box stores
          proved to be too tough for a Michigan hardware store.
     ·    Here are five of the oldest businesses in America.
     ·    New data shows that three states used 23 percent of the country's
          electricity.


Around the World


     ·    The Paris-Barcelona high-speed rail link finally opens.


Technology


     ·    The world's most innovative people use these three tech tools.
     ·    Google buys a maker of spectacular and terrifying robots.
     ·    As numerous experts are reminding consumers and businesses, the high
          season for shopping is also the high season for cyber crime.


Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., a consulting firm that
helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on
Twitter.


     ·    Today in Small Business: Politeness-Based Pricing
     ·    A Bootstrapping Entrepreneur Decides to Bet the Family Home
     ·    Today in Small Business: The Rise of Uber
     ·    A Start-Up Tries Selling 'Sprayable' Caffeine
     ·    A Start-Up Tries to Solve the Gift Card Problem


LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           December 17, 2013 Tuesday

Fewer Gmail Users Are Opening Retailers' Messages This Shopping Season

BYLINE: CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 715 words



HIGHLIGHT: Changes to Gmail are challenging e-commerce marketers this holiday
shopping season, by cloaking information about who opens retailers&#8217; emails
and driving down the number of people who open them in the first place.


Some e-commerce marketers are having a challenging holiday season, and they
blame Google for it.

A change to Gmail that relegated retailers' emails to a separate inbox for
promotions has had a big effect during the busiest shopping period of the year,
according to three services that manage mass emails. And another change to
Gmail, involving the way it shows images in messages, made it harder for
retailers to track who opens their emails.

Google says it made the changes to improve the service for users, and that the
changes could also be advantageous to marketers. Yet many email marketers - with
whom Google competes for advertising - are still concerned.

"Everyone knows their best customers are at Gmail, so that's a problem," said
Quinn Jalli, senior vice president of digital marketing services at Epsilon, a
digital marketing firm. "It's less clicks from the most affluent portion of
society, so it has a disproportionate impact on the bottom line for retailers."

Google announced Thursday that it would automatically show images in Gmail
messages (before, Gmail required an extra click to display images, largely
because malware could be embedded in the images.) Google now stores images on
its own servers, where it screens them for safety, instead of on the senders'
servers.

The flip side for retailers is that by storing images on their own servers, they
received much more information about Gmail users who opened their messages, such
as their locations. Now, they know someone opened an email but not much more.

Screen shots from Google showed the change in how images will load in Gmail.

Half a year since Gmail introduced tabbed inboxes, fewer emails from retailers
are being opened, according to three services that manage mass emails. And while
some data showed that Gmail users nonetheless spent more money - perhaps because
they proactively sought out retail emails in the promotions inbox - other data
showed the opposite.

Gmail shoppers, who tend to be wealthier and more tech-savvy, clicked on retail
emails 14.5 percent more than Yahoo users before the change to Gmail, according
to Epsilon. But by October, the difference had shrunk to 4.2 percent, indicating
that Gmail users were ignoring marketing emails more often.

Accordingly, Epsilon's retail customers have reported a decline in revenue from
Gmail users. And even when people did not open retail emails, the messages
reminded people of the brand by showing up in their inboxes, and that effect is
now lost, Mr. Jalli said.

Sailthru, another companythat does email marketing, compared Thanksgiving
weekend email activity year over year at Gmail, Yahoo, Hotmail and AOL. On Black
Friday, open rates for Gmail declined 12.8 percent, while they rose 5.2 percent
for the other three email providers. On Cyber Monday, open rates declined 7.5
percent at Gmail and increased 15.7 percent at the others.

Yet when Gmail users opened a retail email, they were more likely to spend
money, Sailthru found. On Black Friday, revenue from each email that was opened
climbed 44.8 percent at Gmail compared to 24.1 percent for Yahoo, Hotmail and
AOL.

"Retailers will need to individually examine whether the gains in quality are
enough to offset any loss in quantity from the dip in opens," said Cassie
Lancellotti-Young, vice president of optimization and analytics at Sailthru.

A third email marketing service, MailChimp, analyzed 29 billion emails sent over
six months and found that the open rates at Gmail declined 1.6 percent and click
rates declined 1.4 percent - both significantly larger decreases than at Yahoo
or Hotmail.

Meanwhile, the percentage of people who have unsubscribed from marketing emails
- which MailChimp calls holiday email fatigue - increased at the other email
providers but did not change at Gmail.

Matthew Grove, an engineer at MailChimp, concluded that the Gmail change is
working because people seem less frustrated by promotions if they are not
unsubscribing. But could it mean that people simply aren't seeing the retailers'
emails at all?


     ·    Daily Report: Retailers Turn to Social Media to Showcase Products
     ·    Disruptions: Under a New Chief, Yahoo Still Seeks Its Voice
     ·    Daily Report: Lawsuit Accuses Google of Wiretapping in Gmail Scans
     ·    A Feature Film, Starring Google
     ·    Daily Report: Google Races to Map the World


LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 19, 2013 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama is Urged to Sharply Curb N.S.A. Data Mining

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and CHARLIE SAVAGE; Jeremy W. Peters contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1592 words


WASHINGTON -- A panel of outside advisers urged President Obama on Wednesday to
impose major oversight and some restrictions on the National Security Agency,
arguing that in the past dozen years its powers had been enhanced at the expense
of personal privacy.

The panel recommended changes in the way the agency collects the telephone data
of Americans, spies on foreign leaders and prepares for cyberattacks abroad.

But the most significant recommendation of the panel of five intelligence and
legal experts was that Mr. Obama restructure a program in which the N.S.A.
systematically collects logs of all American phone calls -- so-called metadata
-- and a small group of agency officials have the power to authorize the search
of an individual's telephone contacts. Instead, the panel said, the data should
remain in the hands of telecommunications companies or a private consortium, and
a court order should be necessary each time analysts want to access the
information of any individual ''for queries and data mining.''

The experts briefed Mr. Obama on Wednesday on their 46 recommendations, and a
senior administration official said Mr. Obama was ''open to many'' of the
changes, though he has already rejected one that called for separate leaders for
the N.S.A. and its Pentagon cousin, the United States Cyber Command.

If Mr. Obama adopts the majority of the recommendations, it would mark the first
major restrictions on the unilateral powers that the N.S.A. has acquired since
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. They would require far more specific approvals
from the courts, far more oversight from the Congress and specific presidential
approval for spying on national leaders, especially allies. The agency would
also have to give up one of its most potent weapons in cyberconflicts: the
ability to insert ''back doors'' in American hardware or software, a secret way
into them to manipulate computers, or to purchase previously unknown flaws in
software that it can use to conduct cyberattacks.

''We have identified a series of reforms that are designed to safeguard the
privacy and dignity of American citizens, and to promote public trust, while
also allowing the intelligence community to do what must be done to respond to
genuine threats,'' says the report, which Mr. Obama commissioned in August in
response to the mounting furor over revelations by Edward J. Snowden, a former
N.S.A. contractor, of the agency's surveillance practices.

It adds, ''Free nations must protect themselves, and nations that protect
themselves must remain free.''

White House officials said they expected significant resistance to some of the
report's conclusions from the N.S.A. and other intelligence agencies, which have
argued that imposing rules that could slow the search for terror suspects could
pave the way for another attack. But those intelligence leaders were not present
in the Situation Room on Wednesday when Mr. Obama met the authors of the report.

The report's authors made clear that they were weighing the N.S.A.'s
surveillance requirements against other priorities like constitutional
protections for privacy and economic considerations for American businesses. The
report came just three days after a federal judge in Washington ruled that the
bulk collection of telephone data by the government was ''almost Orwellian'' and
a day after Silicon Valley executives complained to Mr. Obama that the N.S.A.
programs were undermining American competitiveness in offering cloud services or
selling American-made hardware, which is now viewed as tainted.

The report was praised by privacy advocates in Congress and civil-liberties
groups as a surprisingly aggressive call for reform.

Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat who has been an outspoken critic of N.S.A.
surveillance, said it echoed the arguments of the N.S.A.'s skeptics in
significant ways, noting that it flatly declared that the phone-logging program
had not been necessary in stopping terrorist attacks.

''This has been a big week for the cause of intelligence reform,'' he said.

Greg Nojeim of the Center for Democracy and Technology called the report
''remarkably strong,'' and singled out its call to sharply limit the F.B.I.'s
power to obtain business records about someone through a so-called national
security letter, which does not involve court oversight.

Anthony Romero, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union,
while praising the report's recommendations, questioned ''whether the president
will have the courage to implement the changes.''

Members of the advisory group said some of the recommendations were intended to
provide greater public reassurances about privacy protections rather than to
result in any wholesale dismantling of the N.S.A.'s surveillance powers. Richard
A. Clarke, a cyberexpert and former national security official under Presidents
Bill Clinton and George W. Bush, said the report would give ''more reason for
the skeptics in the public to believe their civil liberties are being
protected.''

Other members included Michael J. Morell, a former deputy director of the
C.I.A.; Cass Sunstein, a Harvard Law School professor who ran the office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs in the Obama White House; Peter Swire, a
privacy law specialist at the Georgia Institute of Technology; and Geoffrey R.
Stone, a constitutional law specialist at the University of Chicago Law School,
where Mr. Obama once taught.

Mr. Obama is expected to take the report to Hawaii on his vacation that starts
this week and announce decisions when he returns in early January. Some of the
report's proposals could be ordered by Mr. Obama alone, while others would
require legislation from Congress, including changes to how judges are appointed
to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court.

Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, said he was skeptical that any
changes passed by Congress would go far enough. ''It gives me optimism that it
won't be completely brushed under the rug,'' he said. ''However, I've been here
long enough to know that in all likelihood when there's a problem, you get
window dressing.''

The FISA court, which oversees national security surveillance inside the United
States, has been criticized because it hears arguments only from the Justice
Department without adversarial lawyers to raise opposing views, and because
Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. has unilateral power to select its members.
Echoing proposals already floated in congressional hearings and elsewhere, the
advisory group backs the view that there should be a ''public interest advocate
to represent the interests of privacy and civil liberties'' in classified
arguments before the court. It also says the power to select judges for the
surveillance court should be distributed among all the Supreme Court justices.

In backing a restructuring of the N.S.A.'s program that is systematically
collecting and storing logs of all Americans' phone calls, the advisers went
further than some of the agency's backers in Congress, who would make only
cosmetic changes to it, but stopped short of calling for the program to be shut
down, as its critics have urged. The N.S.A. uses the telephone data to search
for links between people in an effort to identify hidden associates of terrorism
suspects, but the report says it ''was not essential to preventing attacks.''

Currently, the government obtains orders from the surveillance court every 90
days that require all the phone companies to give their customers' data to the
N.S.A., which commingles the records from every company and stores it for five
years. A small group of analysts may query the database -- examining records of
everyone who is linked by up to three degrees of separation from a suspect -- if
the analyst has ''reasonable, articulable suspicion'' that the original person
being examined is linked to terrorism.

Under the new system proposed by the review group, such records would stay in
private hands -- either scattered among the phone companies or pooled into some
kind of private consortium. The N.S.A. would need to make the case to the
surveillance court that it has met the standard of suspicion -- and get a
judge's order -- every time it wanted to perform such ''link analysis.''

''In our view, the current storage by the government of bulk metadata creates
potential risks to public trust, personal privacy, and civil liberty,'' the
report said.

The report recommended new privacy protections for the disclosure of personal
information about non-Americans among agencies or to the public. The change
would extend to foreigners essentially the same protections that citizens have
under the Privacy Act of 1974 -- a way of assuring foreign countries that their
own citizens, if targeted for surveillance, will enjoy at least some protections
under American law.

It also said the United States should get out of the business of secretly buying
or searching for flaws in common computer programs and using them for mounting
cyberattacks. That technique, using what are called zero-day flaws, so named
because they are used with zero days of warning that the flaw exists, were
crucial to the cyberattacks that the United States and Israel launched on Iran
in an effort to slow its nuclear program. The advisers said that the information
should be turned over to software manufacturers to have the mistakes fixed,
rather than exploited.

Regarding spying on foreign leaders, the report urged that the issue be taken
out the hands of the intelligence agencies and put into the hands of policy
makers.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/12/19/us/politics/report-on-nsa-surveillance-tactics
.html

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard A. Clarke, a former national security official, said a
new report would reassure the public on shielding civil liberties. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY MARKUS SCHREIBER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A28) CHART: Recommended Changes to the
N.S.A.: After months of disclosures on the data-gathering practices of the
National Security Agency, a presidential advisory committee submitted 46
recommendations for the agency's operations to President Obama. (A28)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 20, 2013 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Weighing Security and Privacy in Deciding on Spy Program Limits

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1076 words


WASHINGTON -- If President Obama adopts the most far-reaching recommendations of
the advisory group he set up to rein in the National Security Agency, much would
change underneath the giant antennas that sprout over Fort Meade, Md., where
America's electronic spies and cyberwarriors have operated with an unprecedented
amount of freedom since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

No longer would a team of two dozen or so agency analysts be able to type into a
computer that there was a ''reasonable, articulable suspicion'' about the person
behind an American telephone number and, in seconds, see every call made to and
from that phone -- followed by the same records for hundreds or thousands of
their contacts. Instead, an individual court order would have to be obtained --
a far slower process that, just months ago, Mr. Obama's intelligence team
insisted would be too cumbersome in halting attacks.

On the same guarded campus, military and civilian computer hackers working for
the United States Cyber Command would be barred from using one of the most
important building blocks of their growing arsenal of sophisticated
cyberweapons. Every day they exploit previously unknown flaws in computer
programs, known in the industry as ''zero-days,'' to conduct both surveillance
and attacks. A handful of such flaws -- named for the fact that they have been
known to the world for zero days, and thus cannot be defended against -- were
central to attacking Iran's nuclear plant at Natanz.

Already, critics of the advisory report have called it a form of unilateral
disarmament.

''Bad idea,'' said James Lewis, the cyberexpert at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington. ''We'd be the only country in the world to
knock ourselves out of the market -- the Chinese, the Russians, the Iranians,
every criminal gang would still be out there developing attacks'' with these
flaws.

For Mr. Obama -- who in the past five years has grown dependent on the N.S.A.
for countering terrorist threats, and dependent on Cyber Command for buying time
to deal with Iran and other long-term adversaries -- the choices he makes in the
next few weeks may well define America's approach to national security long
after his term is over.

But it is a major balancing act between a security system that he has come to
depend on and principles of privacy that he has said are dear to him.

One of the five experts in the advisory group, Michael Morell, says the task is
possible. ''We are not in any way recommending the disarming of the intelligence
community,'' said Mr. Morell, who retired over the summer as deputy director of
the C.I.A.

But that is different from saying the choices are cost free. ''Both of these
have operational impact; there is no question about that,'' Michael Hayden, a
former director of both the N.S.A. and the C.I.A., said Thursday. ''For sure,
there are other values than just intelligence collection. Those may be worth it.
But there is no doubt that this will make the collection of intelligence slower
and more difficult.''

The advisory group is not the only one weighing and shaping Mr. Obama's choices.
His top counterterrorism aide, Lisa Monaco, is briefing him regularly about an
interagency review that deals with many of the same issues as the outside
advisory group. ''Not all of their recommendations were things we had focused
on, and not everything we are focusing on in our review is necessarily addressed
in their report,'' a senior administration official said Thursday.

The administration expects to accept ''a good number'' of the advisory group
recommendations, the official said, and will ''perhaps reject others.''

While few in the White House want to admit as much in public, none of this would
have happened without the revelations by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A.
contractor now in asylum in Russia. While Mr. Obama has said he welcomes the
debate about the proper limits on the N.S.A., it is not one he engaged in
publicly until the Snowden revelations began. Now the president has little
choice -- this week alone a constellation of forces is pushing for change: A
federal judge called the bulk-collection program ''almost Orwellian,'' while
some in Congress, many of his allies and Silicon Valley executives demanded
change.

Those represent very different pressures. Mr. Obama has already said that bulk
collection of telephone records should continue. The unresolved question is
whether he agrees with the advisory committee that the records should remain in
private hands -- either the telecommunications companies or a private consortium
-- and that individual court authorizations should be required for every use of
metadata.

While Mr. Obama can deal with some of those issues by executive order, others
would doubtless require congressional action -- and even his own party is deeply
divided about how much leeway the N.S.A. should have.

Mr. Obama has already acted on another recommendation, albeit quietly: The
N.S.A. and the director of national intelligence are no longer able to monitor
the cellphones and emails of leaders of other nations without White House
approval. That does not mean no national leaders will be tapped; as Zbigniew
Brzezinski said Thursday on MSNBC's ''Morning Joe,'' ''They are the ones we
should be listening to.''

But now that one such operation has blown up in the N.S.A.'s hands -- the
monitoring of Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany -- Mr. Obama has begun to
weigh their potential benefits against the huge diplomatic and economic costs if
they are exposed. ''The president has made it clear he never wants to be
blindsided by one of these again,'' one of his aides said. Under the advisory
group's proposal he would not be: He would have to approve such operations.

The president is also the one who must approve the use of cyberweapons. Gen.
Keith Alexander, who leads both the N.S.A. and Cyber Command, said there were
only ''a handful or less'' such attacks conducted by the United States. But
designing the stealthiest cyberweapons occupies thousands of specialists and
costs billions of dollars.

The pressure to rein them in is coming from industry, which fears that the
N.S.A.'s abilities to crack data encryption and bore into foreign computer
systems and the cloud will scare away business across Europe and Asia. Mr. Obama
must now make a choice: to keep building the world's most sophisticated
cyberarsenal, or pare back for fear of harming American competitiveness.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/12/20/us/politics/obama-weighing-security-and-privac
y-in-deciding-on-spy-program-limits.html

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, at the Capitol on
Tuesday, has expressed doubts that any congressional limits on spy programs
would go far enough. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 20, 2013 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Legacy in the Balance On Surveillance Policies

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER; Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1136 words


WASHINGTON -- For President Obama, the proposed overhaul of the American
surveillance state confronts him with a fundamental choice: Will he become the
commander in chief many expected in 2008 or remain the one he became in 2009? Or
is there a balance in between?

At the heart of the report by a White House advisory group is a challenge to Mr.
Obama's conception of his presidency. A candidate who promised to reverse what
he saw as excesses in the war against terrorists wound up preserving and even
amplifying many of the policies he inherited. With his last election behind him,
he is being challenged to decide if that is still the right approach.

''Whether he implements these recommendations will go a long way toward
determining the legacy of his presidency,'' said Anthony D. Romero, the
executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union. ''My own sense is the
president is deeply conflicted about where's the right place to end up. He's
still at his core a constitutional lawyer who understands the importance of
these issues, but the realpolitik of the office set in rather quickly.''

Developed in response to the revelations by a former National Security Agency
contractor, Edward J. Snowden, the report urged the president to ratchet back
the expansive intelligence apparatus that evolved under President George W. Bush
and continued to grow under Mr. Obama. In effect, the 46 recommendations would
constrain some of the autonomy the N.S.A. has come to enjoy and force greater
attention to privacy and civil liberties concerns.

But Mr. Obama must decide whether such a recalibration would unreasonably
increase the risk of terrorists slipping through the surveillance net. For all
of his campaign speeches, that was a risk he was not willing to take once in
office. Yet in recent months, he has discussed eventually ending the war on
terrorism.

The report in some ways captures Mr. Obama's internal conflicts. After Mr.
Snowden began leaking information about secret programs, Mr. Obama initially
seemed surprised that the public did not trust him to use them appropriately.

Over the weeks and months that followed, according to both public statements and
advisers who have spoken with him privately, he seemed to pivot more toward the
notion that greater trust had to be built into the system. The report, which he
plans to take with him when he leaves Friday for vacation in Hawaii, represents
''kind of who he would be if he were not in the position he was in,'' one
adviser said.

''My sense is that on the one hand, the president's own personal instincts are
reasonably civil libertarian in general and that in his heart of hearts he
resonates with the call for more aggressive protection of privacy and individual
liberty,'' said the adviser, who requested anonymity to discuss Mr. Obama's
thinking. ''On the other hand, my sense is that like every president, when he
finds himself ultimately responsible for the safety of the nation, the stakes
get raised in ways one can barely imagine.''

How much Mr. Obama embraces the report seems uncertain. He has already rejected
a recommendation to separate the leadership of the N.S.A. and the United States
Cyber Command. But after appointing the group and making its report public, Mr.
Obama will be hard pressed not to adopt some of it.

''How does a president say, 'I disagree with my review group'?'' asked Michael
Allen, a former Bush aide and author of ''Blinking Red,'' a new book on the
creation of the intelligence architecture after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
''It needs to be seen at the very least as, 'I'm largely or in some nonsymbolic
way taking most of what they're offering.' ''

Mr. Allen, now managing director of Beacon Global Strategies, said such pressure
may cause Mr. Obama to go too far and open the country up to more danger. ''I
fear they will say something like, 'We need to make a major course correction,'
'' he said.

Mr. Obama came into office having run against Mr. Bush's first term but
inheriting his second. Before leaving office, Mr. Bush had already moderated his
counterterrorism program in hopes that it would survive his presidency. He
stopped waterboarding, emptied secret C.I.A. prisons, transferred many prisoners
at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, and secured bipartisan legislation on detention,
interrogation and surveillance.

When he took over, Mr. Obama made further adjustments but kept much of the
program intact and, when it came to drone strikes, even expanded it. His
thinking was further shaped during his first presidential Christmas in Hawaii,
when an extremist tried to take down an airliner with explosives in his
underwear.

''I think Obama in some ways is more authoritarian than Bush on these privacy
issues,'' said Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, a Republican critic who said
disclosures about N.S.A. programs were far more alarming than he had ever
anticipated.

White House officials reject such characterizations, but the momentum to revamp
N.S.A. rules comes at a time when Mr. Obama also faces other decisions on how
much to shift course. Allies are pressing him to support the release of a
comprehensive Senate report on the history of interrogations and torture. The
president is also left to decide how much to scale back drone strikes as he
signaled he planned to do in a speech this year.

Adm. Dennis C. Blair, Mr. Obama's first director of national intelligence, said
the president should take a deeper look at national security policies beyond
simply surveillance. ''Appointing this commission on one small aspect of an
important issue for American democracy is a typical small-ball play by this
administration,'' he said. ''When the administration asks for a debate, it
doesn't really want it. What we need is a debate about what level of security we
want traded off against what level of privacy we want to maintain.''

Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said Mr. Obama has been too passive
in explaining his rationale to the public. ''Most presidents would have now
given a speech and said, 'O.K., here's what the recommendations are; here's what
I think we ought to do,' '' Mr. McCain said. ''Instead, it just came out.
There's not a translation of facts and events to remedies that the president
supports.''

Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Obama will do that in
January after digesting the report. The review, Mr. Carney said, ''reflects a
view here that we can and should make changes that are consistent with our need
to maintain security for the United States and the American people and our
allies, to combat the threats that exist, but that allow for us to provide more
assurance to the American people that there are safeguards against abuse and
that there is oversight in place.''

Where he will fall along that spectrum will be decided on the beaches of Oahu.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/12/20/us/a-legacy-in-the-balance-on-surveillance-pol
icies.html

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A White House advisory group's report on surveillance poses a
challenge to Barack Obama's conception of his presidency. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
GABRIELLA DEMCZUK/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 20, 2013 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hagel Criticizes Chinese Navy, Citing Near Miss

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 633 words


WASHINGTON -- The Chinese Navy has been ''irresponsible,'' and its actions risk
escalating tensions with the United States, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said
Thursday in the highest-level rebuke of Beijing since a Chinese warship came
dangerously close to an American guided missile cruiser this month.

Naval vessels from the two countries came close to colliding in the South China
Sea on Dec. 5, when a Chinese warship cut across the bow of an American cruiser,
the Cowpens.

The defense secretary said that the two ships came within 100 yards of each
other, and Pentagon officials disclosed that the Cowpens had to carry out
emergency maneuvers to avoid hitting the Chinese vessel.

Mr. Hagel, at a Pentagon news conference, said the decision by the Chinese
warship ''was not a responsible action.''

''It was unhelpful,'' he said. ''It was irresponsible.''

''What we don't want is some miscalculation here to occur,'' Mr. Hagel added,
and he warned that a near collision ''could be a trigger or a spark that could
set off some eventual miscalculation.''

Chinese officials said their vessel was following protocol and handled the
episode in an appropriate fashion.

There is precedent for high-level concern. In 2001, a collision between a
Chinese jet fighter and a Navy surveillance plane in international airspace
killed the Chinese pilot, resulted in the 11-day detention of the 24-member
American crew and ruptured bilateral relations for months. American officials
said the Chinese pilot was flying recklessly close, a charge denied by Beijing.

The Cowpens episode, in international waters, occurred after the Chinese
declared an air defense identification zone over a disputed area. That move was
criticized as likely to increase tensions with Japan and South Korea, which have
overlapping claims, as well as with the United States.

Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said that the
rules of engagement in the region had not been amended since the near collision.
But he said American forces were watching for other potential provocative
action.

''We remain alert for changes in the environment,'' General Dempsey said.
''There are times that are more sensitive than others. And we're in a heightened
period of sensitivity, and you can count on our mariners and airmen to be aware
of that.''

When the Chinese warship cut in front of the Cowpens, the American cruiser was
watching China's new aircraft carrier, the Liaoning, as it made its first voyage
in the South China Sea from its home base in Qingdao, the headquarters of
China's North Sea Fleet.

Asked to assess the level of American concern over China's fielding of an
aircraft carrier -- a refurbished older vessel bought from Ukraine -- General
Dempsey noted that the Chinese were ''a long way from being a threat to us with
their aircraft carrier.''

Senior Pentagon officials express greater concern over the Chinese military's
focus on long-range bombs and missiles designed at least in part to deny
American forces' access to waters closer to China. The Pentagon, to counter, is
investing heavily in weapons and defenses to preserve the ability of American
warships and warplanes to operate where they want.

Both Mr. Hagel and General Dempsey called for continued military-to-military
talks with the Chinese to defuse tensions. The goal, General Dempsey said, ''was
to come to a common agreement about rules of behavior when we encounter each
other in three particular domains: air, sea and cyber.''

American government officials have said that computer hackers operating from
China -- either officially or with the knowledge, and even encouragement, of the
government in Beijing -- have been energetically seeking to steal American
national security and economic secrets by hacking computer networks in the
United States.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/12/20/world/asia/hagel-criticizes-chinese-navy-citin
g-near-miss.html

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, left, and Gen. Martin E. Dempsey,
chairman of the Joint Chiefs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 20, 2013 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

James's No. 6 Is Again No. 1 In Jersey Sales

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 217 words


MIAMI -- LeBron James was relaxing with his wife not long ago when he looked
around and was stunned to see someone wearing his Miami Heat No. 6 jersey. The
couple were on their honeymoon in Venice.

''It's kind of crazy, honestly,'' said James, the N.B.A.'s reigning most
valuable player. ''There's a 'wow' factor.''

James again tops the league's list of best-selling jerseys in the newest
rankings, released Thursday. It is his fifth time leading the list.

The rankings are based on overall sales from Adidas and NBAStore.com in the
fourth quarter of this year, along with Black Friday and Cyber Monday holiday
sales -- both of which set records, the league said.

Kobe Bryant of the Los Angeles Lakers is No. 2 on the list, followed by Derrick
Rose of the Chicago Bulls, Kevin Durant of the Oklahoma City Thunder and Carmelo
Anthony of the Knicks.

Stephen Curry of the Golden State Warriors is on the list for the first time, at
No. 6. Other first-timers include James Harden of the Houston Rockets (No. 12)
and Paul George of the Indiana Pacers (No. 14).

Michael Carter-Williams of the Philadelphia 76ers is the lone rookie, at No. 15.

After Curry, the Heat's Dwyane Wade is at No. 7, followed by Chris Paul of the
Los Angeles Clippers, Kyrie Irving of the Cleveland Cavaliers and Blake Griffin
of the Clippers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/12/20/sports/basketball/nba-roundup.html

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            December 20, 2013 Friday

S.E.C. Mired in Tensions Over Mortgage Cases

BYLINE: CHAD BRAY and MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2218 words



HIGHLIGHT: Internal tension at the S.E.C. raises questions about whether the
agency could have done even more after the crisis to hold Wall Street
accountable. | What the jurors in the Michael S. Steinberg case thought. | How
real people hurt by the Stratton Oakmont scandal fared. | Ronald O.
Perelman&#8217;s donation to the NYU Langone Medical Center.


  |  TENSION AT S.E.C. OVER MORTGAGE CASES  After months of investigating the
role of Goldman Sachs, Wells Fargo and others in troubled mortgage securities -
and even warning that enforcement actions were possible - the Securities and
Exchange Commission shelved those cases and at least two others.

Behind that decision was a a series of arguments about whether Wall Street's top
regulator had evidence strong enough to prevail at trial, DealBook's Peter Eavis
and Ben Protess report. That internal tension raises questions about whether the
agency could have done even more after the crisis to hold Wall Street
accountable.

Some of those decisions traced to concerns about the evidence, with senior
officials questioning whether the investigators' devotion to the cases had
colored their judgments. Other times, the decisions came down to dollars and
cents.

INSIDE THE STEINBERG TRIAL JURY ROOM After more than nine hours of
deliberations, the 12 jurors couldn't decide whether Michael S. Steinberg, a
former top trader at SAC Capital Advisors, explicitly knew that his subordinate
was giving him illegal tips.

But on Wednesday, the group had a breakthrough, and by 2:59 p.m. voted to
convict the onetime hedge fund executive of five counts of insider trading,
DealBook's Alexandra Stevenson and Rachel Abrams report.

Interviews with five of the 12 jurors - a diverse group that included two
accountants and a former postal worker - showed that they had grappled with the
financial jargon of a complicated Wall Street insider trading case.

Their decision has given federal prosecutors both a victory and more confidence
in their broad-ranging campaign against insider trading, White Collar Watch's
Peter J. Henning writes. It was a hard-fought win, especially since Mr.
Steinberg was a fourth-level recipient of insider information who never dealt
with any of its original sources.

THE INVESTORS' SIDE OF 'THE WOLF OF WALL STREET' The tale of Jordan Belfort is
hitting movie theaters on Christmas Day, as Leonardo DiCaprio and Martin
Scorsese retell how the broker swindled thousands of investors out of more than
$100 million in a boiler room scam.

But left untold in "The Wolf of Wall Street" is the story of his victims,
disparaged as "garbage" in the movie, Susan Antilla writes in DealBook. For
many, including small-business owners and insurance agents, the film's publicity
has brought back old pain.

That's not the only element missing from the cinematic romp. Joe Nocera writes
in The New York Times that "The Wolf of Wall Street" doesn't touch on the part
of the finance industry that caused the financial crisis.
"Firms like Stratton Oakmont can't bring the financial system to the precipice,"
Mr. Nocera writes, adding that using the brokerage as a proxy for Wall Street
"doesn't begin to get at Wall Street's sins."

PERELMAN GIVES $50 MILLION TO HOSPITAL Ronald O. Perelman's visit to his
father-in-law at the hospital last year opened his eyes and inspired his latest
bout of philanthropy.

The financier announced on Thursday that he would donate $50 million to finish
the construction of an expanded emergency department for the NYU Langone Medical
Center in Lower Manhattan, Ms. Abrams reports.

"I just don't think it's fair to the people who lived down there to have to go
all the way up to New York hospital at 72nd Street to get emergency treatment,"
Mr. Perelman said in an interview.

 |  Contact: @m_delamerced | E-mail

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

Mergers & Acquisitions »

$2.4 Billion Deal for Hong Kong Wireless Business  |  The billionaire Richard Li
is raising his bet on telecommunications, agreeing on Friday to acquire CSL New
World Mobility from Australia's Telstra.
DealBook »

Jazz Pharmaceuticals to Buy Gentium for $1 Billion  |  Jazz Pharmaceuticals has
agreed to acquire Gentium, a developer of treatments for rare diseases, in a
deal valued at about $1 billion.
DealBook »

Calculating the Benefits of a Charter-Time Warner Cable Deal  |  Executives at
Liberty Media, whose chairman, John Malone, owns 27 percent of Charter
Communications, believe a Charter tie-up with Time Warner Cable could achieve
about $700 million in annual cost savings, Reuters reports.
Reuters

Hershey Goes to China for Its Biggest-Ever Deal  |  Hershey announced on
Thursday that it had agreed to buy an 80 percent stake in Shanghai Golden Monkey
for about $584 million.
DealBook »

Red Lobster to Be Split From Darden's Empire  |  Darden Restaurants announced
that it would jettison its Red Lobster chain, one of several steps it said it
would take to bolster its stock value.
DealBook »

E.ON Considering Sale of Spanish Businesses  |  The German utility E.ON
considers selling its Spanish businesses, Reuters reports.
Reuters

Trouble Assessing JPMorgan's Commodities Unit  |  Potential bidders for a
commodities trading business owned by JPMorgan Chase, which include some of its
closest rivals, say the bank is declining to release information about the unit,
making it difficult to value the operation, The Financial Times writes.
Financial Times

Evonik Invited to Make New Bid For LTS Lohmann  |  Reuters writes: "The owners
of German medical skin patch maker LTS Lohmann have invited Evonik to make a new
bid for the company after finding final offers from other bidders
unsatisfactory."
Reuters

Italian Post Office to Invest 75 Million Euros in Alitalia  |  Poste Italiane,
the state-owned company that runs the Italian postal system, will pay 75 million
euros, or about $103 million, to take a stake in the airline Alitalia, The Wall
Street Journal reports.
Wall Street Journal

Deal to Give Daimler Stake in Aston Martin  |  Daimler will get as much as a 5
percent stake in Aston Martin as part of a deal to supply the British sports
carmaker with engines and other components, Reuters writes.
Reuters

Panasonic to Form Joint Venture With Israeli Firm  |  The Panasonic Corporation
and the Israeli chipmaker TowerJazz are forming a joint venture to manufacture
computer chips for automobiles and products, Reuters reports.
Reuters

Real Estate Trusts in $4.34 Billion Merger  |  Essex Property Trust, a
residential real estate investment trust with a strong California presence, has
agreed to acquire BRE Properties.
DealBook »

INVESTMENT BANKING »

Not So Fast on Volcker Rule, Regulators Tell Smaller Banks  |  Just three days
after Zions Bancorporation took a $387 million charge to rid itself of
trust-preferred C.D.O.'s, regulators said other banks need not necessarily do
the same.
DealBook »

Loophole Slowly Tightens on a Bank  |  It wasn't bad loans that created big
losses for Zions Bankcorporation, it was ill-fated and ill-timed financial
innovation, Floyd Norris of The New York Times writes.
New York Times

Fed to Remain Large Player in Mortgage Security Market  |  The Federal Reserve
will continue to play a large role in the mortgage security market despite
efforts to shrink its buying of bonds, The Wall Street Journal reports.
Wall Street Journal

Deal on Banking Union Will Test Goal of United Europe  |  The effort to create a
banking union has highlighted how difficult it is to act ambitiously for a bloc
that has grown from six to 28 member states, The International New York Times
writes.
International New York Times

Lloyds and R.B.S. Seek to Regain Independence   |  The Lloyds Banking Group and
the Royal Bank of Scotland are on much different paths as they seek to gain
independence from the British government five years after their bailouts during
the financial crisis, Reuters reports.
Reuters

Credit Suisse Gains a Top Energy Banker  |  Brian McCabe is leaving Morgan
Stanley and joining the Swiss investment bank as co-head of its Americas oil and
gas group. He will be based in Houston.
DealBook »

Citi to Move Headquarters to Lower Manhattan  |  Citigroup has agreed to move
its global headquarters to Greenwich Street in Lower Manhattan in a $1 billion
real estate deal, Crain's New York reports.
Crains New York

PRIVATE EQUITY »

Jones Group to Be Bought Out by Sycamore  |  The Jones Group, which owns brands
including Nine West, Anne Klein and Easy Spirit, will be acquired by Sycamore
Partners for $2.2 billion, including the assumption of debt.
DealBook »

Carlyle Takes Stake in Indian Health Care Company  |  The private equity firm
the Carlyle Group is taking a stake in Global Health, an Indian health care
provider, Reuters reports.
Reuters

Investors Cutting Ties With ConvergEx After Plea  |  After paying a $150 million
fine and a guilty plea by a subsidiary related to charges of "fleecing" of
clients, several large investors have redirected their trading activity from
ConvergEx, which is controlled by the private equity firm GTCR and Bank of New
York Mellon, The Financial Times reports.
Financial Times

Invesco Manager to Join Britain's Oakley Capital  |  Neil Woodford, head of
British equities at Invesco Perpetual, has agreed to join the British private
equity firm Oakley Capital in May in an unspecified role, The Financial Times
reports.
Financial Times

HEDGE FUNDS »

Skowron to Repay Morgan Stanley After Guilty Plea  |  A federal judge ordered
the former Morgan Stanley fund manager Joseph Skowron to repay $31 million in
compensation as part of a clawback lawsuit by the bank after he pleaded guilty
to insider trading two years ago, Bloomberg News reports.
Bloomberg

BlackRock Raising $3 Billion For Credit Fund  |  BlackRock is looking to raise
as much as $3 billion for a new hedge fund to focus on investing in the credit
markets, Bloomberg News reports.
Bloomberg

Tiger Asia Hedge Fund Ordered to Repay $5.8 Million Over Illegal Trading  |
Tiger Asia, a regional arm of the New York-based hedge fund Tiger Management,
admitted that it had received advanced notice in late 2008 and early 2009 that
two Chinese banks were planning share placements.
DealBook »

Can General Electric Keep Activist Investors at Bay?  |  Size offers no
immunity, and the conglomerate has been proactively restructuring in ways that
could wisely head off investor pressure, writes Rob Cox of Reuters
Breakingviews.
DealBook »

BlueCrest Capital Taps Bank Loan to Fund Expansion  |  BlueCrest Capital
Management received a $750 million bank loan earlier this year as part of a
rapid expansion of the European hedge fund, Bloomberg News reports.

Bloomberg

I.P.O./OFFERINGS »

China Everbright Bank Shares Fall on Trading Debut  |  The trading slump came
after the bank raised $3 billion in Hong Kong's biggest initial public offering
of the year, and despite generally strong market receptions for new Chinese
share sales in recent weeks.
DealBook »

VENTURE CAPITAL »

Overstock.com to Accept Bitcoin Payments  |  Overstock.com is planning to accept
payments from Bitcoin, making it the first large online retailer in the United
States to accept the virtual currency, The Financial Times reports.
Financial Times

China's Central Bank Targeted in Cyber Attack  |  The Times of London writes:
"China's central bank is thought to have been targeted yesterday in a revenge
cyber-attack by investors infuriated at government attempts to destroy the local
Bitcoin market."
Times of London

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

Ocwen Financial Agrees to $2.2 Billion Settlement  |  Ocwen Financial said on
Thursday that it had agreed to pay the $2.2 billion to settle accusations that
it improperly handled the loans of homeowners after the financial crisis.
DealBook »

Deutsche Bank Securities Is Fined $6.5 Million  |  The Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority has fined Deutsche Bank Securities $6.5 million over
"serious financial and operational deficiencies primarily related to its
enhanced lending program."
DealBook »

Ex-Microsoft Employee Charged With Insider Trading  |  The Seattle Times writes:
"A former Microsoft finance manager and his day-trading friend appeared in
federal court Thursday on charges they used insider information to raise seed
money for their dream of owning a hedge fund."
Seattle Times

Banks Turning in Competitors in Currency Trading Inquiry  |  Banks are turning
in their competitors in hopes of avoiding fines in an European Union
investigations into potential manipulation of the currency trading markets,
Bloomberg News reports.
Bloomberg

Italy Investigating Reorganization of Telecom Italia's Holding Company  |
Reuters writes: "Rome prosecutors are investigating the reorganization of the
shareholding of Telco, the holding company that controls Telecom Italia, the
chief prosecutor said."
Reuters

Ex-Stock Broker Pleads Guilty to Insider Trading  |  David Weishaus, a former
stock broker, pleaded guilty to a conspiracy charge in a scheme to improperly
trade ahead of the announcement of a $1.2 billion acquisition by IBM in 2009,
Reuters reports.
Reuters

Forbes Family in Tax Dispute Over Former Headquarters  |  The Wall Street
Journal writes: "Steve Forbes and members of his family are enmeshed in a tax
dispute with the Internal Revenue Service tied to their publishing company's
former New York headquarters, documents filed in U.S. Tax Court reveal."
Wall Street Journal

S.&P. Pulls AAA Rating From E.U.  |  Standard & Poor's has downgraded the
European Union from triple A to AA-plus, citing continued financial concerns and
disagreements about its budget, The Financial Times writes.
Financial Times

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 236 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Sinosphere)

                            December 22, 2013 Sunday

Q. and A.: U.S. Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker on China Trade Talks

BYLINE: JONATHAN ANSFIELD

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1642 words



HIGHLIGHT: Following annual trade and commerce talks with China, a senior Obama
administration official discusses hopes for economic reforms announced in a
Communist Party conference last month and progress on a government procurement
deal and protection of trade secret and patents.


Since a key Communist Party conference issued a plan in November to advance
market reforms, a series of foreign envoys have rolled through China seeking to
capitalize on some of its more business-friendly initiatives. Top American trade
officials took the same tack during talks in Beijing last week, but made clear
afterward that it would take time for United States businesses to reap dividends
from the conference, known as the Third Plenum.

"We've made some progress during these meetings, but the fact is, we still have
more work on critical issues if we are to further develop our economic
relationship," Penny Pritzker, the United States commerce secretary, said Friday
at the conclusion of the annual United States-China Joint Commission on Commerce
and Trade, or JCCT. "That said, we understand that the Third Plenum was just
completed. We are encouraged by the sentiments and interested to see how that
translates into real reform."

Besides perennial frictions over a bulging trade deficit and food and drug
shipments deemed unsafe, technology giants from both countries find their sales
pinched in part by allegations that they are conduits for cyberespionage by
their governments.

But in one positive signal at the meeting, China agreed to submit a revised
offer in 2014 to join a World Trade Organization pact that helps foreign
companies compete for government purchases on equal terms. A deputy Chinese
commerce minister, Wang Chao, said China would present terms basically on par
with those of the 42 other nations that have joined the Government Procurement
Agreement, or GPA. China's past offers excluded local governments and
state-owned enterprises, which account for the vast bulk of orders, and failed
to satisfy the United States and the European Union. A breakthrough would
promise "significant opportunities for U.S. companies," said Michael Froman, the
United States trade representative.

Chinese officials also made vague promises to promote American beef exports to
China, which were banned in 2003 due to concerns over mad cow disease and
hampered in recent years by discord over the terms of restarting the trade. Last
month, the two countries discussed resuming beef imports from United States
cattle up to 30 months old. Mr. Froman said further discussions last week on
"opening China's market to high-quality U.S. beef exports" were "constructive."

After the talks concluded on Friday night, Ms. Pritzker retired to a boardroom
of the Grand Hyatt in central Beijing - one in the global chain of hotels that
her family built and controls - for a round of interviews. An edited transcript
of her discussion with The New York Times follows:

Q.

The Chinese telecom giant Huawei recently suggested it might back off the
American market after a congressional probe concluded that it posed national
security risks. Meanwhile, Cisco, IBM, and other United States tech corporations
have suffered drop-offs in sales in China and condemnation in state media, as
backlash from the Huawei case and disclosures by the National Security Agency
contractor Edward J. Snowden compound the pressures of competing with indigenous
products. What did you say to Chinese officials about these cases?

A.

Well, here's what I can say, because it's a very weedy question. But I'm going
to start with, you know, each of the specific issues that companies asked us to
raise with the Chinese government. We did that, and we're in conversations to
try to help resolve some of these problems. And they recognize they're very
important to us, how they treat our companies. But the specifics of what we're
doing with each one, I'm really not at liberty to go into. We need to work those
through. But it's very, very important, and they recognize that.

Q.

What did you come away with at this round of talks?

A.

When you talk over a couple of days, over several dozen issues in depth with
someone, you begin to get to know each other, and then that begins to develop
the relationship and the trust. And I think one of the things that we left with,
and certainly I did, was an agreement with Vice Premier Wang Yang and also with
Minister Gao Hucheng that, you know, anytime there's an issue, pick up the phone
and let's talk about it. Because one of the things that we need to do is to make
sure that we don't end up making major miscalculations because we don't
understand various issues. And we had one instance today in terms one of the
things that we were negotiating, there was a complete misunderstanding as to
what the facts on the ground were. And these are the kinds of situations where
we need to be able to talk to each other. So I feel we made a lot of technical
progress - well, we made technical progress on some issues today - but we made a
lot of progress I think in relationship-building over the last 48 hours.

Q.

What technical progress did you make?

A.

Three things that I think where we made progress are around trade secrets,
government procurement and the patent protection.

On trade secrets and intellectual property protection, the Chinese agreed to
make it a priority to look at - they have some antiquated laws that have not
been addressed since their admission to the WTO - to look at those laws, as well
as to engage in greater enforcement of the laws, but to update some of their IPR
[intellectual property] laws. And so that's, I think, significant.

The second is that they agreed on government procurement in 2014 to make a
WTO-compliant proposal comparable to what other countries have agreed to.

And third, on patent protection, is to not invalidate patents. And then also to
work on current outstanding patent issues with a number of companies where their
patents have been invalidated, to address those.

Q.

Which companies' cases were addressed on the patent issue?

A.

I don't know if we're at liberty to share the specific companies.

Q.

What's the context of this new Chinese agreement to protect trade secrets and
what connection is there to the finger-pointing over cyberespionage?

A.

Well, there's all kinds of issues. No, this has gone on for longer than that and
it's broader than cyber-espionage. ... I think what's happened is the Chinese
have appreciated that's what they want to do. As they said to us, you know,
we're not doing this because of you. We're doing this also to protect our own
innovators. So we need to update our laws so that intellectual property is
protected because they're having their own innovators want this.

Q.

What did Chinese officials say to you in private about their long-time calls for
relaxed restrictions on high-tech American exports to China?

A.

Well, we talked about one of the pieces, the Wassenaar Arrangement, where we
globally agreed to make more high-tech equipment available, and China benefits
from that. And so the fact that China was not excluded I think is significant.
They appreciated that very much.

Q.

Did you discuss work on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) to create a
free-trade zone in the region and how China views that and the United States
pivot to Asia, given the suggestions that China is more open to TPP than was
originally thought?

A.

In our negotiations, it did not come up. ... I think right now, from the United
States standpoint, we're interested in trying to get TPP with the 12 countries
that we've got. And one of the things I know from being in the private sector is
it's hard enough to negotiate between two individuals. Imagine negotiating 12
countries, and not just 12 parties, but 12 countries, and all the myriad of
issues. And I think there's something on the order of 26 or 29 chapters in TPP.
So the goal right now is to try and get TPP with 12 countries finished. It's
open architecture. So the BIT [United States-China Bilateral Investment Treaty]
is a good stepping stone for China, and the fact that the aspirations expressed
in the Third Party Plenum are also things that could help them if they're
interested in TPP in the future.

Q.

In July, after a four-year hiatus, China agreed to restart talks on a BIT that
would encompass all sectors except those on a "negative list." What are the main
sticking points standing in the way of the United States-China Bilateral
Investment Treaty now that the negotiations have restarted?

A.

Well, there's new momentum since the S&ED [Strategic and Economic Dialogue
meetings in July], and that's something that we're focused on and both countries
want to capitalize on the momentum. But that's a process and there's a lot of
issues to work through. But it was not, per se, a topic of our JCCT.

Q.

What were your impressions of Prime Minister Li Keqiang?

A.

My impressions were that he was very supportive of our JCCT, of our dialogue and
of the directions that we were going, and I think that he supported the issues
that we said we were going to try to accomplish, so I think that was very
positive.

Q.

How does the Third Plenum change the calculus of United States-China trade
talks?

A.

You know, as I look at the Third Party Plenum, one of the things that I think is
important is that China has set out its aspirations, and one of the things that
we try to do with the JCCT is explain, here are various issues that are
consistent with what your aspirations are in the Third Party Plenum. And Vice
Premier Wang Yang took great note of that. I think by midday today, he did tell
us that he thought we knew the Third Party Plenum better than they did. [Laughs]
... I'm encouraged that the Third Party Plenum seems very consistent with the
direction that we're going with the JCCT on a number of issues.


     ·    Obama's Choice for China Envoy a Longtime Free Trade Advocate
     ·    Part II: Adam Minter on China's Scrap Trade and the Environment
     ·    Q. & A.: Adam Minter on Why China's Scrap Trade Helps the Environment
     ·    Gary Locke to Leave as U.S. Ambassador to China
     ·    Hugh White on 'The China Choice'


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
