
                               1 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 4, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

So You Want to Be a Cybersleuth?

BYLINE: By CECILIA CAPUZZI SIMON.

Cecilia Capuzzi Simon writes about education from Bethesda, Md.

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; CONTINUING ED DIGITAL
FORENSICS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1805 words


Rick Ayers doesn't look much like the geek he says he has always been. A former
golfer and rock guitarist, six feet tall, with a weight lifter's build, long
hair and a soul patch, Mr. Ayers, 37, stands out in the gray corridors of the
National Institute of Standards and Technology, the federal agency in suburban
Washington that sets standards for the measurement sciences.

Mr. Ayers did not have his full-fledged geek credentials until age 32, when he
earned a master's in computer science at the University of Tulsa. The obsessive
qualities that drove him at the tee and onstage have made him an expert in the
use of handheld devices like cellphones, BlackBerries and P.D.A.'s in solving
crimes. It is a booming specialty in the fast-growing field of digital
forensics.

It is the rare criminal who doesn't leave a digital trail, and the ubiquitous
mobile phone has become a routine piece of evidence. But it is only useful if it
is properly handled and its digital contents validated.

Cellphone sleuthing typically involves any of five jobs: extracting data from a
device involved in a crime, be it text messages (even deleted ones), address
book entries, to-do lists, pictures, audio and even the phone's location when in
use; examining that evidence; ensuring it is admissible in court; testifying as
an expert witness; and as Mr. Ayers does, testing the ''tools'' -- the software
packages -- that are used to recover the contents from a handheld device. Mr.
Ayers also writes guidelines for handling electronic gear at crime scenes so
evidence is not corrupted, and he presents his methods to computer scientists
and law enforcement agencies worldwide.

Digital forensics was an unlikely choice, and one he doubts he could have
handled as a 22-year-old who, he says, lacked the maturity to dedicate himself
to the curriculum. Educators say that a solid grounding in computer science --
how computers work, how to program, how to understand network intricacies -- is
essential to the field. Of course, not every adult bent on a career swerve into
computer forensics takes a path as winding or intense as Mr. Ayers's. Some only
pursue certification, or are already intimate with a computer's innards. Still,
Mr. Ayers's story is typical: it shows how a lifelong learner happens upon an
unforeseen opportunity, and then everything changes.

Mr. Ayers thought he had his career mapped out at age 12, when he won 15
straight golf tournaments in Arkansas and was ranked his home state's No. 1
player in his age group. Growing up at the edge of a golf course, he would hit
1,000 balls on a summer day, and he had his sights set on the P.G.A. But he
withered under the pressure of national contention and left competition at 17.
''It was a very difficult time,'' he says.

He found solace in another obsession: the 1970s glam-rock band Kiss. He took up
the guitar and joined a band as a student at Louisiana Tech University. As with
golf, Mr. Ayers set a high professional goal: ''full-blown rock star,'' he says,
laughing. He toured from Mississippi to Oregon with his group, Apache Rain, a
pretty-boy hair band that liked to explode things on stage. But after two years,
they were exhausted and barely breaking even.

Mr. Ayers moved to Tulsa and worked in telemarketing, then managed a small
computer programming team. Without a computer science degree, he topped out in
salary and job potential. He knew he needed to go back to school. ''I understood
how important it is to concentrate not on the cool things in life, but on the
things that provide you with security,'' he says. ''I didn't want to be Keith
Richards at 60.''

He enrolled part time at the University of Tulsa with about 18 courses to go to
complete a bachelor's of science degree. The course load -- programming
languages, operating and data-based systems, computer security and forensics --
gave him a broad understanding of computer science, he says. But it was a
killer, too. He continued to work full time to support himself, spending free
time studying or taking on freelance programming work; he got loans to cover
tuition. The work-school combo became overwhelming. He had to rush between
campus and his information technology job 30 miles away.

Sujeet Shenoi, a computer science professor, took notice and took Mr. Ayers
under wing. He liked his quirky background, varied interests, outgoing
personality and work ethic. He tapped him for graduate school and a federal
scholarship known as Cyber Corps, aimed at grooming students for government jobs
protecting electronic information from outside threats.

The award gave him a full ride, plus a stipend of $6,000 a semester, through two
years of his master's. He had to do a 10-week internship at a federal agency and
agree to work for the government for two years after graduation. Otherwise, the
curriculum is set by the school, and eligibility is institution-specific.

At Tulsa, aside from academic merit, Dr. Shenoi places a premium on personal
traits: passion for computer science, patriotism, communication and leadership
skills. Age, he says, does not matter. Of Tulsa's 200 Cyber Corps graduates,
more than 50 were over age 30 when enrolled; about 10 were over 50.

Mr. Ayers, who was 30 when he entered the program, felt intimidated at first by
his young classmates. ''These kids grew up with computers,'' he says. ''I grew
up with golf and guitar.'' But he learned to talk their language, surrounding
himself with the smartest and inviting them over for pizza and study sessions.
They, in turn, invited him to their parties and were eager to help. ''They knew
I worked hard,'' Mr. Ayers says (his rock-band pedigree didn't hurt, either).

If not for Cyber Corps, Mr. Ayers says, he probably wouldn't have pursued a
master's. He was able to give up his job, and immersed himself in school for two
years -- no personal life, golf or guitar. There were demanding classes to get
through, including five required certification courses. Mr. Ayers fulfilled the
internship requirement at the National Institute of Standards and Technology. He
did not expect to work in forensics. When he was recruited for a permanent post
by the institute after graduation, his job was to study ways to make computer
information more secure. But when asked if he had ideas for research, Mr. Ayers
suggested retrieving evidence from P.D.A.'s -- personal handheld devices were
popular then.

It was a nascent field in 2003. Mr. Ayers was not the first to recognize the
need to study this area, but he and a partner conducted some of the first
research and wrote the first guidelines on extracting and handling data from
handhelds. P.D.A.'s were just the tip of the iceberg. Soon the market would be
flooded with cellphones that held personal data and had computing abilities.
Today there are more than two billion mobile phones worldwide, twice the number
of personal computers, and thousands of phone models. This year, more than two
trillion text messages will be sent.

That's a lot of potential evidence. And Mr. Ayers has his work cut out for him.

''After I get through testing C.D.M.A. phones,'' he says, using tech speak for
the network used by Verizon and other brands, ''I go on to Smart phones,
iPhones, Palm-based phones, Windows phones, BlackBerries, Google's new phone.
I'll be doing this for another, I can't tell you how many years.''

Career Switching? Elementary, My Dear Watson

COMPUTER forensics used to be the backwater of information technology, but the
Internet and proliferation of cellphones opened new worlds of criminal mischief
and bolstered work and study in the field. Here's what you'll want to know about
what Gary Kessler, who teaches it at Champlain College in Vermont, calls ''the
most fun you can have with your clothes on.''

JOB PROSPECTS Employment numbers are not broken out for digital forensics, but
it may be that rare employment category on the rise in this economy: the number
of F.B.I. regional computer forensics labs grew from 3 in 2003 to 16 in 2008;
investigations handled in that time more than quintupled. ''Marketplace demand
is higher than supply,'' says Ravi Ganesan of the University of Texas, San
Antonio. The biggest employers: government, corporate information-security
departments, law enforcement agencies and law firms.Hot spots: Washington, New
York, Dallas, Houston, Chicago and Los Angeles.

EXPECTED EARNINGS Salaries start at $50,000 for digital forensic examiners.
Education, security clearances and fluency in another language can nudge
earnings up to $100,000, and higher in the private sector, where senior managers
can earn up to $200,000.

WHERE TO GET TRAINING More than 100 colleges and universities have courses in
digital forensics either as majors or, mostly, concentrations. Among leaders in
the field are the University of Tulsa, University of Texas at San Antonio,
University of Central Florida, Johns Hopkins, Carnegie Mellon, Champlain and
Purdue. A list of programs is at www.e-evidence.info/education.html.

EDUCATION SAMPLER Champlain offers a B.S. in computer and digital forensics
completely online; or take just technical classes within the major for a 15- to
24-credit certificate. Purdue has a six-class specialization in its computer
science master's and, like Tulsa, a crime lab where students solve cases.
Fairleigh Dickinson's administrative science master's includes a concentration
that can be taken separately for certification. Classes are designed for working
adults, held online, on-ground and on weekends at 50 locations in New Jersey,
including at Trump Casino in Atlantic City. To see if the field is a good fit,
try one of the one-day workshops.

Scholarships for Service

The Cyber Corps scholarship was established in 2000 to strengthen the cadre of
professionals protecting the government information infrastructure. (Ironically,
the kickoff was scheduled for Sept. 12, 2001, at the White House, an event that
never happened.)

Officially the Federal Cyber Service's Scholarship for Service
(www.sfs.opm.gov), the grant covers tuition, books, room and board plus an
$8,000-a-year stipend for up to the last two years of undergraduate study, or
$12,000 a year for up to two years of graduate school.

In return, graduates work at a federal agency for one to two years.

Cyber Corps is sponsored by the National Science Foundation, with $110 million
to date in Congressional funds, which are allocated annually.

Twenty-four institutions have been approved after a review of their security
training curriculum, including Purdue, Johns Hopkins, Syracuse and Florida State
University. So far 750 students have graduated, and 214 are currently on
scholarship. Applications are made through participating schools, which
determine individual eligibility requirements and select award recipients.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DETECTIVE AT WORK: Rick Ayers probes the contents of handheld
devices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYRONE TURNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times
                               (Nicholas Kristof)

                       January 13, 2009 Tuesday 14:23 EST

Shhhh. A Technology Secret;
Nicholas Kristof

BYLINE: NICHOLAS KRISTOF

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 334 words



HIGHLIGHT: I&#8217;m always mystified that more people don&#8217;t know about
Times Reader, which is by far the best way to read The New York Times on line. I
still prefer the physical newspaper to the cyber version, but if I&#8217;m on
the road and can&#8217;t get the newspaper then I live by Times Reader.
It&#8217;s a [&#8230;]


I'm always mystified that more people don't know about Times Reader, which is by
far the best way to read The New York Times on line. I still prefer the physical
newspaper to the cyber version, but if I'm on the road and can't get the
newspaper then I live by Times Reader. It's a 10-minute download of the entire
paper, and then it sits on your laptop and you can read it on a plane or in a
car. There's none of that infuriating waiting for a page to open, and you can
read the paper systematically from beginning to end.

But almost nobody seems to know about it. I meet lots of people around the world
who read the Times regularly through the website but don't know about Times
Reader, which is an incomparably better way of reading the paper. There is a
charge if you're not a hard copy subscriber, but it's pretty modest.

So I was pleased to see Jack Schafer of Slate also weigh inon Times Reader. It
turns out he's a huge fan, too. He discussed it in the context of a larger issue
-- the dialogue that David Carr startedabout whether newspapers can develop a
business model a bit like the one that Apple helped music companies develop --
and that's a huge and important issue. But what he said about Times Reader
reminded me that I had intended to evangelize about it and had never gotten
around to it. Here's what Shafer wrote:

In building the Times Reader, its makers thought outside the browser to create a
platform that is 150 million times more readable than the standard Web page and
450 million times more attractive than a Kindle page. A Times Reader edition
downloads in a couple of minutes and can be read offline. I'd go on with my
praise, but my review adequately explains why you should try the Times Reader.
You won't be disappointed. (The Times Reader goes for $14.95 a month. Times
subscribers get the service for free.)

Shafer also raved about Times Reader back in 2006.

Anybody out there reading this on Times Reader? Don't you find it infinitely
better than the website? Is that our future?

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (Nicholas Kristof)

                            January 13, 2009 Tuesday

Shhhh. A Technology Secret

BYLINE: NICHOLAS KRISTOF

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 334 words



HIGHLIGHT: I&#8217;m always mystified that more people don&#8217;t know about
Times Reader, which is by far the best way to read The New York Times on line. I
still prefer the physical newspaper to the cyber version, but if I&#8217;m on
the road and can&#8217;t get the newspaper then I live by Times Reader.
It&#8217;s a [&#8230;]


I'm always mystified that more people don't know about Times Reader, which is by
far the best way to read The New York Times on line. I still prefer the physical
newspaper to the cyber version, but if I'm on the road and can't get the
newspaper then I live by Times Reader. It's a 10-minute download of the entire
paper, and then it sits on your laptop and you can read it on a plane or in a
car. There's none of that infuriating waiting for a page to open, and you can
read the paper systematically from beginning to end.

But almost nobody seems to know about it. I meet lots of people around the world
who read the Times regularly through the website but don't know about Times
Reader, which is an incomparably better way of reading the paper. There is a
charge if you're not a hard copy subscriber, but it's pretty modest.

So I was pleased to see Jack Schafer of Slate also weigh inon Times Reader. It
turns out he's a huge fan, too. He discussed it in the context of a larger issue
- the dialogue that David Carr startedabout whether newspapers can develop a
business model a bit like the one that Apple helped music companies develop -
and that's a huge and important issue. But what he said about Times Reader
reminded me that I had intended to evangelize about it and had never gotten
around to it. Here's what Shafer wrote:

In building the Times Reader, its makers thought outside the browser to create a
platform that is 150 million times more readable than the standard Web page and
450 million times more attractive than a Kindle page. A Times Reader edition
downloads in a couple of minutes and can be read offline. I'd go on with my
praise, but my review adequately explains why you should try the Times Reader.
You won't be disappointed. (The Times Reader goes for $14.95 a month. Times
subscribers get the service for free.)

Shafer also raved about Times Reader back in 2006.

Anybody out there reading this on Times Reader? Don't you find it infinitely
better than the website? Is that our future?

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 16, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Janet Napolitano

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; HOMELAND SECURITY; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 402 words


President-elect Barack Obama's nominee to head the Homeland Security Department
breezed through a confirmation hearing on Thursday that one senator called a
''warm and fuzzy'' experience.

The nominee, Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona, offered few specifics at the
two-and-one-half-hour hearing, while promising to safeguard the country from
terrorists, protect its borders and strengthen the six-year-old department.

Ms. Napolitano told the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs that the department had moved  to shape itself into a cohesive agency
created from more than 22 parts. But, she said, ''our work is not finished.''

''To secure the homeland,'' she said,  ''means to protect our nation's borders
by finding and killing roots of terrorism and stop those who intend to hurt us,
to wisely enforce the rule of law at our borders, to protect our national cyber
infrastructure, and to prepare for and respond to natural and man-caused
disasters with speed, skill and effectiveness.''

Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, the Connecticut independent who heads the
committee, praised Ms. Napolitano as a ''superb choice.'' Although the agency's
performance had improved, Mr. Lieberman said, ''there were still those who
believed D.H.S. should be chopped up and its parts shipped off to other
agencies.''

''I believe that is exactly the wrong way to go,'' he added.

Ms. Napolitano seemed to agree, saying she would ''take the organization that is
here and make it better as opposed to moving around a lot of boxes on an
organization chart.''

Her genial bipartisan welcome began with her introduction, as a Democrat, by
Arizona's two Republican senators, Jon Kyl and John McCain. Mr. McCain said Ms.
Napolitano would bring her ''no nonsense'' approach as governor to the Obama
cabinet.

But it was Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, who seemed to capture
the hearing's mood  when she told Ms. Napolitano, ''It's all going to be warm
and fuzzy today,'' although she warned that after Ms. Napolitano's widely
expected confirmation there would be few such moments.

''That's going to be about it,'' Ms. McCaskill said.

Ms. Napolitano, responding to several border  and immigration questions,
suggested that she was well equipped to handle complex and hotly debated issues
through long experience as a governor and a former United States attorney in a
border state. DAVID JOHNSTON

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 1, 2009 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

His Nonlinear Reality, and Welcome to It

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2057 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


THE shoot the night before had lasted into the next day, ending around 9 a.m.
after a scene in which the perimeter of the kidney-shaped swimming pool had been
set ablaze with rubbing alcohol. So when the artist Ryan Trecartin greeted a
visitor that afternoon, sleepless for more than 24 hours, he ran his hands
through his hair and said,  ''This really isn't me.''

He meant that he wouldn't be much good for an interview. But he could just as
well have been speaking in the voice of one of the maniacally mutable characters
he plays in the videos he has been writing and directing for the last several
years, characters whose hold on identity and existence itself seems so tenuous
that they must keep talking to keep from disappearing. (''If I didn't take the
liberties to glue these prop knobs onto my safe space, who would you think that
I'd be?'' demands one, in what has become Mr. Trecartin's signature unhinged
vernacular: phrases that sound like something you might have heard before, on
television or the Web, but haven't.)

Mr. Trecartin (pronounced tra-KAR-tun) was creating these characters more or
less for himself and a band of friends and collaborators from the Rhode Island
School of Design when one of his works, posted on his Friendster page, was seen
in 2005 by the artist Sue de Beer, who brought it to the attention of a curator
at the New Museum in Manhattan. In stunningly short order, even for an art world
then still moving at breakneck speed, his work was everywhere: the 2006 Whitney
Biennial, the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, the Saatchi Gallery in
London, the collection of the Guggenheim Museum. And his most ambitious work to
date, the movie-length ''I-Be Area,'' which made its debut in 2007 at the
Elizabeth Dee Gallery in Chelsea, was greeted with a kind of joyous critical
consensus rarely seen in the art world.

Mr. Trecartin, a friendly, loquacious, boyish-looking man who grew up in a
steel-mill family in rural Ohio and who counts the Disney Channel and ''Dirty
Dancing'' among his important artistic inspirations, was only 26 years old.

So there has been a lot of anticipation about what he will come up with next.
And for the last five months Mr. Trecartin, now 28, has been working long hours
to meet it in a slightly ramshackle Spanish-mission-style house on the edge of
the Little Haiti neighborhood here that he has rented for $2,000 a month and
that serves as set, dormitory, editing suite, sculpture studio and site of a
kind of continuous  happening. The work that emerges -- conceived now as a
trilogy, two parts video and the third a performance -- will take him back to
the institution  that helped discover him, the New Museum, where the video
portions will be a key part of ''Younger Than Jesus,'' the museum's first
installment of a new triennial that will focus on the work of artists under 33,
opening on April 8.

The raw material for Mr. Trecartin's new work is what is happening to the world
economy as financial institutions implode and the mechanisms of capitalism and
credit falter. So the house he has adopted as his temporary home is fitting: it
is near the city's Design District, which has become an art-world hot spot in
recent years, but in a rapidly changing middle-class neighborhood now dotted
with foreclosure signs amid the crabgrass.

Even the reason he came to Miami plays well into his story line about
transition. He originally arrived to make a smaller project at the request of
the nonprofit Moore Space here, founded by the prominent collectors Rosa de la
Cruz and Craig Robins, but they closed the space unexpectedly in October, in an
example of the reordering that is beginning to unfold in the art world.

So with help from his gallery, collectors, the New Museum and several of his own
beleaguered credit cards, he rented the house and began making sets and costumes
with his friend and closest collaborator, Lizzie Fitch, and others. As filming
began, he welcomed a steady stream of friends and regulars, along with
professional actors -- considerably more than he has used before, drawn partly
from the child and teenage performers in Orlando, home of Walt Disney World and
Universal Studios.

When a reporter arrived at the house the day after the all-night shoot, Ms.
Fitch was still asleep in the pool house, and the sun-splashed backyard was
strewn with what looked like the aftermath of a small riot or a ritual for a new
Day-Glo religion. Bricks lay everywhere around a brightly colored prop wall.
Lifelike models of tiny purse dogs were scattered in the weeds. A white metal
bed frame from Ikea was submerged in the pool. (Ikea and Target are the main
sources of furniture and props for the project because of their ubiquity and
faux-designery corporate blandness, Mr. Trecartin said.) Above the pool was a
wooden armature rigged with a pulley that had been used to lower the artist into
the water the night before, a deus ex machina in canary yellow shorts.

Asked how the neighbors reacted to such doings, he said that the house on one
side was boarded up and occupied by squatters whom few people had seen. The
eaves and roof of the large house on the other side are covered with security
cameras, like vultures. No one is quite sure what its residents do.

''There's a lot of really weird things going on at our house,'' Mr. Trecartin
said. ''But those guys have these huge parties and actually make more noise, so
they don't complain.''

The shoots and plots have grown substantially more complex since his days in
Rhode Island and later, with many members of his group, in New Orleans, where
they lived until Hurricane Katrina destroyed their house and much of Mr.
Trecartin's work.

In ''A Family Finds Entertainment,'' the video that brought him to public view,
the fairly followable story involves a disturbed and disturbing black-toothed
kid named Skippy (played by Mr. Trecartin) who borrows money from his parents,
is filmed by a documentary maker, is hit by a car, is filmed by the documentary
maker some more as he lies in the road, and whose soul seems to rise from his
body when it hears the sounds of a rocking house party.

By ''I-Be Area'' Mr. Trecartin's characters had started to serve more as
vehicles for his hyperactively interconnected ideas about family, belonging,
identity, gender, the Internet and the entertainment industry. But they are much
more fascinating than allegorical characters generally have a right to be, with
names like Pasta and Jammie, yakking endlessly, arrogantly, pleadingly, in
phantasmagoric makeup and crazy clothes. The title character, I-Be, is less a
person than an idea of a person waiting to hijack or be hijacked by a
personality. (To make things more interesting, I-Be has a clone, and the clone
has an online avatar who seems to be mounting a rebellion; the clone and the
avatar are both played by Mr. Trecartin in a Southern accent that sounds
something like Carroll Baker's in ''Baby Doll,'' except on acid.)

In one Web interview Mr. Trecartin helpfully described a chaotic scene in a
macabre wood shop near the end of the video as ''a conceptual part-cyber-hybrid
platform that obeys and functions within both laws of physics and
virtual-nonlinear reality and potential in Web 2.0/ultra-wiki communication
malfunction liberation flow, add-on and debate presentation.''

In an interview two days after the all-nighter, Mr. Trecartin, with a full
night's sleep, said the new work, as yet unfinished and  untitled, was using
the dire state of the economy to describe a world in a state of epic, maybe
never-ending transition. It is a place where the idea of credit becomes so
abstract that ''credit cards start to have conceptual agendas'' and where people
create and use their own currencies. The Web becomes a catalyst for a
''postgender world,'' said Mr. Trecartin, who is gay. Transvestites would not be
the usual kind but instead ''astrological trannies'' or ''personality
trannies,'' choosing to exist in a state of not quite being one person.

Sitting in his office with Ms. Fitch, the walls behind him covered with circular
diagrams that he said helped him keep track of characters, ideas and situations,
he tried to describe parts of the numerous plots, which seem to collapse into
one another like the perspectives in an Escher drawing.

''This is really hard to describe linearly,'' he said at one point. At another,
trying to sum up after a long, rambling disquisition, he said, ''It's all just
driven by situations in a personality-based system,'' causing Ms. Fitch to laugh
and double over in her chair, because she has watched him go through these kinds
of patient -- and quite sincere -- gyrations before.

Massimiliano Gioni, the director of special exhibitions for the New Museum, said
he often used the term ''hysterical realism'' -- a phrase invented by the critic
James Wood to characterize the overly manic language and story lines of fiction
by writers like David Foster Wallace and Don DeLillo -- to describe Mr.
Trecartin's work and that of several other younger artists. But in their art, he
said, the hysteria is raised to even more absurd heights, a reflection of the
world they have inherited, drowning in information and images.

''It's as if information is speaking the characters rather than the other way
around,'' Mr. Gioni  said.

Lauren Cornell, the executive director of Rhizome (rhizome.org), the online art
organization affiliated with the New Museum, said that though it was too
limiting to describe Mr. Trecartin's work as being about life lived largely on
and through the Web, ''he really captures how the logic of it is becoming
embedded in our lives.''

The garish low-budget look and feel of his work, and its near-anarchy, are often
compared to early John Waters, to Paul McCarthy, to Mike Kelley and to drag
auteurs like Jack Smith and Tom Rubnitz. But when asked, Mr. Trecartin said that
he could not think of a work of art, video or otherwise, that had inspired him
to want to become an artist. Ms. Cornell said that in long conversations with
her in 2007 he told her that when he was first compared to Mr. Waters or to Mr.
Smith, he had never heard of them.

''When I was young and my baby sitters came over and turned on music videos, I
was inspired by that,'' Mr. Trecartin said in his office, where a desk with a
large Mac monitor and 10 hard drives shares space with the rumpled mattress he
often sleeps on. He said he also reads obsessively, almost completely online,
and is feverishly devoted to conspiracy-theory sites and TED Talks, the brainy
Web lecture series.

Ms. Fitch interrupted him disapprovingly: ''Ryan, I've seen you look at a piece
of art and be inspired by it.''

Mr. Trecartin responded: ''Yeah, but what? I really want to be reminded.''

He said his goal when he begins to write -- the dialogue in his works, despite
seeming ad-libbed, is highly scripted -- is for viewers to leave his work with a
deep emotional response to a reflection of their culture, ''but in a way that
they really can't put their finger on why they felt like that.''

While he is ecstatic about his success among curators and collectors,  he has an
online audience that is just as important to him, one that doesn't approach his
work as art per se. Speaking of an earlier work in an online interview, he once
said that if it fared well only among art-world people, ''then I'll feel like a
loser.''

But judging from some of the comments on his YouTube channel, he is doing well
by his other audience too. ''That one hour, 48 minutes was the closest I'd come
to someone who could understand me,'' wrote a viewer with the screen name
Scandibilly after watching ''I-Be Area.'' ''Thank you! Thank you! I
understand!''

Although he was born in 1981 into the first home-computer generation, Mr.
Trecartin said he thinks that people even younger, who have never known a world
without the Web, are the ones who understand his work most intuitively. He told
of hiring several teenage actresses for his new video. He tried to explain the
ideas for their surreal characters by simplifying them, but it wasn't working,
so he just explained it the way he would have to himself. ''And they were like,
'Oh, yeah, O.K.' ''

''People born in the '90s are amazing,'' he said excitedly. ''I can't wait until
they all start to make art.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 15, 2009



CORRECTION: An article on Feb. 1 about the artist Ryan Trecartin may have left
the incorrect impression about the role of the Moore Space in a project that Mr.
Trecartin undertook at that gallery's request. Although the Moore Space closed
in October, before Mr. Trecartin could complete the project, it did provide him
the logistical and financial support it had promised toward the initial stages
of the work. (Mr. Trecartin went on to create a different, larger project in the
setting that he originally obtained using some of the resources provided by the
Moore Space.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Scenes from Ryan Trecartin's latest video project, as yet
unfinished and untitled. (IMAGES COURTESY OF THE ARTIST AND ELIZABETH DEE
GALLERY) (pg.AR1)
Ryan Trecartin, above, is working on a trilogy, two parts video and one part
performance, inspired by the state of the economy. Above right and top, images
from the piece. (IMAGES COURTESY OF THE ARTIST AND ELIZABETH DEE GALLERY
 PHOTOGRAPH BY MORIS MORENO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A30)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 1, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Symbol of Elite Access: E-Mail to the Chief

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER; Sheryl Gay Stolberg and John M. Broder contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1355 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Anthony Lake served as one of Barack Obama's principal counselors on foreign
affairs during the campaign and exchanged e-mail messages with him regularly.
But now that Mr. Obama is president, Mr. Lake no longer has his e-mail address.

''No,'' he said when asked if he had it. ''Did. Don't.''

Neither does Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House, nor Steny H. Hoyer, the
majority leader, but they do not use e-mail much anyway. Mitch McConnell, the
Senate Republican leader, is a BlackBerry fiend, but he does not have Mr.
Obama's address. Nor do many members of the cabinet, including Defense Secretary
Robert M. Gates.

Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has it, along with his own new super-secret
BlackBerry and e-mail address. So do Mr. Obama's chief of staff, his top
advisers and some of his oldest friends from Chicago.

Senator Richard J. Durbin, a fellow Illinois Democrat, probably has it but
refuses to say. ''We're not going to discuss it,'' said a spokesman, Joe
Shoemaker. Asked why, he said, ''That's pretty obvious, isn't it?''

It is now the ultimate status symbol in a town obsessed by status. Mr. Obama was
spotted last week trying out his new BlackBerry -- or actually a more
sophisticated, encrypted variation -- and aides say that he uses a computer in
the study next to the Oval Office but that he has agreed to limit the number of
people he would exchange e-mail with. In the process, he created a new measure
for Washington to judge who really has the ear, or the thumb, of the president.

For decades, the capital scoured state dinner invitation lists and Camp David
visitor logs for clues to who was in and who was out.

Former President Bill Clinton established a new class of insider with his
Lincoln Bedroom sleepovers, although those usually came with an implicit price
tag as he tried to raise campaign money. Former President George W. Bush
provided fewer opportunities for the elite to demonstrate their eliteness by
virtually abandoning state dinners, but there were invitations to his Texas
ranch to clear brush, a dubious distinction, perhaps, during 100-degree Crawford
summers.

Now there is President Obama's e-mail, the first used by a commander in chief
while in office. ''This is the 21st-century version of the same special access
that certain people are always granted to the president,'' said Joel P. Johnson,
a senior White House adviser under Mr. Clinton. ''In F.D.R.'s White House, it
was Harry Hopkins and Harold Ickes. There will be a similar select few in this
White House.''

Those select few who have Mr. Obama's e-mail address, say people informed about
the matter, include Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff; David Axelrod
and Valerie Jarrett, both senior advisers; and Robert Gibbs, the press
secretary. But cabinet members like the interior secretary, Ken Salazar, said
they did not have it. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton is a frequent
BlackBerry user, but a spokesman said he did not know whether she had the
president's address.

Mr. Gates does not use e-mail for work, said Geoff Morrell, the Pentagon press
secretary, and besides, he sees the president often enough that he does not need
it to communicate with him by e-mail. ''If you are secretary of agriculture,
interior or something like that, it may prove more useful,'' Mr. Morrell said.
''But face time is not an issue for him.''

Mr. Obama joked about the exclusive nature of his e-mail list at the annual
Alfalfa Club dinner in Washington on Saturday night. ''How exclusive?'' the
president asked. ''Everyone look at the person sitting on your left. Now look at
the person sitting on your right. None of you have my e-mail address.''

The exclusivity is not just a matter of safeguarding the president's scarce time
or even protecting him from spam. Mr. Obama presumably knows not to send his
bank account information to those ubiquitous Nigerian businessmen who clog
e-mail inboxes. But security personnel worry that the more available his
address, the more vulnerable it may be to hacking pranksters or, worse, to cyber
-attackers from, say, Russia or China.

After all, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska found her e-mail account broken into and
her messages posted online last year when she was running for vice president.
Imagine a president's e-mail put on display for the whole world to see -- or
perhaps just for the head of a hostile foreign intelligence service.

To minimize the risk, the government  technology gurus have made it impossible
to forward e-mail messages from the president or to send him attachments, people
informed about the precautions say. His address is likely to be changed
regularly as well. And the president's friends and staff members are being
lectured about security.

So Mr. Obama's e-mail pals are largely keeping mum. Phone calls and e-mail
messages to more than 40 of his top aides, relatives, friends and political
associates last week yielded few who openly acknowledged having the address.

''I'm unable to confirm it,'' a publicist said when asked if Oprah Winfrey sends
e-mail to the president.

''I have no answer,'' a top White House official said when asked the same
question, refusing to be named saying even just that.

And there are many who might be expected to have it who do not. Former Vice
President Al Gore, an early e-mail aficionado, does not exchange messages with
the president. ''To date, I have not known them to e-mail each other,'' said his
spokeswoman, Kalee Kreider.

John D. Podesta ran Mr. Obama's transition and exchanged e-mail with him
virtually every day from the election to the inauguration. But he did not join
the administration and does not have the new address. ''Some things are
secret,'' Mr. Podesta said, although he added, ''My guess is the list will
grow.''

This is the first time the issue has arisen, because Mr. Clinton never became
interested in e-mail while he was president and Mr. Bush gave it up in the Oval
Office on the advice of lawyers, who consider e-mail subject to the Presidential
Records Act. (After eight years off the grid, Mr. Bush signed back on after
leaving office last month, according to his former aide, Karen Hughes, who
received a message from him the other day.)

Past presidents have found other ways of keeping in touch with the outside
world.

Mr. Clinton and the first President Bush had a dedicated fax line, although the
secret number sometimes leaked out. At least once during Mr. Clinton's first
term, a lobbying organization got hold of it and flooded the Oval Office with
unwelcome propaganda, forcing the White House to change the number.

Mr. Clinton received 100 to 500 faxes a week, and they sometimes prompted him to
rethink a speech or a policy approach. Aides came to dread them. ''It was useful
to him,'' said Mr. Lake, a national security adviser to Mr. Clinton. ''It was a
pain to us because he would send them to us in indecipherable handwriting
asking, 'What do you think?' ''

But Mr. Lake said Mr. Obama's decision to keep using e-mail as president made
sense, even though he himself was no longer a recipient. ''You can become a
captive of the bureaucracy, and this is one of the ways you avoid that,'' Mr.
Lake said.

Mr. Podesta said he strongly urged Mr. Obama to keep his BlackBerry. ''He needs
to stay connected to people,'' Mr. Podesta said. ''There is absolutely no reason
not to do it.''

He dismissed the concerns of the security team: ''They'd keep you in a lead
container in the basement if you let them.''

The challenge for those privileged few with the address will be when to use it.
What is the etiquette on sending e-mail to the president? Several friends and
aides said they would hit the ''reply'' button but not the ''new message''
button -- in other words, send messages only when messaged first.

''Rarely will I bother him for anything serious or nonserious,'' said Alexi
Giannoulias, the state treasurer of Illinois and a friend.

''I figure if he needs me or wants to talk to me on any social level, he can get
me very, very quickly. His friends need to have a shift in mentality. He's no
longer Barack. He's an institution.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE HAVES: The few who can send e-mail to President Obama,
whose cybercircle has been limited for security reasons, include, from left,
David Axelrod, senior adviser
Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff
and Robert Gibbs, the press secretary. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW
YORK TIMES
DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 THE HAVE-NOTS: Steny H. Hoyer, the House majority leader, and Nancy Pelosi, the
House speaker, do not have the address. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (pg.A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 5, 2009 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Senate Advances Tax Break for Homebuyers

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 945 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate on Wednesday voted to expand the economic stimulus package with a tax
credit for homebuyers of up to $15,000, a provision championed by Republicans as
addressing a root cause of the recession.

The vote to add the tax credit, at a cost of about $18.5 billion, came as Senate
leaders seemed to be nearing completion of negotiations. The majority leader,
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, suggested that a final vote on the stimulus plan
could come on Thursday.

Moderate lawmakers in both parties are pushing to reduce the overall cost of the
measure and to focus it more tightly on provisions that will quickly spur
spending and create jobs. The vote came as President Obama met with centrist
lawmakers to address concerns about the package.

Mr. Obama, while expressing willingness to compromise, also issued a warning to
some Republican critics who have said they will press for major changes to the
bill, including the removal of many spending programs in favor of wider tax
cuts.

''I've heard criticisms of this plan that echo the very same failed theories
that helped lead us into this crisis, the notion that tax cuts alone will solve
all our problems, that we can ignore the fundamental challenges like energy
independence and the high cost of health care and still expect our economy and
our country to thrive,'' he said.

''I reject that theory,'' Mr. Obama continued, ''and so did the American people
when they went to the polls in November and voted resoundingly for change. So I
urge members of Congress to act without delay.''

And, as if taking a cue from their president, Senate Democrats on Wednesday
evening used their newly strengthened majority to swiftly reject a series of
Republican amendments intended to cut spending or broaden the tax package in the
stimulus bill.

Presuming Senate Democrats muscle the bill through, the final legislation must
be reconciled with the $820 billion measure approved last week by the House.

The tax break for homebuyers, which the Senate approved by voice vote without
opposition, was the second amendment in two days intended to encourage consumers
to make major purchases. On Tuesday, the Senate approved a tax incentive for car
buyers, sponsored by Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland, that
would allow the deduction of sales tax and loan interest on purchases made this
year.

But while both of those incentives were applauded by lawmakers who said that the
bill should quickly induce consumer spending, some economists said they were
short-sighted and lacked the forward-thinking approach Mr. Obama has demanded.

Adam Posen, deputy director of the Peterson Institute of International
Economics, said that homebuyers would have trouble accessing loans because of
the continued tightness in the credit markets and that the car buyer incentive
fell short by not focusing on fuel-efficient vehicles, and that the money might
be better directed at mass transit.

''They are also structurally unsound,'' Mr. Posen said of the two provisions,
''reinforcing the attempts of industries that are too large -- housing
construction, automobile production -- to survive based on government
distortions.''

He called them both ''terrible, pandering ideas.''

But Senator Johnny Isakson, Republican of Georgia, a former real estate broker,
who was the prime sponsor of the homebuyer credit, said it was modeled after a
similar, $2,000 homebuyer incentive that helped lead the country out of
recession in 1975.

''We do have a history in this country with housing and it goes back to the
crash of 1974, which actually in terms of inventory and price declines was
comparable to what's happening now,'' Mr. Isakson said at a news conference.

''Within one year of the inception of that tax credit, two-thirds of the
available inventory that was on the market was gone. The market moved back to a
balanced inventory, values stabilized and things became very healthy. The only
reason I know all of that is I was selling houses in 1974, that's what I was
doing to feed my family and make a living.''

The tax credit would give buyers 10 percent of the price of a primary residence
bought within one year, up to $15,000, and is intended to stabilize plummeting
home prices, which caused a wave of foreclosures and led to the near collapse of
the financial system as Wall Street firms wrote down billions in mortgage-backed
assets.

With Wednesday's additions, the cost of the Senate package has climbed well
above $900 billion -- the limit that Mr. Obama has set for the final
legislation. Intense negotiations seemed likely over how to reduce the price
tag.

At the White House on Wednesday, Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine,
personally delivered a list of cuts, totaling about $100 billion, that she said
should be made.

Ms. Snowe met one-on-one with Mr. Obama in the Oval Office, and the president
met later in the day with Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, and
Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska. Ms. Collins and Mr. Nelson have been
working on a substitute bill that would strip out spending that they said would
not provide an immediate jolt to the economy.

Ms. Snowe, leaving the White House, said it was imperative that ''every
provision has a job creation component.''

Initiatives that critics hope to remove from the bill include $50 million for
the National Endowment for the Arts, $14 million for cyber security research by
the Homeland Security Department, $1 billion for the National Science
Foundation, $400 million for research and prevention of sexually transmitted
diseases, $850 million for Amtrak and $400 million for climate change research.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 5, 2009 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Senate Adds Homebuyer Tax Credit to Stimulus Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 945 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


As President Obama met with centrist lawmakers to address concerns over the $900
billion economic stimulus plan, the Senate on Wednesday voted to expand the
package with a tax credit for homebuyers of up to $15,000, a provision
championed by Republicans as addressing a root cause of the recession.

The vote to add the tax credit, at a cost of about $18.5 billion, came as Senate
leaders seemed to be nearing completion of negotiations. The majority leader,
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, suggested that a final vote on the stimulus plan
could come on Thursday.

Moderate lawmakers in both parties are pushing to reduce the overall cost of the
measure and to focus it more tightly on provisions that will quickly spur
spending and create jobs.

Mr. Obama, while expressing willingness to compromise, also issued a warning to
some Republican critics who have said they will press for major changes to the
bill, including the removal of many spending programs in favor of wider tax
cuts.

''I've heard criticisms of this plan that echo the very same failed theories
that helped lead us into this crisis, the notion that tax cuts alone will solve
all our problems, that we can ignore the fundamental challenges like energy
independence and the high cost of health care and still expect our economy and
our country to thrive,'' he said.

''I reject that theory,'' Mr. Obama continued, ''and so did the American people
when they went to the polls in November and voted resoundingly for change. So I
urge members of Congress to act without delay.''

And, as if taking a cue from their president, Senate Democrats on Wednesday
evening used their newly strengthened majority to swiftly reject a series of
Republican amendments intended to cut spending or broaden the tax package in the
stimulus bill.

Presuming Senate Democrats muscle the bill through, the final legislation must
be reconciled with the $820 billion measure approved last week by the House.

The tax break for homebuyers, which the Senate approved by voice vote without
opposition, was the second amendment in two days intended to encourage consumers
to make major purchases. On Tuesday, the Senate approved a tax incentive for car
buyers, sponsored by Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland, that
would allow the deduction of sales tax and loan interest on purchases made this
year.

But while both of those incentives were applauded by lawmakers who said that the
bill should quickly induce consumer spending, some economists said they were
short-sighted and lacked the forward-thinking approach Mr. Obama has demanded.

Adam Posen, deputy director of the Peterson Institute of International
Economics, said that homebuyers would have trouble accessing loans because of
the continued tightness in the credit markets and that the car buyer incentive
fell short by not focusing on fuel-efficient vehicles, and that the money might
be better directed at mass transit.

''They are also structurally unsound,'' Mr. Posen said of the two provisions,
''reinforcing the attempts of industries that are too large -- housing
construction, automobile production -- to survive based on government
distortions.''

He called them both ''terrible, pandering ideas.''

But Senator Johnny Isakson, Republican of Georgia, a former real estate broker,
who was the prime sponsor of the homebuyer credit, said it was modeled after a
similar, $2,000 homebuyer incentive that helped lead the country out of
recession in 1975.

''We do have a history in this country with housing and it goes back to the
crash of 1974, which actually in terms of inventory and price declines was
comparable to what's happening now,'' Mr. Isakson said at a news conference.

''Within one year of the inception of that tax credit, two-thirds of the
available inventory that was on the market was gone. The market moved back to a
balanced inventory, values stabilized and things became very healthy. The only
reason I know all of that is I was selling houses in 1974, that's what I was
doing to feed my family and make a living.''

The tax credit would give buyers 10 percent of the price of a primary residence
bought within one  year, up to $15,000, and is intended to stabilize plummeting
home prices, which caused a wave of foreclosures and led to the near collapse of
the financial system as Wall Street firms wrote down billions in mortgage-backed
assets.

With Wednesday's additions, the cost of the Senate package has climbed well
above $900 billion -- the limit that Mr. Obama has set for the final
legislation. Intense negotiations seemed likely over how to reduce the price
tag.

At the White House on Wednesday, Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine,
personally delivered a list of cuts, totaling about $100 billion, that she said
should be made.

Ms. Snowe met one-on-one with Mr. Obama in the Oval Office, and the president
met later in the day with Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, and
Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska. Ms. Collins and Mr. Nelson have been
working on a substitute bill that would strip out spending that they said would
not provide an immediate jolt to the economy.

Ms. Snowe, leaving the White House, said it was imperative that ''every
provision has a job creation component.''

Initiatives that critics hope to remove from the bill include $50 million for
the National Endowment for the Arts, $14 million for cyber security research by
the Homeland Security Department, $1 billion for the National Science
Foundation, $400 million for research and prevention of sexually transmitted
diseases, $850 million for Amtrak and $400 million for climate change research.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, on Wednesday
after meeting with President Obama at the White House. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG
MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Senators Jeff Sessions and Jim DeMint with Representative Tom Price, all
Republicans, criticized the stimulus package.  (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 12, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Finding the Right Point-and-Shoot Camera

BYLINE: By TODD LAPPIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Circuits; BASICS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1237 words


HERE'S the simple truth: Just about any point-and-shoot camera from any
name-brand manufacturer takes very good photographs. The difference between a
good shot and a bad one is often a question of how easy that camera is to use.

With that in mind, I rounded up a collection of the latest and smallest
point-and-shoot cameras and judged them on how easy it was to access a few basic
but essential point-and-shoot functions: power on, optical zoom, turning the
flash on and off, using macro focusing, switching from photo to video mode, and
accessing specialized settings for scene-specific conditions (like portraits,
twilight, indoor parties and action shots). Here is how today's crop of
point-and-shoots fared in my usability challenge:

Canon PowerShot SD1100 IS

The SD1100 IS ($200) receives rave reviews for its excellent image quality.
Truth be told, I didn't really notice. What I did notice was that the Canon was
cumbersome to use. The zoom ring was flimsy and offered minimal grip. The
function buttons were flush-mounted, so they offered little tactile feel. The
LCD screen was one of the smallest in the bunch. Navigating the main screen menu
was straightforward, but the screen icons for key settings like white-balance
and focus mode were poorly labeled. The status of other functions  --  like
flash and macro-mode --  was displayed only when those functions were changed.
Is the flash on or off? Who knows? That's the kind of thing it would be nice to
be able to check before you snap the shutter.

Casio Exilim EX-S10

At just 0.6-inch thick, the EX-S10 ($229) was by far the thinnest of the group.
The controls are simple and easy to use, with dedicated buttons for switching
between still camera and video modes, and for enabling or deactivating the
flash. The Casio also had the most intuitive screen interface of the bunch.
Scene-specific shooting modes are illustrated with full-color sample images that
make it easy to figure out which mode is most appropriate to use. Even better,
easy-to-read text in plain English explains what exactly each setting does --
scenery mode, for example, increases the sharpness and adds some color
saturation. Information like that makes it easy to figure out what setting is
best for your shot.

Kodak EasyShare M1093 IS

The power switch on the M1093 ($200) was one of three buttons arrayed at the top
of the camera, but it was flush with the other two, so it was difficult to
locate by feel alone. A dedicated flash on/off button is next to the power
switch and near the shutter. That's a smart place for it to be, but it, too, was
flush-mounted and hard to find with a fingertip. Switching to video mode
required using an onscreen menu, and choosing a scene-specific shooting mode
meant diving two levels down in the menu hierarchy. Most frustrating of all,
however, was the long processing lag after taking a photo, and the
excruciatingly long amount of time it took for the lens to retract after the
camera was turned off. Using the M1093 made me feel as if I'd been teleported
back to 1999.

Nikon CoolPix S60

This nifty Nikon ($350) has just two buttons: a power button and a shutter
release. Everything else is controlled via a 3.5-inch touch screen on the back
of the camera. While the screen is very responsive to the touch, moving so many
of the camera's functions to the touch screen may be too much of a good thing.
The zoom is controlled by icons, which offer no tactile feedback whatsoever.
Customized shooting modes are buried in the menu hierarchy. Once you get there,
you're presented with 16 tiny icons that look like Egyptian hieroglyphics.
There's no text to decode what each setting does  --  those explanations are
buried in a help menu  --  so choosing the right setting for any given scene is
a bit of a guessing game.

Olympus Stylus 1050 SW

The 1050 ($300) is winterized to function at subfreezing temperatures. You'll
want to wear gloves when it's that cold outside, so the 1050 features a clever
system that makes it possible to adjust some settings simply by tapping the
sides of the camera body. Tap the right side, and you control the flash
settings. Tap the left side, and you control a special backlight-compensation
mode. Tap the LCD screen, and the camera switches to playback mode. I tried this
while wearing my heaviest ski gloves, and the tap system worked just as
advertised. But heaven help you if you need to adjust anything else. The 1050's
onscreen menu hierarchy is exceptionally complex, and the controls you use to
fine-tune other image settings are challenging to navigate even with bare hands.

Panasonic Lumix DMC-FX37

Major controls on the Lumix ($350)  offer excellent tactile feedback, and
they're all ergonomically positioned. The macro, flash, timer and white-balance
settings each get a dedicated button, so it's possible to make adjustments on
the fly without having to wade through several levels of screen menus. Essential
shooting modes are controlled with a rotary switch, much like the ones found on
larger D.S.L.R.'s. The Lumix also has a very nice Leica-manufactured lens, with
ultra-wide-angle capability and 5x optical zoom (as opposed to the 3x zoom
that's standard with most point-and-shoots). Although it wasn't the smallest
camera in the group, the Panasonic was a joy to use.

Pentax Optio S12

This compact little Pentax ($230) gets most of the basics right. Raised buttons
provide quick access to the flash, macro, self-timer and scene-specific shooting
modes, with good tactile feel. A raised rocker switch controls the 3x optical
zoom; it's easy to operate with a thumb while your index finger controls the
shutter. The Optio S12 also offers 12-megapixel image capture, which is good for
bragging rights (if little else). The Pentax is pleasant to operate and easy to
use, but there is one problem: to access the S12's video mode, you have to pick
through the 15 options in the camera's menu of scene-specific settings. A
dedicated switch for switching between still camera and video recording modes
would be more efficient.

Sony Cyber-shot DSC-T700

Sony's ultra-slim camera ($380) looks great, but it's annoyingly demanding.
Start with the front cover: You have to remember to lower it before taking a
photo. You also have to remember to raise it after you turn the camera off, lest
the lens get covered with pocket lint. Yet those shortcomings seem modest in
comparison to the problems with the touchscreen display on the back of the
camera. It's big, but the touch function is balky and imprecise. Even worse, any
changes to the settings require hitting an ''O.K.'' button before they go into
effect -- a tedious extra step. Throw in the fact that the zoom control is just
a tiny switch positioned awkwardly alongside the shutter button, and the oohs
and aahs the Cyber-shot elicits at first sight quickly turn to groans of
frustration.

Which to Buy?

Half of these cameras can't be honestly recommended. Of the remaining four,
Nikon's CoolPix S60 is the best-looking of the easy-to-use crowd (because looks
do matter to some). The Olympus's innovative controls make its Stylus 1050 SW
great for outdoorsy types, and if you don't mind a little extra bulk, the
Panasonic Lumix DMC-FX37 is also a pleasure to use. But the top spot has to go
to the Casio Exilim EX-S10. It's specs are nothing special, but its intuitive
interface means you can take more and better pictures, faster.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left: The Canon PowerShot SD1100 IS, the
Casio Exilim EX-S10, the Kodak EasyShare M1093 IS, the Panasonic Lumix DMC-FX37,
the Sony Cyber-Shot DSC-T700, Pentax Optio S21, the Olympus Stylus 1050 SW and
the Nikon Coolpix S60. The eight cameras offer varying degrees of ease of use.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               10 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 15, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GREEN, SIDNEY W

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 451 words


GREEN--Sidney W. One of the country's top fund raisers and a publicist for
progressive causes died Saturday February 7th in Brooklyn, New York just 4 days
after his 76th birthday. He succumbed to the complications of Alzheimer's
disease. Born in Brooklyn, he was the son of Nathan Green and Helen Honig.

The family owned a popular neighborhood candy store on Clinton St. in the Red
Hook section. Educated at the local public school and Erasmus High School in
Brooklyn, Mr. Green attended CCNY where he earned a BA and a Master's in English
Literature from Columbia University. After serving in the Navy, stationed off
the coast of Korea in the mid-1950's, he worked as a Civil Rights activist and
for the Antioch Law Review. In 1962 joined the consulting firm then known as
Harold L. Oram, Inc. today The Oram Group, Inc. The Oram firm worked for liberal
and leftist causes and one of his early clients was Robert Hutchins Center for
the Study of Democratic Institutions, in Santa Barbara, California. He served
many other nonprofit clients and also served as fund raising consultant to both
Eugene McCarthy's and George McGovern's presidential bids. He left Oram in 1970
and set up Sidney W. Green Associates, working as an independent fund raising
and public relations consultant. His company raised hundreds of millions of
dollars for major public and private sector clients. In 1994 he founded Cyber
Financial, a boutique merchant bank and equity and debt funds for intellectual
property projects, internet startups, healthcare, hi-tech software and
entertainment companies. From 1984 to 1994, Mr. Green was a public and financial
affairs consultant to the Belzberg family of Vancouver, Canada. During this time
he worked directly with family members as an advisor on their public and private
interests. One major concern was helping to develop the Museum of Tolerance in
Los Angeles, a world-renowned museum that took 10 years to complete. The lead
family member, Samuel Belzberg, is the museum's Chairman of the Board. As
principal advisor, Sidney Green was chief fundraiser and design originator,
helping to raise over US $50 million for this innovative interactive, multimedia
multicultural educational program. He also scouted investment opportunities for
the Belzberg family companies through First City Merchant Bank, Inc. of New
York. Mr. Green is survived by his wife of 25 years, Candida McCollam, a
daughter Amy LeBlanc, and three grandchildren, Nicholas, Nathaniel and Joanetta.
A memorial service will be held at 2 pm, March 1 at the New York Tolerance
Center. The family requests that any donations in Sidney's memory be made to the
Simon Wiesenthal Center or the Alzheimer's Association.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               11 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 22, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

My First Book Of Urban Planning

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; POSTING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 662 words


ARCHITECTS may need only to point at a building to explain to their children
what they do.

Planners aren't so lucky.

In fact, unless airplane windows are involved, it's probably a struggle to
describe how they map out roads, stores and homes to form neighborhoods.

A new children's book may help shed light at a time when interest in the field
seems to be growing.

''Where Things Are, From Near to Far'' (Planetizen Press, $19.95), by Chris
Steins and Tim Halbur, depicts a mother and son on a stroll through a city and
its surroundings.

Mr. Steins, a planner by training, said that his target audience was children
like his twin sons, Rowan and Grant, who are 3. ''If we teach kids how to build
them,'' he said, ''we will end up with better cities.''

Among the book's 20 colorful pages is one with a Beaux-Arts firehouse that looks
as if it could be on Great Jones Street in Manhattan. On another page, about
outlying neighborhoods, row houses with rounded bays resemble those in Park
Slope, Brooklyn.

But David Ryan, the book's illustrator, who lived in the East Village for
several years, insists any resemblances are coincidental.

According to Mr. Steins, an earlier version of the text was critical of the
suburbs, telegraphing the New Urbanism point of view of architects like Andres
Duany, who argues that suburbs should be less dependent on cars.

But by the third draft ''we removed those value judgments,'' Mr. Steins said.
''We know lots of people live in the suburbs, and that every type of community
has value.''

Indeed, the busy two-lane street on Pages 9 and 10 abutting a sprawling parking
lot seems a far cry from places like Seaside, Fla., the pedestrian-friendly town
featured in the movie ''The Truman Show,''  perhaps Mr. Duany's best-known
creation.

Though ample children's books profile police officers, firefighters and doctors,
there are comparatively few in-print titles that focus on careers in the built
environment, librarians say.

Yes, Richard Scarry's 1968 ''What Do People Do All Day?''  (Random House)
famously depicts a mason, a carpenter and a plumber and, elsewhere,
road-building engineers and surveyors.

More recently, Meghan McCarthy's ''City Hawk: The Story of Pale Male'' (Simon &
Schuster, 2007) dived into real estate, including specifics about the bird's
nest, a 12-story limestone co-op at 927 Fifth Avenue. The building, it informed
young readers,  housed the actress Mary Tyler Moore ''and other wealthy
dwellers.''

Children are increasingly studying  topics like planning in school, says
Elizabeth Bird, the senior children's librarian at the New York Public Library.
In the last few years,  grade-school patrons have even come in looking for
information on the planner Robert Moses, she said.

There are more issue-oriented books for children over all, she added; books on
the environment, man-made and otherwise, join titles about cerebral palsy, say,
or cyber-bullying.

''I think we are moving away from a time when adults want books filled with
sweetness and light,'' Ms. Bird said. ''They now trust their kids with more
realistic topics.''

Others, like Ethel Sheffer, an adjunct assistant professor in the department of
urban planning at Columbia University, cite news reports about what to put up at
the World Trade Center site as fueling interest.

That interest seems to be on the rise. The New York chapter of the American
Planning Association has 1,500 members, up from 500 two decades ago, which
outstrips the national rate of growth, said Ms. Sheffer, a past president of the
chapter.

And six years ago, New York created the Academy of Urban Planning, a public high
school in Bushwick, Brooklyn, with 450 students.

By focusing on planning at an earlier age, said Ms. Sheffer, who discovered her
career only after college, young people can better hone their powers of
observation.

''They can learn to look with careful eyes at the places they walk through,''
she said. ''And that's terrific.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BUILDING BLOCKS: An illustration by David Ryan from ''Where
Things Are, From Near to Far,'' a book on urban planning for children written by
Chris Steins, below left, and Tim Halbur.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY ARMSTRONG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               12 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 1, 2009 Sunday
                                National Edition

Oops, You Hit 'Delete.' It's Time for a Software Sleuth.

BYLINE: By ANNE EISENBERG.

E-mail: novelties@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; NOVELTIES; Pg.
3

LENGTH: 844 words


IT'S easy enough to accidentally delete cherished digital photographs. One
wrong click of a button can wipe them out.

Retrieving those images can be tricky, particularly when the files have been
fragmented and bits of them are scattered throughout the hard drive or camera
card.

Now, new software is smart enough to find and reassemble fragmented digital
photographs, even when the directions for locating them have been deleted. The
feat is similar to assembling a million pieces of a jigsaw puzzle with no
guiding box-top image.

One day, this software may  be useful not only in its consumer applications,
restoring snapshots that have accidentally been erased, but also in recovering
deliberately deleted images that might provide evidence in cases of corporate
spying or child pornography.

The program was devised by the computer scientist Nasir Memon, a professor at
the Polytechnic Institute of New York University in Brooklyn. It is an example
of a sophisticated technique called file carving -- restoring the contents of a
file after the  identifying information that accompanies it has been removed or
lost -- said Golden G. Richard III, a professor of computer science at the
University of New Orleans, who has also written a file-carving application.

Automated programs like Dr. Memon's are highly unusual, Dr. Richard said.

''Most applications simply don't handle images that have been torn into pieces
and scrambled that well,'' he said. ''His technique takes those shreds and puts
them back together.''

Data is often stored in shreds when the media card in the camera starts to fill
up. ''Software inside the camera starts to scrounge for available space, and may
store the data not contiguously, but here and there,'' he explained.

The problem becomes even more complicated when the accompanying location
information is erased --  by reformatting, for instance. ''This program examines
individual pieces of the image and deduces the order they should be in,'' he
said.

Dr. Memon's program reassembles the popular JPEG  format for digital images. The
method can also be applied to other formats.

Programs like his may someday be used by law enforcement, said Marcus K. Rogers,
head of the graduate Cyber Forensics Program at Purdue University in West
Lafayette, Ind. ''We do a lot of operational support for law enforcement in our
lab here,'' said Dr. Rogers, who often searches for images that have been
scattered in pieces throughout the hard drive. ''Quite often that's just where
the smoking guns are found.''

Dr. Rogers said that sophisticated data-carving programs are unnecessary in
simple cases of digital photo restoration,  when all the data that represent the
photograph are stored in one chunk.

'Then standard forensic software can generally recover it,'' he said.

But if the data are scattered, the problem is much trickier. ''This program is a
big step forward,'' he said. ''Before this, it was a fairly manual process of
going through the entire drive, looking through for picture fragments and trying
to piece them together.'' Such a painstaking process  could take days.

Even with the best tools,  it was usually not possible to restore a photograph
completely once the file was fragmented, said Yalkin Demirkaya, president of
Cyber Diligence Inc. in Syosset, N.Y.  Mr. Demirkaya is the former commanding
officer of the computer crimes investigation unit of the Internal Affairs Bureau
of the New York Police Department. ''Typically,'' he said, ''we can carve out
part of the photographic image, so that we see a little strip of the image on
top, for example, but the remainder is blank.''

A version of Dr. Memon's program will be incorporated into Forensic Toolkit, a
software program for digital investigators from the AccessData Corporation in
Lindon, Utah, said Brian Karney, the chief operating officer.

Dr. Memon and two of his students, Pasha Pal and Kulesh Shanmugasundaram,  have
founded Digital Assembly, which sells a consumer version of the software, Adroit
Photo Recovery, to restore deleted images ($39.99 at digital-assembly.com). The
software cannot recover partial images, where parts of the original image have
been overwritten by new data. ''But it will recover photos if all of the parts
are still present on the storage medium, however scattered,'' Dr. Memon said.

In his research, he discovered that latent images may be of concern not only to
wrongdoers, but also to ordinary people who mistakenly think that have expunged
snapshots from their camera cards before selling them. He learned this when he
bought used camera cards on eBay to test the power of his software and recovered
many highly personal images from them.

''People think they have deleted the images, he said, ''but typically they have
deleted only the table of contents'' that tells where the images are stored, not
the images themselves.

''You have to completely overwrite the images,'' he advised. ''People should be
careful when they sell their computers or flash cards and make sure to scrub
these images properly.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: When a file is deleted, its parts can be scattered. Older
approaches stitched together pieces, above, but software like Adroit Photo
Recovery does better, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM NASIR MEMON)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               13 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 8, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Army Developing Teams For Electronic Warfare

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 800 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Viewed by its sister services as the less brainy branch of the armed forces, the
Army over recent years had neglected to maintain its own ability to fight
electronic warfare, relying instead on the expertise of the Air Force and the
Navy. But the ground wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have introduced deadly new
threats and proved how that lack of attention to electronic warfare has put
soldiers directly at risk.

Information-age attacks, like improvised explosive devices detonated by
cellphones, radios and garage door openers, have claimed more lives than any
other type. And there are high-tech benefits that must be managed, including
friend-or-foe tracking devices and surveillance drones that beam video straight
to troops in battle.

In response, the Army is developing its own electronic warfare teams. The
initial goal is to train more than 1,600 people from enlisted ranks through the
officer corps by 2013, and to double that in the following years, giving the
Army enough of these specialists to rival its sister services and surpass all of
the NATO allies combined.

Gen. Peter W. Chiarelli was the first person to sound an alarm that the Army's
neglect of electronic warfare was endangering troops. General Chiarelli was
serving as the No. 2 commander in Iraq when he sent a memorandum to Army
leadership at the Pentagon in February 2006, warning that soldiers were unable
to operate the new high-tech gear that was being rushed to the war zone to
counter the rising threat of improvised explosive devices, or I.E.D.s.

General Chiarelli also warned Army headquarters that the ability of commanders
and troops to communicate was diminishing as allied and American radios and
electronic jamming gear fought for space on the limited broadcast bands,
degrading the quality of transmissions all across the spectrum.

''When I first got over there in 2004 and in 2005, we didn't have any Army
electronic warfare capabilities,'' said General Chiarelli, who is now the Army
vice chief of staff. ''It became deadly apparent in 2006, with the rise of
I.E.D.s. At the same time, we were having big problems with the jammers and how
to deconflict them with all of the other radio and signals traffic.''

The Army reached out to the other services for help. Adm. Mike Mullen, then the
chief of naval operations but since promoted to chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, immediately ordered to Iraq hundreds of sailors who specialized in
electronic warfare.

''They saved a lot of lives when they came over,'' General Chiarelli said.
''They became the most important person in each formation down to the battalion
level. They were sought out by soldiers who knew they had to learn this kind of
warfare.''

In the three years since, hundreds of Air Force personnel have also served as
electronic warfare specialists with ground units in Iraq.

In that time, the Army has produced a doctrine on electronic warfare that will
join other new field manuals, including a better known one on counterinsurgency,
that are transforming how the service prepares for and fights wars.

The Army's new field manual, ''FM 3-36, Electronic Warfare in Operations,''
instructs commanders in how to integrate electronic warfare into all tasks, from
planning to carrying out military operations. It also lays out a program for
training personnel and sets the requirements for equipment.

''We simply have to look at ways to attack, and to protect ourselves, all across
the frequency spectrum,'' said Col. Laurie Moe Buckhout, chief of the Army's
electronic warfare division.

Managing communications, and protecting those transmissions, is complicated
enough in the civilian world, but the problem is magnified in a combat zone,
which is cluttered with sometimes conflicting radio signals from various
American and allied units.

Military risk assessments note that potential adversaries, from nation states to
terrorist groups, are seeking to increase their abilities to attack electronic
frequencies. The goal would be to scramble radio and cellphone traffic, block
signals from convoys that allow headquarters to track the movements of troops
and supplies, or jam data from satellites that feed vital navigation systems.

''The enemy's ability to weaponize the spectrum to detonate an I.E.D. was just
the tip of the iceberg,'' Colonel Buckhout said.

Electronic warfare is among the military's most highly classified efforts,
routinely carried out in conjunction with the nation's intelligence agencies. It
focuses on signals carried by radio and microwave frequencies, and is usually
confined to a tactical battlefield setting.

It is separate from the other growing field of combat, cyber warfare, which
deals with defending or attacking computer networks, with local, national and
even international impact.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               14 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 10, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 671 words


10 P.M. (Sci Fi) W.C.G. ULTIMATE GAMER World Cyber Games searches for the best
all-around video game player in the United States in this new series, in which
12 contestants (above, Chelsea Alek-Finkelman and Daniel Kim) must live together
while competing against one another in games like Halo 3, Project Gotham Racing
4 and Virtual Fighter 5. The player who can master the most games wins $100,000,
a cutting-edge electronics package and an opportunity to tour with the W.C.G.

7 A.M. (ABC) TODAY Stephanie March talks about her return to ''Law & Order:
Special Victims Unit'' (see below); Russell Brand promotes his new book, ''My
Booky Wook.''

10 A.M. (ABC); 2 P.M. (55) RACHAEL RAY  Bruno Tonioli judges a ''Dancing With
the Dogs'' competition; also, celebrities' plastic surgeries.

8 P.M. (ABC) HOMELAND SECURITY USA After eight months abroad, a convicted sex
offender is caught upon his return to O'Hare International Airport in Chicago.
In Falfurrias, Tex., a dog alerts his agent to a false wall in a recreational
vehicle, behind which is stashed more than $1 million in drugs. And a Coast
Guard pilot recalls some heartbreaking rescues during Hurricane Katrina.

8 P.M. (CW) REAPER The Devil (Ray Wise) sends two demons to attack Sam (Bret
Harrison), but one of them seems more interested in Ben (Rick Gonzalez).

8 P.M. (Fox) AMERICAN IDOL  The Top 13 perform as finalists for the first time
in this two-hour episode.

8 P.M. (MyNetwork TV) STREET PATROL Season 2 begins by documenting police action
on the streets of Fontana, Calif.;  Providence, R.I.; and Kansas City, Mo. At 9
a new season of ''Jail'' looks at incidents at jailhouses in Austin, Tex., and
Salt Lake City.

8 P.M. (NBC) THE BIGGEST LOSER The winners of a relay race are rewarded with 24
hours of luxury, but some give into temptation instead.

8 P.M. (Ovation) THIS IS CIVILISATION Matthew Collings, left,   journeys to
Venice, the Swiss Alps and the Lake District in England to demonstrate how art
can reconnect viewers in industrialized nations with nature. At 9 in ''The Art
of Spain'' Andrew Graham-Dixon looks at the results of northern Spain's
turbulent history in works by Goya and Picasso, and he debates the role of
Spanish architecture in that country's global position in the 21st century.

9 P.M. (BBC America) LAST RESTAURANT STANDING Come fly with them: Three couples
are challenged to serve first-class meals aboard an airplane.

9 P.M. (History) HOW THE EARTH WAS MADE Next stop: New York City, with an
examination of the geographical history of the rocks below Manhattan and their
prehistoric connection with Africa.

10 P.M. (Bravo) THE REAL HOUSEWIVES OF NEW YORK CITY Alex and Simon return from
the Hamptons in time to turn around and head to St. Barts. Jill redesigns her
home, and LuAnn writes an etiquette book, though Bethenny isn't sure she's
actually an expert on the matter -- especially after LuAnn and Ramona have a
sparring match.

10 P.M. (National Geographic) T. REX WALKS AGAIN How did something so tiny and
cuddly  -- a T. rex baby -- grow into a vicious, six-ton carnivore? Hall Train
Studios, builder of animatronic dinosaurs, and the paleontologist Jason Brougham
try to bring a new vision of the creature to life by creating the most accurate
mechanical replica of a walking juvenile T. rex.

10 P.M. (NBC) LAW & ORDER: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT Assistant District Attorney
Alexandra Cabot (Stephanie March) makes an unexpected return after three years
in the witness-protection program when a pediatrician found guilty of molesting
his male patients is killed.

10 P.M. (IFC) THE WHITEST KIDS U'KNOW This troupe from the Lower East Side
performs comedy sketches, including ''Earthquake'' and ''Skatefall.'' At 10
''The IT Crowd'' ends its run.

10 P.M. (TNT) TRUST ME Financial problems force Mason (Eric McCormack) and
Conner (Tom Cavanagh) to seek employment at another agency. But their trust
starts to erode when it becomes clear that one or the other -- or maybe both --
is telling secrets. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               15 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 12, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Get the Big Picture, Or Focus on One Face

BYLINE: By JOHN BIGGS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Circuits; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 183 words


As point-and-shoot camera users become more sophisticated, they start looking
for the little extras. A lot of cameras have optical zoom and high megapixel
counts, but Sony's new Cyber-shot HX1 has a few features that might even appeal
to semiprofessionals.

The camera, available next month for $500, takes up to 10 nine-megapixel
pictures a second and can take video at 1080p resolution. It also has a large
20X optical zoom lens and a three-inch LCD. To improve shooting time, the HX1
has a mechanical shutter like those found in digital single-lens reflex cameras.

It also spruces up vacation photos with a 224-degree panoramic stitching feature
that lets you take wide semicircular horizon shots. It has motion reduction and
antishake technology, as well as a smart composing feature that keeps everything
in focus even when you zoom in on distant subjects.

The lens has focal lengths equivalent to 28 to 560 millimeters, and multiple
scene settings, including red-eye reduction and face detection. A new feature
lets you select a ''favorite'' face and focus on it  consistently.  JOHN BIGGS

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               16 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 12, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mythical Beast (a Dirty Pun) Tweaks China's Web Censors

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES; Zhang Jing contributed research.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

DATELINE: BEIJING


Since its first unheralded appearance in January on a Chinese Web page, the
grass-mud horse has become nothing less than a phenomenon.

A YouTube children's song about the beast has drawn nearly 1.4 million viewers.
A grass-mud horse cartoon has logged a  quarter million more views. A nature
documentary on its habits attracted 180,000 more. Stores are selling grass-mud
horse dolls. Chinese intellectuals are writing treatises on the grass-mud
horse's social importance. The story of the grass-mud horse's struggle against
the evil river crab has spread far and wide across the Chinese online community.

Not bad for a mythical creature whose name, in Chinese, sounds very much like an
especially vile obscenity. Which is precisely the point.

The grass-mud horse is an example of something that, in China's authoritarian
system, passes as subversive behavior. Conceived as an impish protest against
censorship, the foul-named little horse has not merely made government censors
look ridiculous, although it has surely done that.

It has also raised real questions about China's ability to stanch the flow of
information over the Internet -- a project on which the Chinese government
already has expended untold riches, and written countless software algorithms to
weed deviant thought from the world's largest cyber-community.

Government computers scan Chinese cyberspace constantly, hunting for words and
phrases that censors have dubbed inflammatory or seditious. When they find one,
the offending blog or chat can be blocked within minutes.

Xiao Qiang, an adjunct professor of journalism at the University of California,
Berkeley, who oversees a project that monitors Chinese Web sites, said in an
e-mail message that the grass-mud horse ''has become an icon of resistance to
censorship.''

''The expression and cartoon videos may seem like a juvenile response to an
unreasonable rule,'' he wrote. ''But the fact that the vast online population
has joined the chorus, from serious scholars to usually politically apathetic
urban white-collar workers, shows how strongly this expression resonates.''

Wang Xiaofeng, a journalist and blogger based in Beijing, said in an interview
that the little animal neatly illustrates the futility of censorship. ''When
people have emotions or feelings they want to express, they need a space or
channel,'' he said. ''It is like a water flow -- if you block one direction, it
flows to other directions, or overflows. There's got to be an outlet.''

China's online population has always endured censorship, but the oversight
increased markedly in December, after a pro-democracy movement led by highly
regarded intellectuals, Charter 08, released an online petition calling for an
end to the Communist Party's monopoly on power.

Shortly afterward, government censors began a campaign, ostensibly against
Internet pornography and other forms of deviance. By mid-February, the
government effort had shut down more than 1,900 Web sites and 250 blogs -- not
only overtly pornographic sites, but also online discussion forums,
instant-message groups and even cellphone text messages in which political and
other sensitive issues were broached.

Among the most prominent Web sites that were closed down was bullog.com, a
widely read forum whose liberal-minded bloggers had written in detail about
Charter 08. China Digital Times, Mr. Xiao's monitoring project at the University
of California,  called it ''the most vicious crackdown in years.''

It was against this background that the grass-mud horse and several mythical
companions appeared in early January on the Chinese Internet portal Baidu. The
creatures' names, as written in Chinese, were innocent enough. But much as
''bear'' and ''bare'' have different meanings in English, their spoken names
were double entendres with inarguably dirty second meanings.

So while ''grass-mud horse'' sounds like a nasty curse in Chinese, its written
Chinese characters are completely different, and its meaning --taken literally
-- is benign. Thus the beast not only has dodged censors' computers, but has
also eluded the government's own ban on so-called offensive behavior.

As depicted online, the grass-mud horse seems innocent enough at the start.

An alpaca-like animal -- in fact,  the videos show alpacas -- it lives in a
desert whose name resembles yet another foul word. The horses are ''courageous,
tenacious and overcome the difficult environment,'' a YouTube song about them
says.

But they face a problem: invading ''river crabs'' that are devouring their
grassland. In spoken Chinese, ''river crab'' sounds very much like ''harmony,''
which in China's cyberspace has become a synonym for censorship. Censored
bloggers often say their posts have been ''harmonized'' -- a term directly
derived from President Hu Jintao's regular exhortations for Chinese citizens to
create a harmonious society.

In the end, one song says, the horses are victorious: ''They defeated the river
crabs in order to protect their grassland; river crabs forever disappeared from
the Ma Le Ge Bi,'' the desert.

The online videos' scenes of alpacas happily romping to the Disney-style sounds
of a children's chorus quickly turn shocking -- then, to many Chinese, hilarious
-- as it becomes clear that the songs fairly burst with disgusting language.

To Chinese intellectuals, the songs' message is clearly subversive, a lesson
that citizens can flout authority even as they appear to follow the rules. ''Its
underlying tone is: I know you do not allow me to say certain things. See, I am
completely cooperative, right?'' the Beijing Film Academy professor and social
critic Cui Weiping wrote in her own blog. ''I am singing a cute children's song
-- I am a grass-mud horse! Even though it is heard by the entire world, you
can't say I've broken the law.''

In an essay titled ''I am a grass-mud horse,'' Ms. Cui compared the anti-smut
campaign to China's 1983 ''anti-spiritual pollution campaign,'' another crusade
against pornography whose broader aim was to crush Western-influenced critics of
the ruling party.

Another noted blogger, the Tsinghua University sociologist Guo Yuhua, called the
grass-mud horse allusions ''weapons of the weak'' -- the title of a book by the
Yale political scientist James Scott describing how powerless peasants resisted
dictatorial regimes.

Of course, the government could decide to delete all Internet references to the
phrase ''grass-mud horse,'' an easy task for its censorship software. But while
China's cybercitizens may be weak, they are also ingenious.

The Shanghai blogger Uln already has an idea. Blogging tongue in cheek -- or
perhaps not -- he recently suggested that online democracy advocates stop
referring to Charter 08 by its name, and instead choose a different moniker.
''Wang,'' perhaps. Wang is a ubiquitous surname, and weeding out the subversive
Wangs from the harmless ones might melt circuits in even the censors' most
powerful computer.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Songs about a mythical alpaca- like creature have taken hold
online in China. (pg.A1)
 The popularity of the grass-mud horse has raised questions about China's
ability to stanch the flow of information. (pg.A8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               17 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 26, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Sees Chinese Military Rise, and a Need for More Contact

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 580 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


China is seeking technology and weapons to disrupt the traditional advantages of
American forces, and secrecy surrounding its military creates the potential for
miscalculation on both sides, according to a Pentagon study released Wednesday.

The annual report from the Defense Department to Congress, ''Military Power of
the People's Republic of China 2009,'' catalogs efforts by China to supply its
armed forces with weapons that can be used to intimidate and attack Taiwan and
blunt the superiority of American naval and air power, at least near its
territory.

''We have advocated time and again for more dialogue and transparency in our
dealings with the Chinese government and military, all in an effort to reduce
suspicions on both sides,'' said Geoff Morrell, the Pentagon press secretary.

He said the report should be read as calling ''for deeper, broader, more
high-level contacts with the Chinese.''

Military-to-military relations between the United States and China have tended
to crest and then fall over recent years, with ties having just recovered from
Beijing's outrage over a decision last autumn by Washington to sell Taiwan more
than $6 billion worth of advanced weapons.

But even that resumption of military-to-military talks was threatened this month
after Chinese vessels shadowed and harassed an American surveillance ship in
international waters of the South China Sea.

The report describes how China's military modernization has continued over the
past year, with a particular focus on Taiwan, which China considers a renegade
province. China has built up short-range missiles across from Taiwan, even
though the report concludes that relations between the two have relaxed over the
past year.

Even so, the study said China could not deploy and sustain even small military
units far beyond its borders before 2015. Further, China would not be able to
deploy and sustain large forces in combat operations far from China until well
into the following decade, the report states.

Instead, the Chinese military appears to have embarked on modernization programs
that would allow it to fight and win short conflicts fought with new weapons
along its periphery.

To blunt traditional advantages of the United States, China has invested in new
technologies for cyber- and space warfare, in addition to sustaining and
modernizing its nuclear arsenal, the report said. The Chinese military also is
expanding and improving its fleet of submarines, and hopes to build a number of
new aircraft carriers, the report said.

The report does single out acts by the Chinese military to participate in
international relief and rescue missions. Between 2002 and 2007, the People's
Liberation Army joined at least 14 search-and-rescue missions at sea, and was
involved in 10 emergency relief missions in 14 countries.

Between 2003 and 2007, China also sold nearly $7 billion worth of conventional
weapons around the world, mostly to Pakistan, the report said.

Rep. Ike Skelton, the Missouri Democrat who is chairman of the House Armed
Services Committee, released a statement on Wednesday that expressed concern at
''some of the continuing trends and ambiguities regarding China's military
modernization, including China's missile buildup across from Taiwan and the
steady increase of China's power projection capabilities.''

He said that ''China's military budget continues a trend of double-digit
increases and questions remain about China's strategic intentions.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               18 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 27, 2009 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

U.S. Sees Chinese Military Rise

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER.

Michael Wines contributed reporting from Beijing.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 703 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


China is seeking technology and weapons to disrupt the traditional advantages of
American forces, and secrecy surrounding its military creates the potential for
miscalculation on both sides, according to a Pentagon study released Wednesday.

The annual report from the Defense Department to Congress, ''Military Power of
the People's Republic of China 2009,'' catalogs efforts by China to supply its
armed forces with weapons that can be used to intimidate and attack Taiwan and
blunt the superiority of American naval and air power, at least near its
territory.

''We have advocated time and again for more dialogue and transparency in our
dealings with the Chinese government and military, all in an effort to reduce
suspicions on both sides,'' said Geoff Morrell, the Pentagon press secretary.

He said the report should be read as calling ''for deeper, broader, more
high-level contacts with the Chinese.''

China's Foreign Ministry spokesman, Qin Gang, dismissed the Pentagon report on
Thursday as ''a gross distortion of the facts'' and interference in China's
internal affairs.

''This report issued by the U. S. side continues to play up the fallacy of
China's military threat,'' he said at his regular news briefing in Beijing. He
suggested that the Pentagon stop issuing the annual report to avoid ''further
damage to the two sides' military relations.''

China suspended high-level contacts with the Pentagon last October in response
to the Bush administration's decision to sell a record $6.5 billion in military
equipment to Taiwan. But relations appeared to improve after the deputy
assistant secretary of defense for East Asia, David S. Sedney, held two days of
talks with his Chinese counterparts last month.

Military relations between the United States and China have tended to crest and
then fall over recent years, with ties having just recovered from Beijing's
outrage over the sales  to  Taiwan.

But even the  resumption of military-to-military talks was threatened this month
after Chinese vessels shadowed and harassed an American surveillance ship in
international waters of the South China Sea.

The Pentagon report describes how China's military modernization has continued
over the past year, with a particular focus on Taiwan, which China considers a
renegade province. China has built up short-range missiles across from Taiwan,
even though the report concludes that relations between the two have relaxed
over the past year.

Even so, the study said China could not deploy and sustain even small military
units far beyond its borders before 2015. Further, China would not be able to
deploy and sustain large forces in combat operations far from China until well
into the following decade, the report states.

Instead, the Chinese military appears to have embarked on modernization programs
that would allow it to fight and win short conflicts fought with new weapons
along its periphery.

To blunt traditional advantages of the United States, China has invested in new
technologies for cyber- and space warfare, in addition to sustaining and
modernizing its nuclear arsenal, the report said. The Chinese military also is
expanding and improving its fleet of submarines, and hopes to build a number of
new aircraft carriers, the report said.

The report does single out acts by the Chinese military to participate in
international relief and rescue missions. Between 2002 and 2007, the People's
Liberation Army joined at least 14 search-and-rescue missions at sea, and was
involved in 10 emergency relief missions in 14 countries.

Between 2003 and 2007, China also sold nearly $7 billion worth of conventional
weapons around the world, mostly to Pakistan, the report said.

Rep. Ike Skelton, the Missouri Democrat who is chairman of the House Armed
Services Committee, released a statement on Wednesday that expressed concern at
''some of the continuing trends and ambiguities regarding China's military
modernization, including China's missile buildup across from Taiwan and the
steady increase of China's power projection capabilities.''

He said that ''China's military budget continues a trend of double-digit
increases and questions remain about China's strategic intentions.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               19 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 29, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

VAST SPY SYSTEM LOOTS COMPUTERS IN 103 COUNTRIES

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1447 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


A vast electronic spying operation has infiltrated computers and has stolen
documents from hundreds of government and private offices around the world,
including those of the Dalai Lama, Canadian researchers have concluded.

In a report to be issued this weekend, the researchers said that the system was
being controlled from computers based almost exclusively in China, but that they
could not say conclusively that the Chinese government was involved.

The researchers, who are based at the Munk Center for International Studies at
the University of Toronto, had been asked by the office of the Dalai Lama, the
exiled Tibetan leader whom China regularly denounces, to examine its computers
for signs of malicious software, or malware.

Their sleuthing opened a window into a broader operation that, in less than two
years, has infiltrated at least 1,295 computers in 103 countries, including many
belonging to embassies, foreign ministries and other government offices, as well
as the Dalai Lama's Tibetan exile centers in India, Brussels, London and New
York.

The researchers, who have a record of detecting computer espionage, said they
believed that in addition to the spying on the Dalai Lama, the system, which
they called GhostNet, was focused on the governments of South Asian and
Southeast Asian countries.

Intelligence analysts say many governments, including those of China, Russia and
the United States, and other parties use sophisticated computer programs to
covertly gather information.

The newly reported spying operation is by far the largest to come to light in
terms of countries affected.

This is also believed to be the first time researchers have been able to expose
the workings of a computer system used in an intrusion of this magnitude.

Still going strong, the operation continues to invade and monitor more than a
dozen new computers a week, the researchers said in their report, ''Tracking
'GhostNet': Investigating a Cyber Espionage Network.'' They said they had found
no evidence that United States government offices had been infiltrated, although
a NATO computer was monitored by the spies for half a day and computers of the
Indian Embassy in Washington were infiltrated.

The malware is remarkable both for its sweep -- in computer jargon, it has not
been merely ''phishing'' for random consumers' information, but ''whaling'' for
particular important targets -- and for its Big Brother-style capacities. It
can, for example, turn on the camera and audio-recording functions of an
infected computer, enabling monitors to see and hear what goes on in a room. The
investigators say they do not know if this facet has been employed.

The researchers were able to monitor the commands given to infected computers
and to see the names of documents retrieved by the spies, but in most cases the
contents of the stolen files have not been determined. Working with the
Tibetans, however, the researchers found that specific correspondence had been
stolen and that the intruders had gained control of the electronic mail server
computers of the Dalai Lama's organization.

The electronic spy game has had at least some real-world impact, they said. For
example, they said, after an e-mail invitation was sent by the Dalai Lama's
office to a foreign diplomat, the Chinese government made a call to the diplomat
discouraging a visit. And a  woman working for a group making Internet contacts
between Tibetan exiles and Chinese citizens was stopped by Chinese intelligence
officers on her way back to Tibet, shown transcripts of her  online
conversations and warned to stop her political activities.

The Toronto researchers said they had notified international law enforcement
agencies of the spying operation, which in their view exposed basic shortcomings
in the legal structure of cyberspace. The F.B.I. declined to comment on the
operation.

Although the Canadian researchers said that most of the computers behind the
spying were in China, they cautioned against concluding that  China's government
was involved. The spying could be a nonstate, for-profit operation, for example,
or one run by private citizens in China known as ''patriotic hackers.''

''We're a bit more careful about it, knowing the nuance of what happens in the
subterranean realms,'' said Ronald J. Deibert, a member of the research group
and an associate professor of political science at Munk. ''This could well be
the C.I.A. or the Russians. It's a murky realm that we're lifting the lid on.''

A spokesman for the Chinese Consulate in New York dismissed the idea that China
was involved. ''These are old stories and they are nonsense,'' the spokesman,
Wenqi Gao, said. ''The Chinese government is opposed to and strictly forbids any
cybercrime.''

The Toronto researchers, who allowed a reporter for The New York Times to review
the spies' digital tracks, are publishing their findings in Information Warfare
Monitor, an online publication associated with the Munk Center.

At the same time, two computer researchers at Cambridge University in Britain
who worked on the part of the investigation related to the Tibetans, are
releasing an independent report. They do fault China, and they warned that other
hackers could adopt the tactics used in the malware operation.

''What Chinese spooks did in 2008, Russian crooks will do in 2010 and even
low-budget criminals from less developed countries will follow in due course,''
the Cambridge researchers, Shishir Nagaraja and Ross Anderson, wrote in their
report, ''The Snooping Dragon: Social Malware Surveillance of the Tibetan
Movement.''

In any case, it was suspicions of Chinese interference that led to the discovery
of the spy operation. Last summer, the office of the Dalai Lama invited two
specialists to India to audit computers used by the Dalai Lama's organization.
The specialists, Greg Walton, the editor of Information Warfare Monitor, and Mr.
Nagaraja, a network security expert, found that the computers had indeed been
infected and that intruders had stolen files from personal computers serving
several Tibetan exile groups.

Back in Toronto, Mr. Walton shared data with colleagues at the Munk Center's
computer lab.

One of them was Nart Villeneuve, 34, a graduate student and self-taught ''white
hat'' hacker with dazzling technical skills. Last year, Mr. Villeneuve linked
the Chinese version of the Skype communications service to a Chinese government
operation that was systematically eavesdropping on users' instant-messaging
sessions.

Early this month, Mr. Villeneuve noticed an odd string of 22 characters embedded
in files created by the malicious software and searched for it with Google. It
led him to a group of computers on Hainan Island, off China, and to a Web site
that would prove to be critically important.

In a puzzling security lapse, the Web page that Mr. Villeneuve found was not
protected by a password, while much of the rest of the system uses encryption.

Mr. Villeneuve and his colleagues figured out how the operation worked by
commanding it to infect a system in their  computer lab in Toronto. On  March
12, the spies took their own bait. Mr. Villeneuve watched a brief series of
commands flicker on his computer screen as someone -- presumably in China --
rummaged through the files. Finding nothing of interest, the intruder soon
disappeared.

Through trial and error, the researchers learned to use the system's
Chinese-language ''dashboard'' -- a control panel reachable with a standard Web
browser -- by which one could manipulate the more than 1,200 computers worldwide
that had by then been infected.

Infection happens two ways. In one method, a user's clicking on a document
attached to an e-mail message lets the system covertly install software deep in
the target operating system. Alternatively, a user clicks on a Web link in an
e-mail message and is taken directly to a ''poisoned'' Web site.

The researchers said they avoided breaking any laws during three weeks of
monitoring and extensively experimenting with the system's unprotected software
control panel. They provided, among other information, a log of compromised
computers dating to May 22, 2007.

They found that three of the four control servers were in different provinces in
China -- Hainan, Guangdong and Sichuan -- while the fourth was discovered to be
at a Web-hosting company based in Southern California.

Beyond that, said Rafal A. Rohozinski, one of the investigators, ''attribution
is difficult because there is no agreed upon international legal framework for
being able to pursue investigations down to their logical conclusion, which is
highly local.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Toronto academic researchers who are reporting on the spying
operation dubbed GhostNet include, from left, Ronald J. Deibert, Greg Walton,
Nart Villeneuve and Rafal A. Rohozinski. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM LEYES FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (pg.A10) MAP: THE VAST REACH OF 'GHOSTNET': Researchers have
detected an intelligence gathering operation involving at least 1,295
compromised computers. Below, the locations of 347 of the compromised machines,
many of which were tracked to diplomatic and economic government offices of
South and Southeast Asian countries. (Source: Information Warfare Monitor)
(pg.A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               20 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 5, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Covenant to Do More Than Coexist

BYLINE: By KATE STONE LOMBARDI

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; COUNTY LINES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 915 words

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS


WHEN David Juhren gives directions to the new headquarters of the Loft, the
region's well-known community center for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender
people, he says, ''Look for the rainbow flag out front.'' Then Mr. Juhren, the
Loft's executive director, likes to add, ''And it's not ours -- it's the
church's.''

The rainbow flag, known as a symbol of diversity and inclusiveness, has been
flying in front of the Memorial Methodist Church here for many years, long
before the Loft moved onto the church campus in January from a higher-priced
site downtown. To the Rev. Joe Agne, pastor of Memorial Methodist, welcoming the
group is a natural extension of the hospitality his congregation offers to
people who have been shunned by the  parent church. To Mr. Juhren,  the center's
new home represents an opportunity to reach out to a faith-based organization.

They're calling the relationship a covenant. To be sure, the Loft has a lease
and pays rent. But the arrangement goes beyond a financial agreement. The Loft
and the church have promised to ''commit to mutual hospitality, respect and
support of each other's missions'' and to work toward ''inclusiveness of our
shared communities.''

If it all sounds warm and cozy, keep in mind that the 8.2 million-member United
Methodist Church prohibits same-sex marriage and the ordination of gay clergy
members and holds that same-sex relationships are ''incompatible with Christian
tradition.''

As in most mainstream Protestant denominations, the larger membership is deeply
divided over these issues.

Mr. Agne has been arrested twice for protesting what he saw as homophobic
policies at a General Assembly meeting of the United Methodist Church. He has
long advocated the inclusion of gays and lesbians in Christian life. Last month,
Memorial Methodist introduced Rainbow Vespers, a service specifically designed
to be welcoming to gays and lesbians and their families.

''The Bible has been used as a weapon to exclude every targetable population in
history,'' Mr. Agne said. ''What we look for in the church is the heart of the
message in scripture. And from my perspective, the heart is that wherever Jesus
was, he looked around to see who was the most marginalized person, and he said,
'I am with that person.' ''

(Mr. Juhren described himself as ''a person of faith,'' and he has also studied
the scripture. ''The Bible has been translated twice already, and there's a lot
lost there,'' he said. ''In its current translation, it's an abomination for two
men to sleep together, but it's also an abomination to go down to the Red
Lobster and order a shrimp cocktail.'')

The United Methodist Church has not protested the arrangement with the Loft.
''It's really a matter of renting space, and we're pretty open in terms of
hospitality,'' said the Rev. Noel Chin, superintendent of the Metropolitan
District of the New York Conference of the United Methodist Church. ''We look at
it in that vein; it represents the church's intention to reach out.''

Mr. Agne said that some members of the congregation might be skeptical, but ''we
decided somewhere along the line that our niche as a congregation is to be
welcoming and inviting to those who have rejected the church for understandable
reasons.''

Some members of the Loft's board of directors were concerned about the move to
the church campus, Mr. Juhren said. Many members of the Loft have been hurt by
their own denominations. In a church service to welcome the Loft, the Rev. Sara
Thompson Tweedy, a staff member of the church who is leading the Rainbow
Vespers, voiced their anxieties rhetorically: ''Why are you seeking refuge in
the lion's den of a homophobic institution that is the United Methodist
Church?''

Mr. Juhren said that the Loft wasn't looking at the Methodist church in its
entirety, but rather at this specific church, where the group's  members knew
they would be welcome.

''One of the things that the L.G.B.T. community understands is that if we are
going to get anywhere on gaining our equal rights, gaining marriage equality, on
further acceptance of us, we know we have to reach out to the faith-based
organizations,'' Mr. Juhren said. ''Many of us are individuals who were raised
in churches and who early on were given a faith, and that faith sometimes has to
be so strong to weather the spears and arrows of the hostility that are often
thrown our way.''

The Loft, he stressed, is not ''a gay club,'' but an advocacy and community
service organization, financed by state and federal grants.

One program, for instance, provides support to gay senior citizens, who often do
not have children to help to care for them, and who do not receive benefits when
their long-term partners die. The new space has meeting rooms, a lounge with a
large TV, a library and cyber-center, room for the Loft's help line and
administrative offices.

The space was most recently occupied as a day care center for people with
Alzheimer's disease. Before that, it had been used as the regional offices of
the United Methodist Church. Mr. Juhren's office, which is flooded with natural
light, was once the office of the United Methodist bishop of New York.

''For the Loft to trust enough to come to the campus of Memorial, that was an
incredible witness to us,'' Mr. Agne said. ''It's not lost on us that we're part
of a bigger system that has got some real problems. This was a risky move on the
Loft's part and a real testament to the people of this congregation.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Juhren, executive director of the Loft, left, with the
Rev. Joe Agne of Memorial United Methodist Church. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               21 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 5, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

40 Years On, It's Woodstock 'The Brand'

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME.

E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 733 words

DATELINE: WOODSTOCK, N.Y.


As we approach the 40th anniversary of the concert that wasn't held here, it's
important to know that these days Woodstock Nation, like Caesar's Gaul, is
divided into three parts.

There's the concert site itself, about an hour from here, which is now part of
the Bethel Woods Center for the Arts, where there will no doubt be concerts,
museum exhibits, movies and assorted observances of the half million who
luxuriated in the muck and shouted ''No rain, no rain,'' in August 1969.

There's Michael Lang, one of Woodstock's co-creators, who has a memoir coming
out, who has made assorted marketing deals for the Woodstock logo and gear and
who is hoping to put together a free, greenish concert extravaganza, perhaps in
Brooklyn or Queens, near the anniversary of the event.

And then, there are the purveyors of a new cyber-Woodstock for the Internet era,
who can be found in the intergalactic headquarters of the Woodstock Broadcasting
Network. Once this was a tiny local station, WDST Radio Woodstock, where various
shaggy-haired creatures played progressive rock. Now, through a combination of
smart trademark lawyering and advances in broadband technology and streaming
media, it can make a credible claim for bringing Woodstock to the world.

Indeed, while mighty commercial empires and brands have dwindled or collapsed,
there are few brands, after all these years, as resilient as Woodstock's.

''Everything we do is about the brand,'' said Gary Chetkof, who with Richard
Fusco runs Woodstock Broadcasting Network, the enterprise that is one part local
radio station, one part concert promoter and one part fledgling new-media
conglomerate. ''It's about programming to the Woodstock brand, connecting music
from the late '60s to today, the alternative, holistic lifestyle and products
that cater to it. We're not just tied to this piece of earth we're sitting on
any more.''

Of course, lots of people have their own ties to the Woodstock experience, from
the guys with stringy ponytails who came in 1969 and never left to tie-dyed high
school kids. Locally they include sundry big-time musicians who still call the
place home, merchants at places like Ye Olde Hippie Shoppe of Woodstock or the
people driving old Volvos with bumper stickers reading: ''Welcome to Woodstock:
We're All Here Because We're Not All There.''

AS it is everywhere, the economy here is sagging, but people are hoping for a
boost from the anniversary, few more so than Radio Woodstock. Mr. Fusco, who
once ran a beloved local club, the Joyous Lake, was part of the original
programming team when WDST began in 1980. When Mr. Chetkof bought it in 1993, he
and Mr. Fusco focused on the broadcast and online possibilities and began
trademarking names and Web addresses.

''I specialized in trademarks, and I realized, 'Wow, I could own the radio
station and one day it could be beamed all over the world,' '' Mr. Chetkof said
in his office,  a riot of old guitars and music memorabilia. ''Usually you
create a product and establish the brand. This is the opposite. We're trying to
fit things programming-wise and commerce-wise into this existing global brand.''

Their plans include music Web sites, a Woodstock social network and perhaps a
cable station where Woodstock TV reporters could report from concerts the way
the Weather Channel descends on hurricanes.

There will, of course, be much more this year, including many books, an Ang Lee
film and a four-hour director's cut of the Woodstock concert movie with
previously unreleased footage.

Mr. Lang and Bethel Woods are trying to complete separate concert plans, but Mr.
Lang says all signs are propitious for a major celebration.

''There seems like a big appetite for it, and a lot may have to do with what's
going on around us,'' he said. ''The election of Barack Obama seems like a
Woodstock moment in a way. And there are a lot of similarities between the late
1960s and where we are now. That was sort of an out-of-the-blue moment of hope
when people saw a better path, and I think people are looking for something like
that now.''

On the other hand, maybe the 40th will be a big moment simply because who knows
who will be alive, sensate and ambulatory by the 50th.

As Barry Samuels, who owns the Golden Notebook bookstore, said, ''We might as
well celebrate the 40th like it's the 50th, because who knows who's going to be
around in 10 years?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               22 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 10, 2009 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Dissenter on Warming Expands His Campaign

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1226 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Marc Morano does not think global warming is anything to worry about, and he
brags about his confrontations with those who do.

For example, Mr. Morano said he once spotted former Vice President Al Gore on an
airplane returning from a climate conference in Bali. Mr. Gore was posing for
photos with well-wishers, and Mr. Morano said  he had asked if he, too, could
have his picture taken with Mr. Gore.

He refused, Mr. Morano said.

''You attack me all the time,'' Mr. Gore said, according to Mr. Morano.

''Yes, we do,'' Mr. Morano said he had replied.

Mr. Gore's office said Mr. Gore had no memory of the encounter. Mr. Morano does
not care. He tells the story anyway.

As a spokesman for Senator James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma, the ranking Republican
on the Environment and Public Works Committee, Mr. Morano was for years a
ceaseless purveyor of the dissenting view on climate change, sending out a
blizzard of e-mail  to journalists covering the issue. Now, with Congress
debating legislation to curb carbon dioxide emissions, Mr. Morano is hoping to
have an even greater impact. He has left his job with Mr. Inhofe to start his
own Web site, ClimateDepot.com.

The site, scheduled to debut this week, will be a ''one-stop shop'' for anyone
following climate change, Mr. Morano says. He will post research he thinks the
public should see, as well as reported video segments and ratings of
environmental journalists.

Supporters see Mr. Morano as a crucial organizing force who has taken diffuse
pieces of scientific research and fused them into a political battering ram.

''Before Marc, efforts to debunk global warming were scattered and
disorganized,'' said John Coleman, a weather broadcaster who helped found the
Weather Channel and who has called global warming ''a scam.''

And environmentalists and mainstream climate scientists, however much they
disagree with Mr. Morano's views, still pay attention to what he does.

Kert Davies, the research director of Greenpeace, said he would like to dismiss
Mr. Morano as irrelevant, but could not.

''He is relentless pushing out misinformation,'' Mr. Davies  said. ''In denying
the urgency of the problem, he definitely slows things down on the regulatory
front. Eventually, he will be held accountable, but it may be too late.''

In his work with Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Morano, whose thick build fills out his suit
like a bulldog in a restraining jacket, did not hesitate to go after journalists
he saw as biased. He promoted any study or statement that could be construed as
cutting against the prevailing view that heat-trapping  gases like carbon
dioxide contribute to global warming. Peter Dykstra, a former executive producer
for CNN's science, environment and technology unit, recently called him the
''drum major of the denial parade.''

Mr. Morano may be best known for compiling a report listing hundreds of
scientists whose work he says undermines the consensus on global warming.

But environmental advocates and bloggers say that many of those listed as
scientists have no scientific credentials and that their work persuaded no one
not already ideologically committed.

Mr. Morano's new Web site is being financed by the Committee for a Constructive
Tomorrow, a nonprofit in Washington that advocates for free-market solutions to
environmental issues.

Craig Rucker, a co-founder of the organization, said the committee got about a
third of its money from other foundations. But Mr. Rucker  would not identify
them or say how much his foundation would pay Mr. Morano. (Mr. Morano says it
will be more than the $134,000 he earned annually in the Senate.)

Public tax filings for 2003-7 -- the last five years for which documents are
available -- show that the Committee for a Constructive Tomorrow received
hundreds of thousands of dollars from the ExxonMobil Foundation and from
foundations associated with the billionaire Richard Mellon Scaife, a longtime
financer of conservative causes best known for its efforts to have President
Bill Clinton impeached. Mr. Rucker said Exxon had not contributed anything last
year.

Mr. Morano grew up in a conservative household in Northern Virginia with an
affinity for nature and animals -- his basement was home to a menagerie of
reptiles, including a boa constrictor.

''I used to tell people I was Republican except on the environment,'' he said.

After college, Mr. Morano worked as a reporter for Rush Limbaugh, where he said
he had learned the satisfactions of poking at the ''liberal establishment.'' He
made a documentary on the Amazon rain forest, he said, because it annoyed him
that celebrities like Sting could dictate what people think about the issue.
They  vastly exaggerated the problem of deforestation, he concluded.

He then jumped to Cyber News Service, where he was the first to publish
accusations from Vietnam Swift-boat veterans that Senator John Kerry of
Massachusetts, then the Democratic presidential nominee, had glorified his war
record. Many of the accusations later proved unfounded.

Mr. Morano is proud of his work, which he says is not advocacy but truth
seeking.

''Even in the Senate, I'd put up any of the stories we did against any pablum
Time or Newsweek has put out on global warming,'' he said. ''We'd link to the
other side; we'd present their arguments. They do one-sided screeds.''

In 2007, he points out, the Republican Web site of Mr. Inhofe's committee won an
award from the independent Congressional Management Foundation.

But some scientists and environmental advocates who have made it their business
to monitor Mr. Morano see his reports -- the most recent was titled ''More than
700 International Scientists Dissent Over Man-Made Global Warming Claims'' -- as
far from balanced.

Kevin Grandia, who manages Desmogblog.com, which describes itself as dedicated
to combating misinformation on climate change, says the report is filled with
so-called experts who are really weather broadcasters and others without
advanced degrees.

Chris Allen, for example, the weather director for WBKO-TV in Kentucky, is
listed as a meteorologist on the report, even though he has no degree in
meteorology. On his Web site, Mr. Allen has written that his major objection to
the idea of human-influenced climate change is that ''it completely takes God
out of the picture.'' Mr. Allen did not respond to phone calls.

Mr. Grandia also said  Mr. Morano's report misrepresented the work of legitimate
scientists. Mr. Grandia pointed to Steve Rayner, a professor at Oxford, who was
mentioned for articles criticizing the Kyoto Protocol, the 1997 international
treaty on curbing carbon dioxide emissions.

Dr. Rayner, however, in no way disputes the existence of global warming or that
human activity contributes to it, as the report implies. In e-mail messages, he
said that he had asked to be removed from the Morano report and that a staff
member in Mr. Inhofe's office had promised that he would be. He called his
inclusion on the list ''quite outrageous.''

Asked about Dr. Rayner, Mr. Morano was unmoved. He said that he had no record of
Dr. Rayner's  asking to be removed from the list and that the doctor must be
''not to be remembering this clearly.''

Many scientists, Mr. Morano said, are afraid that appearing on the list will
have political fallout.

And political fallout, for him, is the point.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 14, 2009



CORRECTION: An article on Friday about Marc Morano, a leading climate dissenter
who has started a new Web site to promote a skeptical view of global warming,
misstated the name of a company that once employed him. It is Cybercast News
Service, not Cyber News Service.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marc Morano, a former spokesman for Republicans on the Senate
environmental committee.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN ETHERIDGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               23 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 14, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 42 words


An article on Friday about Marc Morano, a leading climate dissenter who has
started a new Web site to promote a skeptical view of global warming, misstated
the name of a company that once employed him. It is Cybercast News Service, not
Cyber News Service.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               24 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 17, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Control of Cybersecurity Becomes Divisive Issue

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN and ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1023 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The National Security Agency has been campaigning to lead the government's
rapidly growing cybersecurity programs, raising privacy and civil liberties
concerns among some officials who fear that the move could give the spy agency
too much control over government computer networks.

The Obama administration is expected to complete an internal cybersecurity
review on Friday and may publicly announce its new computer-security strategy as
early as next week, White House officials said Thursday. That plan will
determine the scope of cybersecurity efforts throughout the federal government,
they said, as well as which agencies will take leading roles in protecting the
government's computer systems.

The security agency's interest in taking over the dominant role has met
resistance, including the resignation of the Homeland Security Department
official who was until last month in charge of coordinating cybersecurity
efforts throughout the government.

Rod Beckstrom, who resigned in March as director of the National Cyber Security
Center at the Homeland Security Department, said in an interview that he feared
that the N.S.A.'s push for a greater role in guarding the government's computer
systems could give it  the power to collect and analyze every e-mail message,
text message and Google search conducted by every employee in every federal
agency.

Mr. Beckstrom said he believed that an intelligence service that is supposed to
focus on foreign targets should not be given so much control over the flow of
information within the United States government. To detect threats against the
computer infrastructure -- including hackers, viruses and intrusions by foreign
agents and terrorists -- cybersecurity guardians must have virtually unlimited
access to networks. Mr. Beckstrom argues that those responsibilities should be
divided  among agencies.

''I have very serious concerns about the concentration of too much power in one
agency,'' he said. ''Power over information is so important, and it is so
difficult to monitor, that we need to have checks and balances.''

Government officials have acknowledged that the  agency has gone beyond the
broad limits set by Congress last year for intercepting telephone and e-mail
messages of Americans. Leading Democratic and Republican lawmakers and civil
liberties groups voiced strong concerns Thursday after The New York Times
reported the breach.

Senator Dianne Feinstein, the California Democrat who leads the Senate
Intelligence Committee, said in a statement that ''these are serious
allegations, and we will make sure we get the facts.'' The committee plans to
hold a closed hearing on the issue soon, Mrs. Feinstein  said.

Representative Silvestre Reyes, the Texas Democrat who leads the House
Intelligence Committee, said his panel had already held four closed-door
sessions on N.S.A. compliance problems, and he said it would continue to monitor
the issue actively. Representative Peter Hoekstra, the Michigan Republican who
is the ranking minority member on the committee, complained, though, that the
intelligence community had failed to inform Congress of the problem in ''a quick
and timely manner.''

Some lawmakers said hearings were not enough. Senator Russ Feingold, a Wisconsin
Democrat who was an outspoken opponent of the legislation that broadened the
security agency's wiretapping powers last year, said  the wiretapping problems
were part of ''a tragic retreat from the principles that had governed the
sensitive area of government surveillance for the previous three decades.''  Mr.
Feingold called for reforms in intelligence law as well as the public release of
certain aspects of wiretapping operations ''so that the American people can
better understand their scope and impact.''

Dennis C. Blair, the director of national intelligence, defended the agency's
wiretapping operation in a statement Thursday as ''vital work'' in protecting
national security, but he acknowledged that ''on occasion, N.S.A. has made
mistakes and intercepted the wrong communications.'' Mr. Blair  said the numbers
of such mistakes were ''very small'' in  the agency's vast overall collection
efforts, although officials would not quantify how many violations had occurred.

Some experts said Thursday that the disclosure of excessive domestic collection
of information by the security agency  served as a warning against giving it
greater control over cybersecurity.

''The N.S.A.'s expertise, which is impressive and very, very deep, is focused
primarily on the needs of the military and the intelligence community,'' said
Matt Blaze, a computer security expert at the University of Pennsylvania.
''Their track record in dealing with civilian communications security is mixed
at best.''

Agency officials declined to comment Thursday, but the N.S.A. -- which has the
greatest concentration of computing power and expertise in the government -- has
powerful allies in its bid for control. Mr. Blair told Congress recently that he
believed the agency  should be given the lead in cybersecurity, arguing that it
has the computer ''wizards'' with the skills needed.

In a recent interview, Dale Meyerrose, a retired Air Force general who was the
chief information officer for the director of national intelligence until last
year, agreed, saying that while intelligence officials need to be mindful of
civil liberties concerns in the cybersecurity debate, the N.S.A. must have a
leading role in that effort because of its technical expertise.

''They are probably the premier cybersecurity, cyberorganization in the world,''
General Meyerrose  said.

Like Mr. Beckstrom, others worry about giving a spy agency a virtual monopoly
over information security.

''There is a tremendous amount of expertise at N.S.A.,'' said Amit Yoran, the
former director of the cybersecurity division of the Homeland Security
Department, ''but I also agree that it would be a significant detriment to the
nation to let the N.S.A. be the lead agency running cyberprograms. There is an
inherent conflict of interest between their intelligence mission and the mission
of the folks doing cyber.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               25 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 23, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Call for White House Control of Security

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF; Thom Shanker contributed reporting from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 575 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


The  federal official in charge of a  review of the nation's strategy for
improving Internet and computer security said Wednesday that the White House
needed to step in and take control of the nation's cybersecurity policy.

''It requires leading from the top: from the White House, to departments and
agencies, state, local, tribal governments, the C-Suite, and to the local
classroom and library,'' said the official, Melissa Hathaway, who was named
acting senior director for cyberspace by President Obama and given
responsibility for a 60-day review of the issues surrounding cyberspace threats.

The creation of such a White House office was called for last year by a
bipartisan group of politicians, technologists and cybersecurity specialists who
wrote in a report that the nation's computer security systems had reached a
crisis point and that a White House ''czar'' was needed to focus on instituting
both new technologies and new policies.

Cybersecurity specialists welcomed the administration's decision to put the
security issue at the fore, but they emphasized that the review, which is likely
to be made public this week, is simply the opening round in what may become a
bruising political battle over how much control should be exercised and over
which agencies of the government will take command of computer security.

''There is still a lot of fighting within the White House,'' said James A.
Lewis, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and
the director of the study ''Security Cyberspace for the 44th Presidency,''
issued last November.

There are now at least three camps involved in the decision that the president
will make about control of cybersecurity, Mr. Lewis said: traditional national
security policy analysts who are not focused on the cyberthreat; intelligence
and military agencies that are seeking to consolidate power and influence over
cyberpolicy; and an influential group that has said stricter cybersecurity
regulations could damage innovative Internet industries associated with Silicon
Valley.

''We didn't expect the Googles of the world coming in and saying, this makes us
nervous,'' he said.

Several former government executives said they saw the early influence of the
Obama administration on Ms. Hathaway's speech.

''I was pleased to see an emphasis on collaborative values in working with our
international partners and a new emphasis on investing in research and
development,'' said Rod Beckstrom, who resigned last month as director of the
National Cybersecurity Center and warned about the growing influence of the
National Security Agency over cybersecurity efforts by the federal government.

Independently, the Pentagon is considering ways to consolidate its efforts for
cyberwarfare under one headquarters, with the leading proposal being to create
an organization within a current military command. Defense Secretary Robert M.
Gates, in a speech last week,  said he was examining proposals for a new
cyberheadquarters within the military's Strategic Command, known as Stratcom,
which already has a significant military role in computer network defenses.

''One of the things that I'm looking at is establishing a sub-unified command at
Stratcom for cyber,'' Mr. Gates said.

Senior Defense Department officials said current proposals did not envision
creating a wholly separate command for cyberwarfare, nor in putting one
individual armed service in charge.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Melissa Hathaway, acting senior director for cyberspace, urged
action on cybersecurity.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BUSINESS WIRE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               26 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 27, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tired of Old Web Friends? A New Site Promises Strangers

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS QUENQUA

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 356 words


Even from its earliest days, the Internet has promised to bring together people
based on common interests rather than ZIP codes. But the sudden rise of a new
Web site suggests some people are growing weary of all that sameness.

Omegle.com connects its users with random, anonymous strangers for a private,
real-time chat. The site, which started last month, was developed by Leif
K-Brooks, an 18-year-old amateur Web programmer and high school student in
Vermont who was worried that people's Web interactions had ''become stagnant.''

''You can't learn anything from someone exactly like you,'' said Mr. K-Brooks.
''The goal was to create a new kind of association: anonymous interaction with a
stranger that complements existing social sites and helps people broaden their
horizons.''

Less than a month after its debut, Omegle is drawing about 150,000 page views a
day, according to Mr. K-Brooks, and is growing quickly through word of mouth.

Whether the site is actually broadening anyone's horizons is another question.
Mr. K-Brooks says he doesn't monitor the conversations and has no data on how
people are using the site. ''As long as people are having fun, I'm happy,'' he
said.

Mr. K-Brooks's aspirations for the site are modest. He makes some money by
selling advertising on Omegle's home page, but is realistic about the limits of
anonymous chat.  ''I think most of the features I add over time will be
relatively small, building on the core I've already established,'' he said.
Then, there is this suggestion, on the Web site's ''Start a Chat'' page: ''Send
feedback to Omegle (or a job offer to its founder).''

It is perhaps not surprising that Omegle has arrived in the age of Facebook,
where etiquette and accountability threaten to squeeze some of the fun out of
Web surfing. But that could also be its downfall, says Jason Tanz, a senior
editor at Wired.

''The first person I connected with said, 'let's have cyber right now,' '' he
said of his experience on Omegle, referring to cybersex. ''The second was a
14-year-old kid from London. It's not hard to see how this is going to be a
problem.''  DOUGLAS QUENQUA

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Omegle offers ''completely anonymous'' chats with random
strangers.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               27 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 27, 2009 Monday
                         The New York Times on the Web

People and Accounts of Note

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEBDENDA; Pg.

LENGTH: 1253 words


Ad 2 Tampa Bay, Tampa, Fla., won the Club of the Year Award from the American
Advertising Federation.

Christian Brucculeri joined Robin Leedy & Associates, Mount Kisko, N.Y., in a
new post, director for social media at the Chatter R.L.&A. division. He had been
a senior account director at the YouCast Corporation, Brooklyn.

Sue Davidson joined MediaCom, New York, part of the GroupM unit of WPP, in dual
roles. She will be senior partner and director for communications planning and
director for the agency's new ''freshness'' initiative. She had been a
strategist at Atmosphere Proximity, New York, part of the Proximity unit of BBDO
Worldwide, a division of the Omnicom Group.

Louise Dengerud, associate account director at Olson, Minneapolis, was promoted
to account director.

Executive Golf International, a boutique marketing and consulting company, moved
to New York from Miami.

Colleen Fleury joined Seiter & Miller Advertising, New York, as account director
on the New York University School of Continuing and Professional Services
account. She had been an account supervisor at Modernista, Boston.

Joe Gallagher, executive vice president for United States sales at Broadband
Enterprises, New York, assumed the new, additional duties of executive vice
president for international sales.

Gertrude, Chicago, hired eight employees. Three are art directors: Stephanie
Powell, Zina Simonaitis and Sarah Stickles. Three are copywriters: Peter
Kliefoth, Kevin Orsini and Peter Toutant. Joe Cardoso becomes brand
communications manager and Marya Fletcher becomes director for brand
communication.

Justin Glueck joined the Wessling Creative Group, San Francisco, as associate
director for e-marketing. He had been a partner at Digital Storm, Coventry,
England.

Tim Harris rejoined Denuo, Chicago, part of the VivaKi unit of the Publicis
Groupe, as senior vice president. He had spent the last two years developing
video games and before that founded the Denuo gaming division, Play, and
co-founded Starcom IP, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of Publicis.

Thomas Hartman, vice president for corporate sales at the Conde Nast Media
Group, New York, part of the Conde Nast Publications unit of Advance
Publications, was promoted to senior vice president. He succeeds Louis Cona, who
was recently promoted to president. Also, Chris Gibbons, executive director for
integrated marketing, was promoted to executive director for sales. Elizabeth
Lunny, a director for integrated marketing, becomes corporate sales director for
the liquor and financial categories. Diane Mattioli becomes corporate sales
director for luxury goods; she had been the luxury product manager at a Conde
Nast magazine, Vogue. Sandra Mauriello, a director for integrated marketing,
becomes a corporate sales director for the pharmaceutical and mass-beauty
categories. Jennifer Moccia, executive luxury director, becomes executive
fashion director. And Daniella Wells becomes executive director for marketing;
she had been associate publisher for marketing and creative services at The New
Yorker, also a Conde Nast magazine.

Marta Loeb joined Just Kid Inc., Norwalk, Conn., as director for qualitative
research. She had been president at her own research company, Silver Stork.

Michelin North America, Greenville, S.C., part of Michelin, named Cliff Freeman
& Partners, New York, as the marketing agency in the United States for the 2010
Michelin Restaurant Guide. A campaign, with undisclosed spending, will include
print, social media and online advertising.

Method Products, San Francisco, chose the San Francisco office of Euro RSCG
Worldwide, part of Havas, as its digital marketing agency of record. Billings
for the assignment, previously handled by AKQA, San Francisco, were not
disclosed. Method markets home and personal-care products.

The Outdoor Advertising Association of America, Washington, presented its 67th
annual Obie Awards for outstanding work in advertising outside the home. The
best of show Obie Awards were presented to the flagship New York office of BBDO
Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, for a campaign for The Economist magazine,
and to the Toronto office of Leo Burnett, part of the Publicis Groupe, for a
campaign for James Ready beer. The Absolut vodka campaign, created by
TBWA/Chiat/Day  -- part of the TBWA Worldwide unit of Omnicom -- won the 2009
Obie Hall of Fame Award.

Borja Perez, vice president for market development of digital media at the
Telemundo Communications Group, Miami, was promoted to a new post, vice
president for integrated solutions and digital media. The Telemundo
Communications Group is part of the NBC Universal division of the General
Electric Company.

Brent Poer joined MediaVest USA as senior vice president and managing director
for Los Angeles operations. He succeeds Tom Szczepanski, who left, the agency
said. Mr. Poer had most recently been general manager of thewb.com, a Web site
operated by the Warner Brothers unit of Time Warner. MediaVest USA is part of
the MediaVest division of the Starcom MediaVest unit of the Publicis Groupe.

Ron Prince joined InStyle magazine, New York, part of the Time Inc. division of
Time Warner, as associate publisher for marketing. He succeeds Bill Robinson,
who left, the magazine said, to pursue other opportunities. Mr. Prince has for
the last decade run his own marketing consulting company whose clients have
included brides.com, Lucky, style.com, Teen Vogue and Us Weekly.

Michael Smith joined NeuroFocus, Berkeley, Calif., as a partner in the
consulting practice. He had been president at CorTech Labs, La Jolla, Calif.

Laura Porto Stockwell joined Wong Doody, Seattle, in a new post, senior director
for digital strategy. She had most recently been a vice president for digital
strategy and user experience at the Seattle office of Publicis USA, part of the
Publicis Worldwide division of the Publicis Groupe.

Ruth Stubbs will join Mediabrands, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies,
in a new post, president of Mediabrands Asia, based in Singapore. Her
appointment is effective July 15. The post is being created as the Asia-Pacific
operations are divided between her and Jeff Cressall, who had been president for
Mediabrands Asia-Pacific and assumes oversight of the Australasian operations.
Ms. Stubbs had been chief executive at the Interaction unit of GroupM, part of
WPP.

Time Axcess, an ad network, was introduced by the Time Inc. unit of Time Warner.
The network includes 26 Web sites like people.com and time.com.

Lynn Tornabene joined the New York office of Quattro Wireless, a mobile ad
network, as chief marketing officer. She had been head of DoubleClick
communications at the New York office of Google.

The 2009 Young Lions ''Team U.S.A.'' was selected to compete at the 56th
International Advertising Festival in Cannes. The event, known as the Cannes
Lions Festival, will be held June 21 to 27. The competitors in the print
category will be Matt Herr and Karen Land, from Goodby, Silverstein & Partners,
San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group. The cyber (interactive) category
competitors will be Liza Behles and Rachel Dolinsky, Pereira & O'Dell, San
Francisco. The film (commercials) category competitors will be Jeremy Jones and
Dustin Tamilio, Pyper Paul & Kenney, Tampa, Fla. And the media category
competitors will be Kate Hironaka and Aaron Wiggan, also from Goodby,
Silverstein.

Zip Speak, a public relations division, was opened by Zip Productions, Melville,
N.Y.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               28 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 28, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Plans Attack and Defense in Web Warfare

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, JOHN MARKOFF and THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CYBERWAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2814 words


This article was reported by David E. Sanger, John Markoff and Thom Shanker and
written by Mr. Sanger.

When American forces in Iraq wanted to lure members of Al Qaeda into a trap,
they hacked into one of the group's computers and altered information that drove
them into American gun sights.

When President George W. Bush ordered new ways to slow Iran's progress toward a
nuclear bomb last year, he approved a plan for an experimental covert program --
its results still unclear -- to bore into their computers and undermine the
project.

And the Pentagon has commissioned military contractors to develop a highly
classified replica of the Internet of the future. The goal is to simulate what
it would take for adversaries to shut down the country's power stations,
telecommunications and aviation systems, or freeze the financial markets -- in
an effort to build better defenses against such attacks, as well as a new
generation of online weapons.

Just as the invention of the atomic bomb changed warfare and deterrence 64 years
ago, a new international race has begun to develop cyberweapons and systems to
protect against them.

Thousands of daily attacks on federal and private computer systems in the United
States -- many from China and Russia, some malicious and some testing chinks in
the patchwork of American firewalls -- have prompted the Obama administration to
review American strategy.

President Obama is expected to propose a far larger defensive effort in coming
days, including an expansion of the $17 billion, five-year program that Congress
approved last year, the appointment of a White House official to coordinate the
effort, and an end to a running bureaucratic battle over who is responsible for
defending against cyberattacks.

But Mr. Obama is expected to say little or nothing about the nation's offensive
capabilities, on which the military and the nation's intelligence agencies have
been spending billions. In interviews over the past several months, a range of
military and intelligence officials, as well as outside experts, have described
a huge increase in the sophistication of American cyberwarfare capabilities.

Because so many aspects of the American effort to develop cyberweapons and
define their proper use remain classified, many of those officials declined to
speak on the record. The White House declined several requests for interviews or
to say whether Mr. Obama as a matter of policy supports or opposes the use of
American cyberweapons.

The most exotic innovations under consideration would enable a Pentagon
programmer to surreptitiously enter a computer server in Russia or China, for
example, and destroy a ''botnet'' -- a potentially destructive program that
commandeers infected machines into a vast network that can be clandestinely
controlled -- before it could be unleashed in the United States.

Or American intelligence agencies could activate malicious code that is secretly
embedded on computer chips when they are manufactured, enabling the United
States to take command of an enemy's computers by remote control over the
Internet. That, of course, is exactly the kind of attack officials fear could be
launched on American targets, often through Chinese-made chips or computer
servers.

So far, however, there are no broad authorizations for American forces to engage
in cyberwar. The invasion of the Qaeda computer in Iraq several years ago and
the covert activity in Iran were each individually authorized by Mr. Bush. When
he issued a set of classified presidential orders in January 2008 to organize
and improve America's online defenses, the administration could not agree on how
to write the authorization.

A principal architect of that order said the issue had been passed on to the
next president, in part because of the complexities of cyberwar operations that,
by necessity, would most likely be conducted on both domestic and foreign
Internet sites. After the controversy surrounding domestic spying, Mr. Bush's
aides concluded, the Bush White House did not have the credibility or the
political capital to deal with the subject.

Electronic Vulnerabilities

Cyberwar would not be as lethal as atomic war, of course, nor as visibly
dramatic. But when Mike McConnell, the former director of national intelligence,
briefed Mr. Bush on the threat in May 2007, he argued that if a single large
American bank were successfully attacked ''it would have an order-of-magnitude
greater impact on the global economy'' than the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. Mr.
McConnell, who left office three months ago, warned last year that ''the ability
to threaten the U.S. money supply is the equivalent of today's nuclear weapon.''

The scenarios developed last year for the incoming president by Mr. McConnell
and his coordinator for cybersecurity, Melissa Hathaway, went further. They
described vulnerabilities including an attack on Wall Street and one intended to
bring down the nation's electric power grid. Most were extrapolations of attacks
already tried.

Today, Ms. Hathaway is the primary author of White House cyberstrategy and has
been traveling the country talking in vague terms about recent, increasingly
bold attacks on the computer networks that keep the country running. Government
officials will not discuss the details of a recent attack on the air
transportation network, other than to say the attack never directly affected air
traffic control systems.

Still, the specter of an attack that could blind air traffic controllers and,
perhaps, the military's aerospace defense networks haunts military and
intelligence officials. (The saving grace of the air traffic control system,
officials say, is that it is so old that it is not directly connected to the
Internet.)

Studies, with code names like Dark Angel, have focused on whether cellphone
towers, emergency-service communications and hospital systems could be brought
down, to sow chaos.

But the theoretical has, at times, become real.

''We have seen Chinese network operations inside certain of our electricity
grids,'' said Joel F. Brenner, who oversees counterintelligence operations for
Dennis Blair, Mr. McConnell's successor as national intelligence director,
speaking at the University of Texas at Austin this month. ''Do I worry about
those grids, and about air traffic control systems, water supply systems, and so
on? You bet I do.''

But the broader question -- one the administration so far declines to discuss --
is whether the best defense against cyberattack is the development of a robust
capability to wage cyberwar.

As Mr. Obama's team quickly discovered, the Pentagon and the intelligence
agencies both concluded in Mr. Bush's last years in office that it would not be
enough to simply build higher firewalls and better virus detectors or to
restrict access to the federal government's own computers.

''The fortress model simply will not work for cyber,'' said one senior military
officer who has been deeply engaged in the debate for several years. ''Someone
will always get in.''

That thinking has led to a debate over whether lessons learned in the nuclear
age -- from the days of ''mutually assured destruction'' -- apply to cyberwar.

But in cyberwar, it is hard to know where to strike back, or even who the
attacker might be. Others have argued for borrowing a page from Mr. Bush's
pre-emption doctrine by going into foreign computers to destroy malicious
software before it is unleashed into the world's digital bloodstream. But that
could amount to an act of war, and many argue it is a losing game, because the
United States is more dependent on a constantly running Internet system than
many of its potential adversaries, and therefore could suffer more damage in a
counterattack.

In a report scheduled to be released Wednesday, the National Research Council
will argue that although an offensive cybercapability is an important asset for
the United States, the nation is lacking a clear strategy, and secrecy
surrounding preparations has hindered national debate, according to several
people familiar with the report.

The advent of Internet attacks -- especially those suspected of being directed
by nations, not hackers -- has given rise to a new term inside the Pentagon and
the National Security Agency: ''hybrid warfare.''

It describes a conflict in which attacks through the Internet can be launched as
a warning shot -- or to pave the way for a traditional attack.

Early hints of this new kind of warfare emerged in the confrontation between
Russia and Estonia in April 2007. Clandestine groups -- it was never determined
if they had links to the Russian government -- commandeered computers around the
globe and directed a fire hose of data at Estonia's banking system and its
government Web sites.

The computer screens of Estonians trying to do business with the government
online were frozen, if they got anything at all. It was annoying, but by the
standards of cyberwar, it was child's play.

In August 2008, when Russia invaded Georgia, the cyberattacks grew more
widespread. Georgians were denied online access to news, cash and air tickets.
The Georgian government had to move its Internet activity to servers in Ukraine
when its own servers locked up, but the attacks did no permanent damage.

Every few months, it seems, some agency, research group or military contractor
runs a war game to assess the United States' vulnerability. Senior intelligence
officials were shocked to discover how easy it was to permanently disable a
large power generator. That prompted further studies to determine if attackers
could take down a series of generators, bringing whole parts of the country to a
halt.

Another war game that the Department of Homeland Security sponsored in March
2008, called Cyber Storm II, envisioned a far larger, coordinated attack against
the United States, Britain, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. It studied a
disruption of chemical plants, rail lines, oil and gas pipelines and private
computer networks. That study and others like it concluded that when attacks go
global, the potential economic repercussions increase exponentially.

To prove the point, Mr. McConnell, then the director of national intelligence,
spent much of last summer urging senior government officials to examine the
Treasury Department's scramble to contain the effects of the collapse of Bear
Stearns. Markets froze, he said, because ''what backs up that money is
confidence -- an accounting system that is reconcilable.'' He began studies of
what would happen if the system that clears market trades froze.

''We were halfway through the study,'' one senior intelligence official said
last month, ''and the markets froze of their own accord. And we looked at each
other and said, 'Our market collapse has just given every cyberwarrior out there
a playbook.' ''

Just before Mr. Obama was elected, the Center for Strategic and International
Studies, a policy research group in Washington, warned in a report that
''America's failure to protect cyberspace is one of the most urgent national
security problems facing the new administration.''

What alarmed the panel was not the capabilities of individual hackers but of
nations -- China and Russia among them -- that experts believe are putting huge
resources into the development of cyberweapons. A research company called Team
Cymru recently examined ''scans'' that came across the Internet seeking ways to
get inside industrial control systems, and discovered more than 90 percent of
them came from computers in China.

Scanning alone does no damage, but it could be the prelude to an attack that
scrambles databases or seeks to control computers. But Team Cymru ran into a
brick wall as soon as it tried to trace who, exactly, was probing these
industrial systems. It could not determine whether military organizations,
intelligence agencies, terrorist groups, criminals or inventive teenagers were
behind the efforts.

The good news, some government officials argue, is that the Chinese are deterred
from doing real damage: Because they hold more than a trillion dollars in United
States government debt, they have little interest in freezing up a system they
depend on for their own investments.

Then again, some of the scans seemed to originate from 14 other countries,
including Taiwan, Russia and, of course, the United States.

Bikini Atoll for an Online Age

Because ''cyberwar'' contains the word ''war,'' the Pentagon has argued that it
should be the locus of American defensive and offensive strategy -- and it is
creating the kind of infrastructure that was built around nuclear weapons in the
1940s and '50s.

Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates is considering proposals to create a Cyber
Command -- initially as a new headquarters within the Strategic Command, which
controls the American nuclear arsenal and assets in space. Right now, the
responsibility for computer network security is part of Strategic Command, and
military officials there estimate that over the past six months, the government
has spent $100 million responding to probes and attacks on military systems. Air
Force officials confirm that a large network of computers at Maxwell Air Force
Base in Alabama was temporarily taken off-line within the past eight months when
it was put at risk of widespread infection from computer viruses.

But Mr. Gates has concluded that the military's cyberwarfare effort requires a
sharper focus -- and thus a specific command. It would build the defenses for
military computers and communications systems and -- the part the Pentagon is
reluctant to discuss -- develop and deploy cyberweapons.

In fact, that effort is already under way -- it is part of what the National
Cyber Range is all about. The range is a replica of the Internet of the future,
and it is being built to be attacked. Competing teams of contractors --
including BAE Systems, the Applied Physics Laboratory at Johns Hopkins
University and Sparta Inc. -- are vying to build the Pentagon a system it can
use to simulate attacks. The National Security Agency already has a smaller
version of a similar system, in Millersville, Md.

In short, the Cyber Range is to the digital age what the Bikini Atoll -- the
islands the Army vaporized in the 1950s to measure the power of the hydrogen
bomb -- was to the nuclear age. But once the tests at Bikini Atoll demonstrated
to the world the awesome destructive power of the bomb, it became evident to the
United States and the Soviet Union -- and other nuclear powers -- that the risks
of a nuclear exchange were simply too high. In the case of cyberattacks, where
the results can vary from the annoying to the devastating, there are no such
rules.

The Deterrence Conundrum

During the cold war, if a strategic missile had been fired at the United States,
screens deep in a mountain in Colorado would have lighted up and American
commanders would have some time to decide whether to launch a counterattack.
Today, when Pentagon computers are subjected to a barrage, the origin is often a
mystery. Absent certainty about the source, it is almost impossible to mount a
counterattack.

In the rare case where the preparations for an attack are detected in a foreign
computer system, there is continuing debate about whether to embrace the concept
of pre-emption, with all of its Bush-era connotations. The questions range from
whether an online attack should be mounted on that system to, in an extreme
case, blowing those computers up.

Some officials argue that if the United States engaged in such pre-emption --
and demonstrated that it was watching the development of hostile cyberweapons --
it could begin to deter some attacks. Others believe it will only justify
pre-emptive attacks on the United States. ''Russia and China have lots of
nationalistic hackers,'' one senior military officer said. ''They seem very,
very willing to take action on their own.''

Senior Pentagon and military officials also express deep concern that the laws
and understanding of armed conflict have not kept current with the challenges of
offensive cyberwarfare.

Over the decades, a number of limits on action have been accepted -- if not
always practiced. One is the prohibition against assassinating government
leaders. Another is avoiding attacks aimed at civilians. Yet in the cyberworld,
where the most vulnerable targets are civilian, there are no such rules or
understandings. If a military base is attacked, would it be a proportional,
legitimate response to bring down the attacker's power grid if that would also
shut down its hospital systems, its air traffic control system or its banking
system?

''We don't have that for cyber yet,'' one senior Defense Department official
said, ''and that's a little bit dangerous.''

Cyberwar: Computers, indispensable in peace, are becoming ever more important in
political conflicts and open warfare. This is the first article in a series on
the growing use of computing power as a weapon.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Melissa Hathaway, the White House cybersecurity coordinator,
speaking last week in San Francisco.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO JOSE SANCHEZ/ASSOCIATED
PRESS)
The Washington control room for Cyber Storm I, a simulated online attack run by
the government in 2006.(A14) GRAPHICS: Strengthening Digital Defenses: An
international race has begun to develop defenses against the growing variety and
number of online attacks, as well as to create offensive weapons.(Sources:
Department of Homeland Security
Government Accountability Office
 Australian Government)(A14)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               29 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 28, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

WHAT'S ON TODAY

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 684 words


10 P.M. (13) AT HOME IN UTOPIA In this ''Independent Lens'' documentary  Michal
Goldman and Ellen Brodsky chronicle the development of the United Workers
Cooperative Colony, one of several apartment co-ops built by garment workers in
the Bronx during the 1920s as part of the cooperative movement. The trend
included restaurants, dairies and, outside the city, recreational facilities
like Camp Nitgedeiget -- a Yiddish term translating into Camp No Worries --
where workers could vacation in the country for just a few dollars, above right.
Built on social and economic reform, the movement ultimately persuaded 24 states
to enact emergency legislation against mortgage foreclosures. Linda Lavin
narrates.

7 A.M. (NBC) TODAY Capt. Richard Phillips talks about being held hostage by
pirates.

9 A.M. (FOX) THE MORNING SHOW WITH MIKE AND JULIET Darryl Strawberry talks about
his memoir, ''Straw: Finding My Way.'' REO Speedwagon and Styx perform.

10 A.M. (ABC); 2 P.M. (55) RACHAEL RAY Ms. Ray offers a guide for dating. The
dishy handyman Carter Oosterhouse is the guest.

8 P.M. (CBS) NCIS The murder of a Marine leads Gibbs (Mark Harmon) and McGee
(Sean Murray) to the NCIS office of special projects in Los Angeles in this
prelude to a possible spinoff series. Chris O'Donnell, L L Cool J, Louise
Lombard, Peter Cambor and Daniela Ruah are guest stars.

8 P.M. (CW) REAPER The Devil (Ray Wise) sends Sam (Bret Harrison) an attractive
tutor to train him for the end times, but Sam decides to seduce her instead.

8 P.M. (NBC) THE BIGGEST LOSER It's payback time, as the five remaining
contestants train their trainers, Bob Harper and Jillian Michaels. Then the
players have to race up and down hills while toting weighted bags representing
the number of pounds they've each lost.   One player is eliminated at the
weigh-in, and the final four are sent home for 30 days before they'll return for
a final bout with the scale.

9 P.M. (BBC America) LAST RESTAURANT STANDING The final two teams must serve
five-course meals aboard the Orient Express  before Raymond Blanc announces the
winner.

9 P.M. (Discovery) DEADLIEST CATCH The crews absorb the news that the storm has
claimed one of the crab fleet's ships. Then they get back to work.

9 P.M. (Fox) FRINGE Olivia (Anna Torv), Peter (Joshua Jackson) and Walter (John
Noble) track a serial killer who is draining his victims' spinal fluid, and who
may be linked to a cell of bioterrorists.

9 P.M. (History) HOW THE EARTH WAS MADE An analysis of the dynamic volcanic
forces that shaped Iceland is followed at 10 by ''Life After People,'' which
examines how flora and fauna might react when no longer affected by humans.

9 P.M. (Sundance) ECO TRIP: THE REAL COST OF LIVING David de Rothschild (far
right, with Dosi Alvarez, a farmer) traces the production of a T-shirt from
cotton fields in the South to a trendy boutique in Manhattan. In ''Carbon
Cops,'' at 9:30, Lish Fejer and Sean Fitzgerald help an Australian family get
the heating-cooling situation in their house under control. And in ''Addicted to
Plastic,'' at 10, the filmmaker Ian Connacher investigates the long-term effects
of the most versatile material ever invented.

10 P.M. (Bravo) THE REAL HOUSEWIVES OF NEW YORK CITY Alex and Simon celebrate
the renovation of their home by hosting a house party. Ill will abounds.
Meanwhile, Bethenny goes on a blind date, and Ramona considers a tweaking.

10 P.M. (FX) RESCUE ME A smitten Lou (John Scurti) wants to cooperate with
Genevieve (Karina Lombard), but she only has eyes for Tommy (Denis Leary).

10 P.M. (NBC) LAW & ORDER: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT An irresponsible young mother
(Hilary Duff) becomes the prime suspect when a woman (Gail O'Grady) reports her
2-year-old granddaughter missing.

10 P.M. (Sci Fi) WCG ULTIMATE GAMER In this first-season finale, the three
remaining players must face off in challenges based on Gears of War 2, Soul
Calibur IV and Shaun White Snowboarding before the winner leaves with $100,000,
a Samsung electronics package and the chance to be the face of the World Cyber
Games. KATHRYN  SHATTUCK

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               30 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 30, 2009 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Panel Warns U.S. on Cyberwar Plans

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF and THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 865 words


The United States has no clear military policy about how the nation might
respond to a cyberattack on its communications, financial or power networks, a
panel of scientists and policy advisers warned Wednesday, and the country needs
to clarify both its offensive capabilities and how it would respond to such
attacks.

The report, based on a three-year study by a panel assembled by the National
Academy of Sciences, is the first major effort to look at the military use of
computer technologies as weapons. The potential use of such technologies
offensively has been widely discussed in recent years, and disruptions of
communications systems and Web sites have become a standard occurrence in both
political and military conflicts since 2000.

The report, titled ''Technology, Policy, Law, and Ethics Regarding U.S.
Acquisition and Use of Cyberattack Capabilities,'' concludes that the veil of
secrecy that has surrounded cyberwar planning is detrimental to the country's
military policy. The report's authors include Adm. William A. Owens, a former
vice chairman of the joint chiefs of staff; William O. Studeman, former deputy
director of the Central Intelligence Agency; and Walter B. Slocombe, former
under secretary of defense for policy. Scientists and cyberspecialists on the
panel included Richard L. Garwin, an I.B.M. physicist.

Admiral Owens said during a news conference in Washington on Wednesday that the
notion of ''enduring unilateral dominance in cyberspace'' by the United States
is not realistic in part because of the low cost of the technologies required to
mount attacks. He also said the idea that offensive attacks wre ''nonrisky''
military options was not correct.

In the United States, the offensive use of cyberweapons is a highly classified
military secret. There have been reports going back to the 1990s that United
States intelligence agencies have mounted operations in which electronic gear
was systematically modified to disrupt the activities of an opponent or for
surveillance purposes. But these activities have not been publicly acknowledged
by the government.

The report concludes that the United States should create a public national
policy regarding cyberattacks based on an open debate on the issues. The authors
also call on the United States to find common ground with other nations on
cyberattacks to avoid future military crises.

The authors point to a Pentagon statement on military doctrine issued in 2004,
indicating that the United States might respond to a cyberattack with the
military use of nuclear weapons in certain cases. ''For example,'' the Pentagon
National Military Strategy statement says, ''cyberattacks on U.S. commercial
information systems or attacks against transportation networks may have a
greater economic or psychological effect than a relatively small release of a
lethal agent.''

Pentagon and military officials confirmed that the United States reserved the
option to respond in any way it chooses to punish an adversary responsible for a
catastrophic cyberattack. While the range of options could include the use of
nuclear weapons, officials said, such an extreme counterattack was hardly the
most likely response.

''The United States reserves the right to respond to intrusions into government,
military and national infrastructure information systems and networks by
nations, terrorist groups or other adversaries in a manner it deems
appropriate,'' said one senior Pentagon official.

Another senior Pentagon official added, ''While the United States would always
reserve the right to respond appropriately to defend the nation and its
citizens, this kind of scenario is extremely speculative and requires an
enormously vivid imagination.''

The two officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the highly
classified nature of planning for cyber and nuclear warfare. Both officials
emphasized that in American military planning, there are only rare instances
when any specific option would be declared off-limits in advance.

This effort to specifically project a lack of clarity is viewed as important to
keeping an adversary uncertain of the severity of an American counterattack.
Introducing that uncertainty into the thinking of an adversary's government and
military has historically been an essential element of deterrence, whether
traditional nuclear deterrence or today's cyberwar planning.

For example, during the cold war, when the Soviet Union and its Warsaw Pact
allies stationed an overwhelming conventional force in Central Europe, American
planners were never certain that NATO's tanks and artillery could hold back the
Soviet-led armor if an offensive was begun across the Fulda Gap in Germany.

Thus, the United States never declared that it would be bound to respond to a
Soviet and Warsaw Pact conventional invasion with only American and NATO
conventional forces. The fear of escalating to a nuclear conflict was viewed as
a pillar of stability and is credited with helping deter the larger Soviet-led
conventional force throughout the cold war.

Introducing the possibility of a nuclear response to a catastrophic cyberattack
would be expected to serve the same purpose.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               31 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 1, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

With New Software, Iranians And Others Outwit Net Censors

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; CYBERWAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1812 words


The Iranian government, more than almost any other, censors what citizens can
read online, using elaborate technology to block millions of Web sites offering
news, commentary, videos, music and, until recently, Facebook and YouTube.
Search for ''women'' in Persian and you're told, ''Dear Subscriber, access to
this site is not possible.''

Last July, on popular sites that offer free downloads of various software, an
escape hatch appeared. The computer program allowed Iranian Internet users to
evade government censorship.

College students discovered the key first, then spread it through e-mail
messages and file-sharing. By late autumn more than 400,000 Iranians were
surfing the uncensored Web.

The software was created not by Iranians, but by Chinese computer experts
volunteering for the Falun Gong, a spiritual movement that has beem suppressed
by the Chinese government since 1999. They maintain a series of computers in
data centers around the world to route Web users' requests around censors'
firewalls.

The Internet is no longer just an essential channel for commerce, entertainment
and information. It has also become a stage for state control -- and rebellion
against it. Computers are becoming more crucial in global conflicts, not only in
spying and military action, but also in determining what information reaches
people around the globe.

More than 20 countries now use increasingly sophisticated blocking and filtering
systems for Internet content, according to Reporters Without Borders, a
Paris-based group that encourages freedom of the press.

Although the most aggressive filtering systems have been erected by
authoritarian governments like those in Iran, China, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and
Syria, some Western democracies are also beginning to filter some content,
including child pornography and other sexually oriented material.

In response, a disparate alliance of political and religious activists, civil
libertarians, Internet entrepreneurs, diplomats and even military officers and
intelligence agents are now challenging growing Internet censorship.

The creators of the software seized upon by Iranians are members of the Global
Internet Freedom Consortium, based largely in the United States and closely
affiliated with Falun Gong. The consortium is one of many small groups
developing systems to make it possible for anyone to reach the open Internet. It
is the modern equivalent of efforts by organizations like the Voice of America
to reach the citizens of closed countries.

Separately, the Tor Project, a nonprofit group of anticensorship activists,
freely offers software that can be used to send messages secretly or to reach
blocked Web sites. Its software, first developed at the United States Naval
Research Laboratories, is now used by more than 300,000 people globally, from
the police to criminals, as well as diplomats and spies.

Political scientists at the University of Toronto have built yet another system,
called Psiphon, that allows anyone to evade national Internet firewalls using
only a Web browser. Sensing a business opportunity, they have created a company
to profit by making it possible for media companies to deliver digital content
to Web users behind national firewalls.

The danger in this quiet electronic war is driven home by a stark warning on the
group's Web site: ''Bypassing censorship may violate law. Serious thought should
be given to the risks involved and potential consequences.''

In this cat-and-mouse game, the cat is fighting back. The Chinese system, which
opponents call the Great Firewall of China, is built in part with Western
technologies. A study published in February by Rebecca MacKinnon, who teaches
journalism at the University of Hong Kong, determined that much blog censorship
is performed not by the government but by private Internet service providers,
including companies like Yahoo China, Microsoft and MySpace. One-third to more
than half of all postings made to three Chinese Internet service providers were
not published or were censored, she reported.

When the Falun Gong tried to support its service with advertising several years
ago, American companies backed out under pressure from the Chinese government,
members said.

In addition, the Chinese government now employs more than 40,000 people as
censors at dozens of regional centers, and hundreds of thousands of students are
paid to flood the Internet with government messages and crowd out dissenters.

This is not to say that China blocks access to most Internet sites; most of the
material on the global Internet is available to Chinese without censorship. The
government's censors mostly censor groups deemed to be state enemies, like the
Falun Gong, making it harder for them to reach potential members.

Blocking such groups has become more insidious as Internet filtering technology
has grown more sophisticated. As with George Orwell's ''Newspeak,'' the language
in ''1984'' that got smaller each year, governments can block particular words
or phrases without users realizing their Internet searches are being censored.

Those who back the ragtag opponents of censorship criticize the government-run
systems as the digital equivalent of the Berlin Wall.

They also see the anticensorship efforts as a powerful political lever. ''What
is our leverage toward a country like Iran? Very little,'' said Michael
Horowitz, a fellow at the Hudson Institute who advises the Global Internet
Freedom Consortium. ''Suppose we have the capacity to make it possible for the
president of the United States at will to communicate with hundreds of thousands
of Iranians at no risk or limited risk? It just changes the world.''

The United States government and the Voice of America have financed some
circumvention technology efforts. But until now the Falun Gong has devoted the
most resources, experts said, erecting a system that allows the largest number
of Internet users open, uncensored access.

Each week, Chinese Internet users receive 10 million e-mail messages and 70
million instant messages from the consortium. But unlike spam that takes you to
Nigerian banking scams or offers deals on drugs like Viagra, these messages
offer software to bypass the elaborate government system that blocks access to
the Web sites of opposition groups like the Falun Gong.

Shiyu Zhou, a computer scientist, is a founder of the Falun Gong's consortium.
His cyber-war with China began in Tiananmen Square in 1989. A college student
and the son of a former general in the intelligence section of the People's
Liberation Army, he said he first understood the power of government-controlled
media when overnight the nation's student protesters were transformed from
heroes to killers.

''I was so disappointed,'' he said. ''People believed the government, they
didn't believe us.''

He decided to leave China and study computer science in graduate school in the
United States. In the late 1990s he turned to the study of Falun Gong and then
joined with a small group of technically sophisticated members of the spiritual
group intent on transmitting millions of e-mail messages to Chinese.

Both he and Peter Yuan Li, another early consortium volunteer, had attended
Tsinghua University -- China's Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Mr. Li,
the son of farmers, also came to the United States to study computer science,
then joined Bell Laboratories before becoming a full-time volunteer.

The risks of building circumvention tools became clear in April 2006 when, Mr.
Li later told law enforcement officials, four men invaded his home in suburban
Atlanta, covered his head, beat him, searched his files and stole two laptop
computers. The F.B.I. has made no arrests in the case and declined to comment.
But Mr. Li thinks China sent the invaders.

Early on, the group of dissidents here had some financial backing from the
International Broadcasting Bureau of the Voice of America for sending e-mail
messages, but the group insists that most of its effort has been based on
volunteer labor and contributions.

The consortium's circumvention system works this way: Government censorship
systems like the Great Firewall can block access to certain Internet Protocol
addresses. The equivalent of phone numbers, these addresses are quartets of
numbers like 209.85.171.100 that identify a Web site, in this case, google.com.
By clicking on a link provided in the consortium's e-mail message, someone in
China or Iran trying to reach a forbidden Web site can download software that
connects to a computer abroad that then redirects the request to the site's
forbidden address.

The technique works like a basketball bank shot -- with the remote computer as
the backboard and the desired Web site as the basket. But government systems
hunt for and then shut off such alternative routes using a variety of
increasingly sophisticated techniques. So the software keeps changing the
Internet address of the remote computer -- more than once a second. By the time
the censors identify an address, the system has already changed it.

China acknowledges that it monitors content on the Internet, but claims to have
an agenda much like that of any other country: policing for harmful material,
pornography, treasonous propaganda, criminal activity, fraud. The government
says Falun Gong is a dangerous cult that has ruined the lives of thousands of
people.

Hoping to step up its circumvention efforts, the Falun Gong last year organized
extensive lobbying in Congress, which approved $15 million for circumvention
services.

But the money was awarded not to the Falun Gong consortium but to Internews, an
international organization that supports local media groups.

This year, a broader coalition is organizing to push for more Congressional
financing of anti-filtering efforts. Negotiations are under way to bring
together dissidents of Vietnam, Iran, the Uighur minority of China, Tibet,
Myanmar, Cuba, Cambodia, Laos, as well as the Falun Gong, to lobby Congress for
the financing.

Mr. Horowitz argues that $25 million could expand peak usage to as many as 45
million daily Internet users, allowing the systems to reach as many as 10
percent of the Web users in both China and Iran.

Mr. Zhou says his group's financing is money well spent. ''The entire battle
over the Internet has boiled down to a battle over resources,'' he said. ''For
every dollar we spend, China has to spend a hundred, maybe hundreds of
dollars.''

As for the Falun Gong software, it proved a little too popular among Iranians.
By the end of last year the consortium's computers were overwhelmed. On Jan. 1,
the consortium had to do some blocking of its own: It shut down the service for
all countries except China.

Cyberwar: Computers, indispensable in peace, are becoming ever more important in
political conflicts and open warfare. This is the second article in a series on
the growing use of computer power as a weapon.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shiyu Zhou is a founder of the Falun Gong consortium that
maintains a series of computers in data centers around the world to route Web
users' requests around censors' firewalls.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW
YORK TIMES)(A3)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               32 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 21, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Print Reporter Versus Web, and Sinister Webmaster

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 991 words


THE SCARECROW

By Michael Connelly

419 pages. Little, Brown & Company. $27.99.

''The Scarecrow'' involves the serial killing of women who are abducted,
violently assaulted, asphyxiated and then stuffed in car trunks. The perpetrator
of these acts is a kinky beast even by the standards of novels about serial sex
crimes. But the trunk murders aren't the scary part of Michael Connelly's new
story.

These killings are just business as usual for a crime writer as seasoned as Mr.
Connelly. They seem almost humdrum in comparison with the larger fears that
''The Scarecrow'' summons. This book's main character is the newspaper reporter
Jack McEvoy, who was at his professional prime when he triumphed over evil in
''The Poet'' (1996). At that point Jack was a reporter for The Rocky Mountain
News. The death of that newspaper and the slow collapse of The Los Angeles
Times, where Jack has now spent seven years, create an unusually ominous
backdrop.

And in ''The Scarecrow,'' as in ''The Poet,'' the insidious powers of computer
technology are part of the overall menace. This time the source of evil cyber
-mayhem is the Farm, an underground desert bunker that Mr. Connelly makes
frighteningly plausible. The sci-fi phantoms that once sprung from the
imagination of Michael Crichton have become realities in this tale of spying,
trolling, hacking, identity theft and other spookily disembodied privacy
violations.

Jack is one of the revolving Connelly antiheroes who have consciences, ex-wives
and authority issues. They form a spectrum of irreverence: Mickey Haller, a k a
the Lincoln Lawyer, works out of a car and thumbs his nose at the legal
establishment. Harry Bosch, brooding detective, has a rebellious attitude toward
the Los Angeles Police Department. Jack's love of journalism makes him more of a
team player. But when he is laid off by The Los Angeles Times at the start of
''The Scarecrow,'' Jack turns indignant. He spends the rest of the book tracking
down the Scarecrow through good, hard reportorial legwork and lamenting the way
that such work is becoming obsolete.

Two weeks' notice: that's what Jack, ''an over-40 cop-shop reporter,'' is given
as the book begins. But he has one last matter to investigate. His name is on a
story about a teenage drug dealer who has made a confession to the police that
led to his being held on a murder charge. With the thoroughness and tenacity
that make Mr. Connelly's characters so likable, Jack gumshoes his way to the
bottom of this allegation and finds that the kid confessed only to stealing the
dead woman's car. And here's a nice touch: Jack's realization that this
gangbanger isn't a killer doesn't make the kid a victim. When the case attracts
news interest, and the suspect is about to be interviewed by CNN, Jack gets him
yanked off the air, pointing out that CNN's ability to bleep is no match for the
kid's ability to spew obscenities.

Cross-cut to this book's true nerve center: the Farm, where the malevolent
figure of the title presides over an empire of data-storage equipment. His name
is Wesley Carver, and he is supposed to be a threat engineer specializing in
data collocation; in other words, this place backs up and guards the security of
corporate records. Given free rein over the vast amounts of equipment at the
Farm, Carver has indulged all sorts of hobbies without his boss's knowledge.

He can spy on fellow employees. He can move anonymously through chat rooms in
search of victims who meet his precise physical specifications. And he can
really mess with Jack McEvoy once his system of traps reveals that The Times has
been conducting computer searches trying to ferret out creepy, fetishistic trunk
killers like the Scarecrow himself.

''The Scarecrow,'' a return to form for Mr. Connelly and his sharpest book since
''The Lincoln Lawyer,'' pivots energetically among its subplots, often returning
affectionately to the newspaper world. Jack, the shaggy veteran, has been given
a pretty young female protege (much as Russell Crowe has in the current film
''State of Play'') who represents everything that's wrong with newfangled
journalistic practices. Her name is Angela Cook, and she is what Jack calls a
mojo, ''a mobile journalist nimbly able to file from the field by any electronic
means.'' As Jack says mournfully about her approach: ''It was about filing
stories on your phone instead of using it to call rewrite. The morning paper
might as well be called The Daily Afterthought. Everything in it was posted on
the Web the night before.''

Happily for ''The Scarecrow'' some things never go out of style. Those include
collegial back-stabbing, which is another of Angela's talents, and the eagerness
of news sources to hoodwink the press. While the book briefly wonders what would
happen in a world of gullible newbie journalists, it spends most of its time
demonstrating how Jack gets the job done right.

He is accompanied by the F.B.I. agent Rachel Walling, an old flame and one of
Mr. Connelly's long list of celebrity guest characters. ''The Scarecrow''
follows a yellow brick road from The Times to the Farm to wherever Jack and
Rachel are rekindling their romance.

''The Scarecrow'' begins its crime plot routinely, with more emphasis on the
press than on the investigation. Then it gets jacked up to a high level of
suspense by the Scarecrow's sinister powers in the Internet's darker reaches.
And then it turns back into something familiar, as Mr. Connelly allows the
long-range demands of his career to diminish this particular book's ending.

The denouement is left incomplete so that this story can be revisited. And the
last chapters aren't treated as a sufficient closing. ''The Scarecrow'' ends
with the opening pages of Mr. Connelly's next book, ''Nine Dragons,'' starring
Harry Bosch and scheduled to arrive a mere five months from now. It's
tantalizing to imagine what Mr. Connelly might accomplish if he ever took his
time.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Connelly (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT AZMITIA) (pg.C7)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               33 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Lays Out His Strategy on Cyberattacks

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and JOHN MARKOFF; Thom Shanker contributed reporting
from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 872 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Obama declared Friday  that the country's disparate efforts to
''deter, prevent, detect and defend'' against cyberattacks would now be run out
of the White House, but he also promised that he would bar the federal
government from regular monitoring of ''private-sector networks'' and the
Internet traffic that has become the backbone of American communications.

Mr. Obama's speech, which was accompanied by the release of a long-awaited new
government strategy, was an effort to balance the United States' response to a
rising security threat with concerns -- echoing back to the debates on
wiretapping without warrants in the Bush years -- that the government would be
regularly dipping into Internet traffic that knew no national boundaries.

One element of the strategy clearly differed from that established by the Bush
administration in January 2008. Mr. Obama's approach is described in a 38-page
public document being distributed to the public and to companies that are most
vulnerable to cyberattack; Mr. Bush's strategy was entirely classified.

But Mr. Obama's policy review was not specific about how he would turn many of
the goals into practical realities, and he said nothing about resolving the
running turf wars among the Pentagon, the National Security Agency, the Homeland
Security Department and other agencies over the conduct of defensive and
offensive cyberoperations.

The White House approach appears to place a new ''cybersecurity coordinator''
over all of those agencies. Mr. Obama did not name the coordinator Friday, but
the policy review said that whoever the president selects would be ''action
officer'' inside the White House during cyberattacks, whether they were launched
on the United States by hackers or governments.

In an effort to silence critics who have complained that the official will not
have sufficient status to cut through the maze of competing federal agencies,
Mr. Obama said the new coordinator would have ''regular access to me,'' much
like the coordinator for nuclear and conventional threats.

Many computer security executives had been hoping that Mr. Obama's announcement
would represent a turning point in the nation's unsuccessful effort to turn back
a growing cybercrime epidemic. On Friday, several said that while the
president's attention sounded promising, much would depend on whom he chose to
fill the role.

James A. Lewis, a director at the Center for Strategic & International Studies,
a Washington group that published a bipartisan report last year calling on the
president to appoint a cyberczar, said that the White House had now narrowed the
list of candidates for the position to fewer than 10, but that choosing the
right person would be difficult.

''There aren't a lot of people who have the policy and the strategy skills and
the technological knowledge to carry this out,'' Mr. Lewis said. ''If you're
talking about missiles and space, there are a lot of people who know policy and
technology, but in cyber its such a new field we're talking about a really small
gene pool.''

For the first time, Mr. Obama also spoke of his own brush with cyberattacks, in
the presidential campaign. ''Between August and October, hackers gained access
to e-mails and a range of campaign files, from policy position papers to travel
plans,'' he said, describing events that were known, though sketchily, at the
time.

''It was,'' he said, ''a powerful reminder: in this information age, one of your
greatest strengths -- in our case, our ability to communicate to a wide range of
supporters through the Internet -- could also be one of your greatest
vulnerabilities.''

Mr. Obama's speech delved into technology rarely discussed in the East Room of
the White House. He referred to ''spyware and malware and spoofing and phishing
and botnets,'' all different approaches to what he called ''weapons of mass
disruption.''

Although the president did not discuss details of the expanding role for the
military in offensive and pre-emptive cyberoperations, senior officials said
Friday that the Pentagon planned to create a new cybercommand to organize and
train for digital war, and to oversee offensive and defensive operations.

A lingering disagreement has been how to coordinate that new command with the
work of the National Security Agency, home to most of the government's expertise
on computer and network warfare. One plan now under discussion would put the
same general in charge of both the new cybercommand and the N.S.A. Currently,
the security agency's director is Lt. Gen. Keith B. Alexander, who would be
expected to be the leading contender for the new, dual position.

Industry executives were generally supportive of the initiative Mr. Obama
announced, but also cautious.

''There was nothing I was disappointed in,'' said Mark Gerencser, a
cybersecurity executive at Booz Allen Hamilton, a consulting firm that deals
extensively in the government's cybersecurity strategy.

Mr. Hamilton noted that the United States had separated defense and offense in
the cybersecurity arena, while its opponents, including Russia and China, had a
more fluid strategy.

''It's like we're playing football and our adversaries are playing soccer,'' he
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 3, 2009



CORRECTION: Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about a new
government plan to fight cyberattacks gave an incorrect attribution for a
statement about the differences between the strategy of the United States and
that of other countries, including Russia and China. It was Mark  Gerencser, a
cybersecurity executive, who noted that the United States had separated defense
and offense in the cybersecurity arena, while other countries had a more fluid
strategy. The statement was not by ''Mr. Hamilton.'' (Mr. Gerencser is an
executive with Booz Allen Hamilton, a consulting firm that deals extensively in
the government's cybersecurity strategy.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama announced measures to make the Internet secure
while still respecting privacy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               34 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 31, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Contractors Vie For Plum Work, Hacking for U.S.

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW and JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CYBERWAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

DATELINE: MELBOURNE, Fla.


The government's urgent push into cyberwarfare has set off a rush among the
biggest military companies for billions of dollars in new defense contracts.

The exotic nature of the work, coupled with the deep  recession, is enabling the
companies to attract top young talent that once would have gone to Silicon
Valley. And the race to develop weapons that defend against, or initiate,
computer attacks has given rise to thousands of ''hacker soldiers'' within the
Pentagon who can blend the new capabilities into the nation's war planning.

Nearly all of the largest military companies -- including Northrop Grumman,
General Dynamics, Lockheed Martin and Raytheon -- have major cyber contracts
with the military and intelligence agencies.

The companies have been moving quickly to lock up the relatively small number of
experts with the training and creativity to block the attacks and design
countermeasures. They have been buying smaller firms, financing academic
research and running advertisements for ''cyberninjas'' at a time when other
industries are shedding workers.

The changes are manifesting themselves in highly classified laboratories, where
computer geeks in their 20s like to joke that they are hackers with security
clearances.

At a Raytheon facility here south of the Kennedy Space Center, a hub of
innovation in an earlier era, rock music blares and empty cans of Mountain Dew
pile up as engineers create tools to protect the Pentagon's computers and crack
into the networks of countries that could become adversaries. Prizes like
cappuccino machines and stacks of cash spur them on, and a gong heralds each
major breakthrough.

The young engineers represent the new face of a war that President Obama
described Friday as ''one of the most serious economic and national security
challenges we face as a nation.'' The president said he would appoint a senior
White House official to oversee the nation's cybersecurity strategies.

Computer experts say the government is behind the curve in sealing off its
networks from threats that are growing more persistent and sophisticated, with
thousands of intrusions each day from organized criminals and legions of hackers
for nations including Russia and China.

''Everybody's attacking everybody,'' said Scott Chase, a 30-year-old computer
engineer who helps run the Raytheon unit here.

Mr. Chase, who wears his hair in a ponytail, and Terry Gillette, a 53-year-old
former rocket engineer, ran SI Government Solutions before selling the company
to Raytheon last year as the boom in the military's cyberoperations accelerated.

The operation -- tucked into several unmarked buildings behind an insurance
office and a dentist's office -- is doing some of the most cutting-edge work,
both in identifying weaknesses in Pentagon networks and in creating weapons for
potential attacks.

Daniel D. Allen, who oversees work on intelligence systems for Northrop Grumman,
estimated that federal spending on computer security now totals $10 billion each
year, including classified programs. That is just a fraction of the government's
spending on weapons systems. But industry officials expect it to rise rapidly.

The military contractors are now in the enviable position of turning what they
learned out of necessity -- protecting the sensitive Pentagon data that sits on
their own computers -- into a lucrative business that could replace some of the
revenue lost from cancellations of conventional weapons systems.

Executives at Lockheed Martin, which has long been the government's largest
information-technology contractor, also see the demand for greater computer
security spreading to energy and health care agencies and the rest of the
nation's critical infrastructure. But for now, most companies remain focused on
the national-security arena, where the hottest efforts involve anticipating how
an enemy might attack and developing the resources to strike back.

Though even the existence of research on cyberweapons was once highly
classified, the Air Force plans this year to award the first publicly announced
contract for developing tools to break into enemy computers. The companies are
also teaming up to build a National Cyber Range, a model of the Internet for
testing advanced techniques.

Military experts said Northrop Grumman and General Dynamics, which have long
been major players in the Pentagon's security efforts, are leading the push into
offensive cyberwarfare, along with the Raytheon unit. This involves finding
vulnerabilities in other countries' computer systems and developing software
tools to exploit them, either to steal sensitive information or disable the
networks.

Mr. Chase and Mr. Gillette said the Raytheon unit, which has about 100
employees, grew out of a company they started with friends at Florida Institute
of Technology that concentrated on helping software makers find flaws in their
own products. Over the last several years, their focus shifted to the military
and intelligence agencies, which wanted to use their analytic tools to detect
vulnerabilities and intrusions previously unnoticed.

Like other contractors, the Raytheon teams set up ''honey pots,'' the equivalent
of sting operations, to lure hackers into digital cul-de-sacs that mimic
Pentagon Web sites. They then capture the attackers' codes and create defenses
for them.

And since most of the world's computers run on the Windows or the Linux systems,
their work has also provided a growing window into how to attack foreign
networks in any cyberwar.

''It takes a nonconformist to excel at what we do,'' said Mr. Gillette, a tanned
surfing aficionado who looks like a 1950s hipster in his T-shirts with rolled-up
sleeves.

The company, which would allow interviews with other employees only on the
condition that their last names not be used because of security concerns, hired
one of its top young workers, Dustin, after he won two major hacking contests
and dropped out of college. ''I always approach it like a game, and it's been
fun,'' said Dustin, now 22.

Another engineer, known as Jolly, joined Raytheon in April after earning a
master's degree in computer security at DePaul University in Chicago. ''You
think defense contractors, and you think bureaucracy, and not necessarily a lot
of interesting and challenging projects,'' he said.

The Pentagon's interest in cyberwarfare has reached ''religious intensity,''
said Daniel T. Kuehl, a military historian at the National Defense University.
And the changes carry through to soldiers being trained to defend and attack
computer and wireless networks out on the battlefield.

That shift can be seen in the remaking of organizations like the Association of
Old Crows, a professional group that includes contractors and military
personnel.

The Old Crows have deep roots in what has long been known as electronic warfare
-- the use of radar and radio technologies for jamming and deception.

But the financing for electronic warfare had slowed recently, prompting the Old
Crows to set up a broader information-operations branch last year and establish
a new trade journal to focus on cyberwarfare.

The career of Joel Harding, the director of the group's Information Operations
Institute, exemplifies the increasing role that computing and the Internet are
playing in the military.

A 20-year veteran of military intelligence, Mr. Harding shifted in 1996 into one
of the earliest commands that studied government-sponsored computer hacker
programs. After leaving the military, he took a job as an analyst at SAIC, a
large contractor developing computer applications for military and intelligence
agencies.

Mr. Harding estimates that there are now 3,000 to 5,000 information operations
specialists in the military and 50,000 to 70,000 soldiers involved in general
computer operations. Adding specialists in electronic warfare, deception and
other areas could bring the total number of information operations personnel to
as many as 88,700, he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Terry Gillette, left, and Scott Chase run a Raytheon unit that
finds flaws in Pentagon computers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGG MATTHEWS FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (pg.A4)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               35 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 13, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Privacy May Be a Victim in Cyberdefense Plan

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1180 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A plan to create a new Pentagon cybercommand is raising significant privacy and
diplomatic concerns, as the Obama administration moves ahead on efforts to
protect the nation from cyberattack and to prepare for possible offensive
operations against adversaries' computer networks.

President Obama has said that the new cyberdefense strategy he unveiled last
month will provide protections for personal privacy and civil liberties. But
senior Pentagon and military officials say that Mr. Obama's assurances may be
challenging to guarantee in practice, particularly in trying to monitor the
thousands of daily attacks on security systems in the United States that have
set off a race to develop better cyberweapons.

Much of the new military command's work is expected to be carried out by the
National Security Agency, whose role in intercepting the domestic end of
international calls and e-mail messages after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, under
secret orders issued by the Bush administration, has already generated intense
controversy.

There is simply no way, the officials say, to effectively conduct computer
operations without entering networks inside the United States, where the
military is prohibited from operating, or traveling electronic paths through
countries that are not themselves American targets.

The cybersecurity effort, Mr. Obama said at the White House last month, ''will
not -- I repeat, will not -- include monitoring private sector networks or
Internet traffic.''

But foreign adversaries often mount their attacks through computer network hubs
inside the United States, and military officials and outside experts say that
threat confronts the Pentagon and the administration with difficult questions.

Military officials say there may be a need to intercept and examine some e-mail
messages sent from other countries to guard against computer viruses or
potential terrorist action. Advocates say the process could ultimately be
accepted as the digital equivalent of customs inspections, in which passengers
arriving from overseas consent to have their luggage opened for security, tax
and health reasons.

''The government is in a quandary,'' said Maren Leed, a defense expert at the
bipartisan Center for Strategic and International Studies who was a Pentagon
special assistant on cyberoperations from 2005 to 2008.

Ms. Leed said a broad debate was needed ''about what constitutes an intrusion
that violates privacy and, at the other extreme, what is an intrusion that may
be acceptable in the face of an act of war.''

In a recent speech, Gen. James E. Cartwright, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff and a chief architect of the new cyberstrategy, acknowledged that a
major unresolved issue was how the military -- which would include the National
Security Agency, where much of the cyberwar expertise resides -- could legally
set up an early warning system.

Unlike a missile attack, which would show up on the Pentagon's screens long
before reaching American territory, a cyberattack may be visible only after it
has been launched in the United States.

''How do you understand sovereignty in the cyberdomain?'' General Cartwright
asked. ''It doesn't tend to pay a lot of attention to geographic boundaries.''

For example, the daily attacks on the Pentagon's own computer systems, or probes
sent from Russia, China and Eastern Europe seeking chinks in the computer
systems of corporations and financial institutions, are rarely seen before their
effect is felt inside the United States.

Some administration officials have begun to discuss whether laws or regulations
must be changed to allow law enforcement, the military or intelligence agencies
greater access to networks or Internet providers when significant evidence of a
national security threat was found.

Ms. Leed said that while the Defense Department and related intelligence
agencies were the only organizations that had the ability to protect against
such cyberattacks, ''they are not the best suited, from a civil liberties
perspective, to take on that responsibility.''

Under plans being completed at the Pentagon, the new cybercommand will be run by
a four-star general, much the way Gen. David H. Petraeus runs the wars in
Afghanistan and Iraq from Central Command in Tampa, Fla. But the expectation is
that whoever is in charge of the new command will also direct the National
Security Agency, an effort to solve the turf war between the spy agency and the
military over who is in charge of conducting offensive operations.

While the N.S.A.'s job is chiefly one of detection and monitoring, the agency
also possesses what Michael D. McConnell, the former director of national
intelligence, called ''the critical skill set'' to respond quickly to
cyberattacks. Yet the Defense Department views cyberspace as its domain as well,
a new battleground after land, sea, air and space.

The complications are not limited to privacy concerns. The Pentagon is
increasingly worried about the diplomatic ramifications of being forced to use
the computer networks of many other nations while carrying out digital missions
-- the computer equivalent of the Vietnam War's spilling over the Cambodian
border in the 1960s. To battle Russian hackers, for example, it might be
necessary to act through the virtual cyberterritory of Britain or Germany or any
country where the attack was routed.

General Cartwright said military planners were trying to write rules of
engagement for scenarios in which a cyberattack was launched from a neutral
country that might have no idea what was going on. But, with time of the
essence, it may not be possible, the scenarios show, to ask other nations to act
against an attack that is flowing through their computers in milliseconds.

''If I pass through your country, do I have to talk to the ambassador?'' General
Cartwright said. ''It is very difficult. Those are the questions that are now
really starting to emerge vis-a-vis cyber.''

Frida Berrigan, a longtime peace activist who is a senior program associate at
the New America Foundation's arms and security initiative, expressed concerns
about whether the Obama administration would be able to balance its promise to
respect privacy in cyberspace even as it appeared to be militarizing
cybersecurity.

''Obama was very deliberate in saying that the U.S. military and the U.S.
government would not be looking at our e-mail and not tracking what we do
online,'' Ms. Berrigan said. ''This is not to say there is not a cyberthreat out
there or that cyberterrorism is not a significant concern. We should be vigilant
and creative. But once again we see the Pentagon being put at the heart of it
and at front lines of offering a solution.''

Ms. Berrigan said that just as the counterinsurgency wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan had proved that ''there is no front line anymore, and no
demilitarized zone anymore, then if the Pentagon and the military services see
cyberspace as a battlefield domain, then the lines protecting privacy and our
civil liberties get blurred very, very quickly.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               36 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 16, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Social Networks Spread Iranian Defiance Online

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE and NOAM COHEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 939 words


As the embattled government of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad appears to be
trying to limit Internet access and communications in Iran, new kinds of social
media are challenging those traditional levers of state media control and
allowing Iranians to find novel ways around the restrictions.

Iranians are blogging, posting to Facebook and, most visibly, coordinating their
protests on Twitter, the messaging service. Their activity has increased, not
decreased, since the presidential election on Friday and ensuing attempts by the
government to restrict or censor their online communications.

On Twitter, reports and links to photos from a peaceful mass march through
Tehran on Monday, along with accounts of street fighting and casualties around
the country, have become the most popular topic on the service worldwide,
according to Twitter's published statistics.

A couple of Twitter feeds have become virtual media offices for the supporters
of the leading opposition candidate, Mir Hussein Moussavi. One feed, mousavi1388
(1388 is the year in the Persian calendar), is filled with news of protests and
exhortations to keep up the fight, in Persian and in English. It has more than
7,000 followers.

Mr. Moussavi's fan group on Facebook has swelled to over 50,000 members, a
significant increase since election day.

Labeling such seemingly spontaneous antigovernment demonstrations a ''Twitter
Revolution'' has already become something of a cliche. That title had been given
to the protests in Moldova in April.

But Twitter is aware of the power of its service. Acknowledging its role on the
global stage, the San Francisco-based company said Monday that it was delaying a
planned shutdown for maintenance for a day, citing ''the role Twitter is
currently playing as an important communication tool in Iran.''

Twitter users are posting messages, known as tweets, with the term
#IranElection, which allows users to search for all tweets on the subject. On
Monday evening, Twitter was registering about 30 new posts a minute with that
tag.

One read, ''We have no national press coverage in Iran, everyone should help
spread Moussavi's message. One Person = One Broadcaster. #IranElection.''

The Twitter feed StopAhmadi calls itself the ''Dedicated Twitter account for
Moussavi supporters'' and has more than 6,000 followers. It links to a page on
the photo-hosting site Flickr that includes dozens of pictures from the  rally
on Monday in Tehran.

The feed Persiankiwi, which has more than 15,000 followers, sends users to a
page in Persian that is hosted by Google and, in its only English text, says,
''Due to widespread filters in Iran, please view this site to receive the latest
news, letters and communications from Mir Hussein Moussavi.''

Some Twitter users were also going on the offensive. On Monday morning, an
antigovernment activist using the Twitter account ''DDOSIran'' asked supporters
to visit a Web site to participate in an online attack to try to crash
government Web sites by overwhelming them with traffic.

By Monday afternoon, many of those sites were not accessible, though it was not
clear if the attack was responsible -- and the Twitter account behind the attack
had been removed. A Twitter spokeswoman said the company had no connection to
the deletion of the account.

The crackdown on communications began on election day, when text-messaging
services were shut down in what opposition supporters said was an attempt to
block one of their most important organizing tools. Over the weekend, cellphone
transmissions and access to Facebook and some other Web sites were also blocked.

Iranians continued to report on Monday that they could not send text messages.

But it appears they are finding ways around Big Brother.

Many Twitter users have been sharing ways to evade government snooping, such as
programming their Web browsers to contact a proxy -- or an Internet server that
relays their connection through another country.

Austin Heap, a 25-year-old information technology consultant in San Francisco,
is running his own private proxies to help Iranians, and is advertising them on
Twitter. He said on Monday that his servers were providing the Internet
connections for about 750 Iranians at any one moment.

''I think that cyber activism can be a way to empower people living under less
than democratic governments around the world,'' he said.

Global Internet Freedom Consortium, an Internet proxy service with ties to the
banned Chinese spiritual movement Falun Gong, offers downloadable software to
help evade censorship. It said its traffic from Iran had tripled in the last
week.

Shiyu Zhou, founder of the organization, has no idea how links to the software
spread within Iran. ''In China we have sent mass e-mails, but nothing like in
Iran,'' he said. ''The Iranian people actually found out by themselves and have
passed this on by word of mouth.''

Jonathan Zittrain, a professor at Harvard Law School who is an expert on the
Internet, said that Twitter was particularly resilient to censorship because it
had so many ways  for its posts to originate -- from a phone, a Web browser or
specialized applications -- and so many outlets for those posts to appear.

As each new home for this material becomes a new target for censorship, he said,
a repressive system faces a game of whack-a-mole in blocking Internet address
after Internet address carrying the subversive material.

''It is easy for Twitter feeds to be echoed everywhere else in the world,''  Mr.
Zittrain said. ''The qualities that make Twitter seem  inane and half-baked are
what make it so powerful.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hundreds of thousands of Iranians marching in support for the
presidential opposition candidate Mir Hussein Moussavi. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEWSHA
TAVAKOLIAN/POLARIS, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               37 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 24, 2009 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

New Military Command for Cyberspace

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 371 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates on Tuesday ordered the creation of the
military's first headquarters designed to coordinate Pentagon efforts in the
emerging battlefield of cyberspace and computer-network security, officials
said.

Pentagon officials said Mr. Gates intends to nominate Lt. Gen. Keith Alexander,
currently director of the National Security Agency, for a fourth star and to
take on the top job at the new organization, to be called Cybercom.

The new command's mission will be to coordinate the day-to-day operation -- and
protection -- of military and Pentagon computer networks. Currently, the Defense
Department operates 15,000 separate computer networks and more than seven
million individual computers or information-technology devices, officials said.

The Obama administration has undertaken significant efforts to protect the
nation from cyberattack and prepare for potential offensive operations against
adversary computer networks. The first step was creating a position of White
House director for cybersecurity issues.

But the plans raised concerns that respect for privacy, diplomatic rules and
sovereignty may be harmed as the administration accelerates its efforts to
detect and attack adversaries on global computer networks that disregard
borders.

''I can't reiterate enough that this is not about the militarization of cyber,''
said Bryan Whitman, a Pentagon spokesman, in discussing Mr. Gates's order on
Tuesday.

''This is an internal Department of Defense reorganization,'' Mr. Whitman said.
''It is focused only on military networks to better consolidate and streamline
Department of Defense capabilities into a single command.''

The officer in charge of Cybercom would report up military channels through the
Strategic Command, based in Omaha, Neb., which previously was in charge of
network warfare and is the headquarters for military efforts in areas like space
and nuclear deterrence.

Operating within Strategic Command, the new headquarters would be referred to as
a ''sub-unified command,'' not unlike how subordinate four-star commanders in
Iraq and Afghanistan report to another four-star commander at Central Command,
in charge of all military operations in the Middle East.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               38 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 25, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Little Cameras With Big Eyes

BYLINE: By JOHN BIGGS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Personal Tech; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1091 words


What, exactly, is an ultrazoom camera?

The ultrazoom species of point-and-shoot digital camera is identified solely by
its large optical zoom. Most point-and-shoots, because of their shirt-pocket
size, have optical zooms that top out at around 8X.

The product info on the Web site may tell you that the camera has, say, a 32X
zoom, but most of that is done by blowing up the pixels of the image (known as
digital zoom) and making everything look like a Seurat painting. For a real
optical zoom, you need a lens that can be moved in relation to the image sensor
-- and that requires a camera larger than the latest ultracompact models.

But cameras with big optical zooms suffer from a few problems that manufacturers
have been trying to solve. First, the closer you zoom in to a scene, the more
the image is affected by movement. Automatic image stabilization can take care
of most of the blur. Images can also look slightly odd because of lighting or
exposure problems when zooming. All of the cameras we tested, however, performed
admirably while zooming in bright sunlight.

There are currently two types of ultrazoom cameras: the full size and the
compact. The full-size models resemble those digital single-lens-reflex cameras
carried by professionals; compact ultrazooms look more like pumped-up standard
point-and-shoot cameras.

I pitted five models against each other in an ultrazoom showdown. The average
ultrazoom I tested weighed about 15 ounces with a battery -- the lightest
weighed in at 8 ounces. All of the cameras had 3-inch LCD screens and, except
for two compact models, smaller viewfinder LCD screens.

Aside from comparing the basic specs, we shot two scenes with each camera, using
the same lighting and ''Auto'' mode without flash. The indoor shot was a small,
colorful still-life; outside we took photos of a backyard and then a close-up of
a planter about 30 feet away.

Canon PowerShot SX200 IS

Details: $350, 12 megapixels, 12x optical zoom, 3-inch LCD

Fun Features: Blink-detection notifies you if a subject blinks during the shot.
A smart auto mode changes settings for close-ups and long shots.

The SX200 is about two inches thick and weighs about 8 ounces. The 12x zoom lens
pops out of the front and takes up most of the camera's face, making it a bit
hard to grip when taking action shots. In bright sunlight, the camera performed
admirably and the odd features -- including  color replacement, which allows you
to, say, swap pink for blue in every photo -- will make some people happy.

The test shots showed excellent color reproduction, although the indoor shot
looked a little washed-out.

This camera is similar in size and shape to the average point-and-shoot circa
2001. It fits into a pocket, which can't be said for the larger ultrazooms.

Grade: A-

Kodak Z980

Details: $400, 12 megapixels, 24x optical zoom

Fun features: A special portrait mode activates a button on the right edge that
acts as a shutter release. The button layout on the back changes as well.

The Z980 is an inexpensive ultrazoom with plenty of high-end features. But it
was the slowest we tested, with lag times of up to three seconds. At $400, it is
one of the cheapest full-size ultrazooms, but it does not have a tilting LCD
screen. On the plus side, it has a panoramic stitching feature (you shoot
different parts of a wide image, and the camera merges them digitally) and uses
four AAA batteries instead of a dedicated battery pack.

Grade: C

Nikon CoolPix P90

Details: $400, 12 megapixels, 24x optical zoom

Fun features: Better wide-angle shots mean you can grab an entire stage without
cutting off the left and right sides.

One of the fastest cameras we tested, it also has a sports mode that shoots 15
frames a second at 3 megapixels. Blink and smile modes ensure you don't get sad,
squinty pictures at your next family outing. But the large lens and small grip
on the right side might put off people with large hands.

The Z980's zoomed image quality was probably the worst -- the scene of the
planter had an odd, blurry cast. The still-life photos, however, were quite
sharp, if a little washed-out in auto mode. The camera weighs only about 16
ounces, but seems bigger simply because of the larger lens.

Grade: B

Olympus SP-590UZ

Details: $450, 12 megapixels, 26x optical zoom

Fun features: Face detection can track up to 16 mugs and ensures everyone is in
focus.  ''Beauty'' mode adds virtual Vaseline to the lens for a softer, more
attractive portrait.

The Olympus ultrazoom had the highest optical zoom of our test models, maxing
out at 26x, and nice color reproduction. The Olympus, like the Sony model we
tested, offered a bright and realistic color range.

The Olympus has a number of odd modes, but Beauty mode takes the cake. This mode
''softens'' facial features and reduces visible girth, making everyone look like
a model  --  although results may vary depending on the subject.

Grade: B+

Sony Cyber-shot DSC-HX1

Details: $500, 9 megapixels, 20x optical zoom

Fun features: A 10-image-a-second burst mode ensures you'll get at least one
good shot.

At 16 ounces, the Cyber-shot DSC-HX1 was the most compact of all of the
full-size cameras we tested. The camera has a hinged LCD screen that swings up
and down, but doesn't swivel. The shots were quick and sharp even in low light
and without flash. The camera had some minor issues with close-up photos  --
mainly focusing on the wrong part of the scene and creating a messy blur  --
but in terms of shooting speed, the Sony won hands-down.

In identical test situations, the Sony also had brighter colors in auto mode,
offering a more nuanced photo. Interestingly, this model had the best viewfinder
LCD: the image looked sharper in the viewfinder than on the large LCD screen.

Grade: A+

These ultrazoom models had similar zoom ranges as well as  similar features. The
real difference was in onboard software -- the features and modes that let the
camera perform tricks like smile- and blink-detection -- and in photo quality
when zoomed. In this test, the Sony offered the sharpest zoomed picture,
followed by the Nikon. All of the cameras allowed me to count the leaves on the
potted plant at about 30 feet away, although with varying levels of blur and
distortion.

In terms of size and portability, the Canon won in the compact shootout, while
the Sony won in the full-size class. The Sony is hardly a pocket camera, but it
was the most compact in the roundup, ensuring you won't be weighted down while
spotting faraway subjects.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GRADE: A: Canon PowerShot SX200 IS
GRADE: C: Kodak Z980
GRADE: B: Nikon CoolPix P90
GRADE: B+: Olympus SP-590UZ
 GRADE: A+:  Sony Cyber-shot DSC-HX1

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               39 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                             June 25, 2009 Thursday

June 25: Updates on Iran's Disputed Election

BYLINE: ROBERT MACKEY

LENGTH: 4521 words



HIGHLIGHT: To supplement reporting by New York Times journalists inside Iran on
Thursday, The Lede will continue to track the aftermath of Iran's disputed
presidential election.



Readers inside Iran or in touch with people there are encouraged to send us
photographs or use the comment box below to tell us what you are seeing or
hearing.

Update | 8:30 p.m. A final update for the evening. A reader writes to tell us
that the opposition's shouts of protest continued on Thursday night in Tehran:

Just spoke to a friend in Teheran few hours ago (10:10 pm local time). You could
hear the sound of Alluh'o Akbar in the background. He was in Baharestan
yesterday. He mentioned heavy police presence, but there were lots of people on
the side walk just walking. The riot police would attack people randomly but no
one was running away.

Thanks to the reader who wrote in to tell us that the video we included in our
post at 5:04 p.m. does seem to have been shot near the site of Wednesday's
protest around Baharestan Square in Tehran.

The Lede will return on Friday to continue tracking events in Iran. If there are
developments overnight, they will be reported on the home page of NYTimes.com.
Thanks for your comments and links.

Update | 8:00 p.m. This video report from Al Jazeera English includes new
footage the broadcaster says was filmed during Saturday's clashes and appears to
show Basij militia members shooting at protesters from a rooftop. Several video
clips uploaded to YouTube since Saturday have shown images of protesters who
were apparently shot during clashes that day.

Update | 7:52 p.m. Now that it is early Friday morning in Iran, an Iranian
blogger writes on Twitter of a new way of registering protest opposition
supporters say they plan for this afternoon:

at one PM people all over Iran will be airing green balloons and make the sky
GREEN!

Some posts on Twitter suggest that another opposition rally has been called for
a specific square in Tehran on Friday morning -- but other bloggers warn that
the authorities may now be calling people to fake rallies, just to make it
easier to round up protesters.

Update | 7:19 p.m. One of the many ways the Iranian media has tried to direct
blame away from Iran's government for the shooting death of Neda Agha-Soltan on
Saturday is to suggest that she was shot as part of a conspiracy organized by
the Mujahedeen Khalq, or People's Mujahedeen, which is the militant arm of the
National Council of Resistance of Iran, an exile group opposed to Iran's
government.

Given that, supporters of the opposition movement inside Iran -- who want to
reform rather than overthrow the country's government -- will probably not be
happy to see that Maryam Rajavi, who leads the National Council of Resistance of
Iran, gave a speech on Thursday in France next to a photograph of Ms.
Agha-Soltan.

Far from helping Iran's opposition, this image, of the anti-regime exile group
rallying around Ms. Agha-Soltan's image, could make it easier for Iran's
government to discredit the protests and spread the conspiracy theory that her
death was part of some elaborate plot.

In 2003, Elizabeth Rubin reported on its militant wing in Iraq after the fall of
Saddam Hussein, who supported their efforts to overthrow Iran's government, in
The New York Times Magazine. In 2005, The Times's Craig Smith wrote a profile of
Ms. Rajavi, the exile group's leader.

Update | 7:00 p.m. Ethan Zuckerman, a senior researcher at the Berkman Center
for Internet and Society at Harvard Law School, notes on Thursday that it only
took a few minutes for news about a celebrity death to outstrip news about Iran
on Twitter:

My twitter search script sees roughly 15% of all posts on Twitter mentioning
Michael Jackson. Never saw Iran or swine flu reach over 5%

An Iranian Twitter user writes that he doesn't care about Michael Jackson and is
more worried about rumors that a prominent opposition politician may have died
in custody.

Update | 6:46 p.m. In addition to using Twitter to harass and threaten other
users of the service who support the opposition protests in Iran, the person
tweeting under the name Vagheeiat, who says that he is a member of the "cyber
army" of Iran's Revolutionary Guards, has been using the service to spread false
information in Farsi -- like  claiming that the United Nations has "approved"
Iran's election.

Update | 6:11 p.m. Here is some evidence that the security forces are striking
at the property of people they believe to be opposition supporters -- including
their air conditioners and satellite dishes. In this video uploaded to YouTube
on Thursday, an Iranian man gives a tour of the damage to his apartment building
he says was caused by a recent attack from men dressed in police uniforms.

The man tells the person shooting the video: "They were police. They had Arabic
accents. They broke this entry way. This door is locked from inside. They broke
the door, as a matter of fact they took the door off its hinges. They went up to
the roof where the air conditioners and everything are and threw them down."
When the cameraman asks "Did you contact the police?" the man replies: "Those
who came had police uniforms on. What police is there to call?"

Update | 5:43 p.m. A blogger who seems to be writing from inside Iran has
uploaded a montage of graphic and very disturbing images of what the blogger
calls "martyrs" of the opposition protests.

This same blogger was threatened with arrest earlier today on Twitter in a
message written by another Twitter user who is using the alias Vagheeiat
("Truth") and claims to be a member of Iran's Revolutionary Guards.

In a bizarre exchange, after a third Twitter user posted this warning --
"@Vagheeiat is a government agent, from IRG's cyber warfare group gerdab.ir
#iranelection (VAGHEEIAT IS BASIJ!!)" -- Vagheeiat indignantly replied: "i am
not basij! we are sepah! army of allah!" (Sepah is another name for Iran's
Revolutionary Guards.)

Vagheeiat indeed writes in the profile section of his Twitter account that he is
a member of the Republican Guards' "cyber army" and provides a link to the Web
site Gerdab ("Whirlpool"), which has been posting photographs shot at
demonstrations and asking Iranians to help identify protesters so that they can
be arrested.

Update | 5:38 p.m. A Twitter feed apparently maintained by supporters of Mir
Hussein Moussavi, Mousavi1388, reports that shouts of "Allahu Akbar" were ehard
again on Thursday night , and suggests that the opposition may be planning a new
form of protest for Friday:

The Living voice of the Movement was heard again"Allahu Akbar". This Friday, We
all are going to send GREEN BALLOONS to the sky

Update | 5:26 p.m. According to a report from Press TV, Iran's state-financed,
English-language broadcaster, dozens of professors who met with opposition
leader Mir Hussein Moussavi this week were not arrested. Press TV, citing an
Iranian news agency, reports that "following the conclusion of the meeting,
Judiciary officials discussed certain issues with those attending the meeting."

Update | 5:04 p.m. This long and somewhat blurry amateur video, which was
uploaded to YouTube on Thursday, supposedly showing events in Tehran on
Wednesday, when a rally was broken up by security forces near Baharestan Square
and there were some reports of violent clashes near Lalezar Street. If any
readers who are familiar with Tehran can help us identify where this video was
shot -- or anyone has seen it posted before today on YouTube -- please let us
know, using the comment box below this post.

Later: :

The video in question is indeed around Baharestan Square where the Majless
(parliament) is located. You can see (in different parts of the video) parts of
the square, Jomhuri St. around Mokhberol-doleh, the area above Sepahsalar
mosque, which are within the 1/2-mile vicinity of Majless.

Update | 3:49 p.m. The BBC has published more accounts of the situation in Iran
these days based on information sent to them by e-mail. One of the e-mail
messages included this video, said to have been shot in Tehran on Wednesday
night, in which opposition protesters can be heard shouting "Allahu Akbar!" into
the night sky. The person who sent this video to the BBC added that even
shouting is not without risk, since members of the Basij militia were "wandering
the streets and looking up at buildings to find out where the chanting is coming
from."

Other opposition supporters wrote to say that they had been detained and
released, after trying to use the Web to spread information on the protests:

One man, who sent video of pro-reform demonstrations in Tehran to the BBC
earlier this week, emailed again to say he had been detained by Basiji forces on
Wednesday evening. "I was arrested and beaten for about six hours from 1830 to
0100 and then they left me in a place outside Tehran," he wrote. He added he was
tired, but "still standing for freedom and democracy." [...]

A student who was tweeting regularly on the protests in Tehran has started
posting again for the first time since Sunday:

I'm only posting this to say I'm still alive & not in Tehran, I had a bad
incident with Basij and couldn't use computer

Update | 3:12 p.m. An Iranian-American reader of The Lede who has been writing
to us from Tehran says that Enghelab Square in central Tehran "today was real
quiet." According to messages posted online on Wednesday night, Enghelab was to
have been the site of a protest on Thursday. Our reader notes that the city was
possibly quiet on Thursday "today and tomorrow is the concur -- the huge test
that every kid takes at the end of high school."

The reader also passes on these observations of how daily life in Tehran now
looks from his perspective:

Many people outside of Iran of course are hopeful for the opposition but one
needs to understand a couple of things.  First, that, inconceivably perhaps to
those outside, life goes on in a city of 8-10 million even while the crackdown
occurs: the concur (national exam) is today and tomorrow for millions of high
schoolers, the trains run on time, and Enghelab Square today from 3 pm until 6
pm had only traffic cops present. It might seem harsh, and disappointing, but
those are the dynamics of demobilization.

Second, if there are protests, they are sporadic and, as far as I know,
unorganized.  These kids are not Che Guevaras, and this is not foco revolution
where hit and run is a viable tactic.  I am not Kapuscinski and thus I am not as
good at being romantic about all of this.  All we can do as responsible
individuals is parse between the extreme hearsay and rumors on all sides.  None
of that takes away the accomplishments of the Iranian demonstrations over the
past weeks, which have made a major shift in Iranian history akin to 1906, 1953,
and 1979, nor does it take away from the tragedy of lost life.

Update | 2:31 p.m. The BBC has aired this video interview with the doctor who
tried to save the life of Neda Agha-Soltan last Saturday in Tehran, after she
was shot during an opposition protest. As The Lede reported yesterday, Dr. Arash
Hejazi left Iran this week and is now in London. The Brazilian novelist Paulo
Coehlo, a friend of Dr. Hejazi, published their recent e-mail correspondence on
his blog on Wednesday.

Update | 12:32 p.m. My colleague Neil MacFarquhar writes in Thursday's New York
Times that, while many people have been speculating about a possible power
struggle inside Iran's clerical establishment, the people in charge of the
country's security forces and state media seem to be allies of President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad.

Mr. MacFarquhar reports that even though the incumbent president has been
largely quiet during the protests, "analysts said the crackdown now taking place
across Iran suggested that Mr. Ahmadinejad had succeeded in creating a pervasive
network of important officials in the military, security agencies, and major
media outlets, a new elite made especially formidable by support from one
important constituent, Iran's supreme leader himself."

Mr. MacFarquhar adds:

Mr. Ahmadinejad has filled crucial ministries and other top posts with close
friends and allies who have spread ideological and operational support for him
nationwide. These analysts estimate that he has replaced 10,000 government
employees to cement his loyalists through the bureaucracies, so that his allies
run the organizations responsible for both the contested election returns and
the official organs that have endorsed them.

"There is a whole political establishment that emerged with Ahmadinejad, which
is now determined to hold on to power undemocratically," said one American-based
Iran analyst, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of his work in
Iran. "Their ability to resist the outcome of the election means they have a
broad base as a political establishment."

Update | 12:21 p.m. In an audio interview on The Guardian's Web site, Massoumeh
Torfeh, an Iranian academic in London, says that President Obama "has played his
cards quite well." Ms. Torfeh also suggests that, while many outsiders may think
that contacts between the United States and Iran are now impossible, the Obama
administration may still be able to talk with prominent supporters of the
opposition who retain some clout in Iran's labyrinthian power structure, like
the former presidents Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and Mohammed Khatami.

Update | 11:58 a.m. Lara Setrakian of ABC News writes in a Twitter update that
state television in Iran has accused the government of Saudi Arabia of being
behind the protests in Iran.

There is no mention of that yet on Press TV, which is the Iranian government's
English-language satellite channel, but one of the main stories on Press TV's
Web site for the past two days has been an account of an article published in
The New York Times on Wednesday about possible ties between members of the Saudi
royal family and Al Qaeda. Press TV's account of the article is headlined:
"Saudi Royals Funded 9/11: Lawyers."

Update | 11:46 a.m. John Simpson of the BBC, who was in Iran until his visa ran
out on Sunday, writes on Thursday that he came across opponents of President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad inside the country's military. Mr. Simpson's report begins:

For reasons best not explained, I've come to know a former member of the
Revolutionary Guards really well. He's done some pretty dreadful things in his
life, from attacking women in the streets for not wearing the full Islamic gear
to fighting alongside Islamic revolutionaries in countries abroad.

And yet now, in the tumult that has gripped Iran since its elections last week,
he's had a change of heart. He's become a backer of Mir Hossein Mousavi, the
reformist candidate who alleges fraud in the elections. He's saved up the money
to send his son to a private school abroad, and he loathes President
Ahmadinejad. He's not the only one.

I had to leave Iran last Sunday, when the authorities refused to renew my visa.
But before I left, another former senior Revolutionary Guard came to our hotel
to see us. "Remember me," he pleaded. "Remember that I helped the BBC." I
realised that even a person so intimately linked to the Islamic Revolution
thinks that something will soon change in Iran.

Update | 10:43 a.m. According to report on the Farsi-language Web site
Gooya.com, which is run from outside Iran, sources in Tehran say Mir Hussein
Moussavi, who has not been seen in public since last Thursday's huge rally, is
under house arrest.

Update | 9:52 a.m. Omid Habibinia, an Iranian blogger in Switzerland who has
been tracking developments in Tehran, writes:

Internet Speed is near Zero in Tehran right now, cant get news.

Update | 9:36 a.m. Several of the bloggers we have been following on Twitter,
who have apparently been writing from inside Iran, have been accused of being
Israeli spies by a blogger who seems to be a supporter or member of the Iranian
government.

In a dramatic dialogue taking place through Twitter, this pro-government
blogger, writing in Farsi on Twitter, warned three prominent opposition bloggers
on Thursday that they will soon be arrested. The pro-government blogger wrote
that the opposition bloggers had been identified by the authorities after
photographs of protesters were posted on an Iranian Web site, Gerdab -- which is
the Farsi word for "whirlpool."

The pro-government blogger also wrote in English, in reply to another Twitter
user, that these opposition bloggers who have been filing regular updates on the
protests on the micro-blogging site: "are spy of moosad, the election is true
and clean."

In reply, one of the opposition supporters still posting updates on Twitter
warned other users of the site, in Farsi, to beware of this pro-government
blogger.

Update | 9:32 a.m. Press TV, Iran's state-supported, English-language satellite
channel reports on Thursday that the Iranian soccer players who reportedly
"retired" from the national team after wearing green wristbands to show their
support for the opposition, did so of their own accord:

Head of the Iranian parliament's Sports Committee rejects reports of a ban on
four Iranian football players for wearing green wrist bands in the Iran-South
Korea match. "No player has been banned and basically Parliament is not
authorized to impose such a ban," Jalal Yahya-zade said on Thursday.

The announcement came after a number of international media outlets including
the CNN claimed that four members of the Iranian national football team were
banned for life after what they called 'a display of political support' for the
defeated presidential candidate Mir Hussein Mousavi. A number of Iranian
footballers wore green arm- and wrist-bands during the first half of the
Iran-South Korea game on June 17.

On Tuesday, the Iranian striker Ali Karimi and winger Mehdi Mahdavikia announced
their retirement from the Iranian national soccer squad which failed to qualify
for the 2010 World Cup in South Africa. According to Iran's Football Federation
(IFF) Vice President Mehdi Taj, the two top players bade farewell to the
national team of their own volition.

Update | 9:30 a.m. The BBC notes that a senior member of Iran's government was
among those who did not attend a victory party for Mr. Ahmadinejad on Wednesday
night:

One of those who reportedly failed to turn up was Parliament Speaker Ali
Larijani, a high-profile figure who shares some of Mr Ahmadinejad's hardline
views but has been critical of some aspects of the government's handling of the
protests.

Update | 9:23 a.m. Near the end of a discussion on the PBS Newshour on Wednesday
night, two Iranian-American experts -- Haleh Esfandiari and Hooman Majd --
agreed that Mir Hussein Moussavi must appear in public again soon to keep the
opposition movement going. There have been reports that Mr. Moussavi is under
close observation by Iran's secret police, and may be effectively, if not
officially, under house arrest. Here is the video of that Newshour discussion
looking at the role Mr. Moussavi, and his wife, Zahra Rahnavard, in the
opposition protests:

Update | 9:18 a.m. As The Times reported earlier this morning, it seems that
some members of Iran's Parliament might prefer not to be seen with Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad these days: "at least three Iranian newspapers reported that only
105 of 290 members of the Iranian Parliament invited to a victory party for him
Wednesday night actually attended the event, suggesting a deep divide within the
political elite over the election and its aftermath."

Update | 9:01 a.m. On The Guardian's Web site, Matt Weaver addresses a problem
that we discussed on The Lede on Wednesday night -- that the Web is now flooded
with video clips that have been given the wrong date by people uploading them to
sites like YouTube and Facebook, and this is creating problems for journalists:

There are several Twitter messages urging citizens journalists in Iran to video
copies of daily newspapers to help authenticate the date of what they film. That
is easier said than done given how chaotic the scenes have been. But it
highlights a growing problem on the coverage of this crisis. The media keeps
being sent footage claiming to be recent when it turns out to have been filmed
several days before.

Watching MSNBC last night, your Lede blogger saw at least four video clips from
Iran that were almost certainly shot on previous days mistakenly said by the
network to show events that took place on Wednesday.

Many bloggers are obviously activists who support the opposition in Iran, and
may be acting out of a desire to feed the outrage over the security crackdown
that is obviously taking place there by re-uploading and mis-dating these
amateur video clips. We would point out though that doing that may undercut the
value of these accounts from citizen journalists in Iran, by making it easy for
skeptics to cast doubt on their veracity.

Update | 8:59 a.m. Al Jazeera reports that Mehdi Karroubi, one of the opposition
presidential candidates who has contested the results of the June 12 election,
"has called off a planned ceremony to mourn the deaths of at least 19 people
killed in protests." Al Jazeera writes that an announcement was posted on the
Web site of Mr. Karroubi's political party:

"Despite all the efforts exerted by the sheikh of reforms [Karroubi] to prepare
a site for the mourning ceremony, the ceremony will not take place on Thursday,"
the website of his Etemad Melli party said.

"It is very unfortunate that in this situation, even political leaders such as
Karroubi are not given a site to hold a mourning ceremony," it said.

Update | 8:34 a.m. An Iranian-American reader of The Lede, who witnessed some of
Wednesday's opposition rally, wrote this morning in an e-mail message from
Tehran that he has doubts about the account of yesterday's events given to CNN
in a telephone interview on Wednesday. According to our reader:

When I was over there at the quasi-rally I realized that the repression of
protests have now mostly devolved into the standard Irish cop swinging his baton
rhythmically and saying "nothing to see here folks."  That's exactly what I saw.
This stuff about shooting, tear gas, and even defenestration from a bridge that
CNN reported ... seems unlikely.  Of course it could have happened but I don't
see the logic in it.  These cops are tired -- you can tell, and they're not
Lebanese either.

The reader adds: "The problem here is that, with the censorship, rumors become
news fast," and then, as they get passed on, "they get 'telephoned' into worse
rumors."

Update | 8:27 a.m. Omid Habibinia, an Iranian blogger and journalist living in
Switzerland, reports on his Twitter feed that he is hearing from sources in
Tehran that more clashes are taking place on Thursday, as opposition supporters
attempt to rally. Mr. Habibinia writes:

Anti-Riot Police get postion in Vali Asr Cr and Enghelab St.

Clashes at Enghalb Sq. #iranelection16 minutes ago from web

Reports: More than 1000 ppl chanting against Regime asking others join then near
Taleghani Cr.

Hezbollah Attacking Passengers at Enghelab St. Avoiding to Ghater in one
Place...

Army Helicopters Flying Over Protesters at Enghelab Sq.

Somebody Wrote Me I will be in Demo Soon, If I Shoot Dead Please Pay for
"Bullets Fee" and Take my Body Out!

Reports: Some People Arrested at Vali Aasr SQ.

Anti-Riot Police making Blockage at Azadi St, Jamalzadeh Junc.

Update | 8:04 a.m. Grand Ayatollah Hossein Ali Montazeri, a dissident Iranian
cleric, said in a statement faxed to the French news agency A.F.P. on Thursday
that continued suppression of dissent could threaten the country's government.
According to A.F.P. the cleric's statement said:

If Iranians cannot talk about their legitimate rights at peaceful gatherings and
are instead suppressed, frustrations will build up which could possibly uproot
the foundations of the government, no matter how powerful.

The news agency reports:

It was the latest broadside fired off against the regime by Montazeri, who was
once tipped to take over from the father of the revolution Ayatollah Ruhollah
Khomeini but fell out with the late leader before his death. Montazeri, now 85,
also urged the authorities to set up an "impartial" committee with full power to
find a solution to the worst crisis in the 30-year history of the Islamic
republic.

"My recommendation to the great and dear Iranian nation is to pursue its logical
and fair demands in complete calm," he added. [...]

Last week Montazeri called on Iran's young people to pursue peaceful
demonstrations against the election result, which the opposition has charged was
rigged to ensure victory for the hardline incumbent.

One of the main architects of the Islamic republic, Montazeri was a student and
close ally of Khomeini. But he fell from grace in the late 1980s after he became
too openly critical of political and cultural restrictions, most notably Iran's
treatment of political prisoners and opposition groups.

Montazeri resigned months before Khomeini's death in 1989, and was told by
Khomeini to stay out of politics and focus instead on teaching in the religious
city of Qom. Montazeri, considered by his followers to be the highest living
authority of Shiite Islam in Iran, has also questioned the theological
credentials of current supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

Update | 7:21 a.m. Reuters reports that Hir Hussein Moussavi, who has not been
seen in public in a week, said in remarks reported on his newspaper's Web site
that he is not willing to stop contesting the official results of Iran's June 12
presidential election. According to Reuters, Mr. Moussavi said:

I am pressured to abandon my demand for the vote annulment ... a major rigging
has happened ... I am prepared to prove that those behind the rigging are
responsible for the bloodshed ... Continuation of legal and calm protests will
guarantee achieving our goals.

The remarks are reported in one of several recent articles published on
Kalemeh.ir, the Web site of Mr. Moussavi's newspaper, which is available only in
Farsi at this time.

A report from Agence France-Presse adds that Mr. Moussavi also said: "I won't
refrain from securing the rights of the Iranian people... because of personal
interests and the fear of threats."

As Robert Tait reports on The Guardian's Web site, Kalemeh also says that Mr.
Moussavi told a meeting of Iranian sociologists this week: "The recent pressure
on me is aimed at making me withdraw from my stance of annulling election." Mr.
Moussavi added: "Given the current situation, the government will face a crisis
of political legitimacy." Mr. Tait notes that Mr. Moussavi also criticized the
Iran's ruling cleric, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, for siding with Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad: "The supreme leader's support for the government in normal
conditions would be useful, but the impression of his identification with the
president is not for the benefit of the country."

As the BBC reported on Thursday, another article on Mr. Moussavi's Kalemeh Web
site said that "70 university professors were arrested immediately after meeting
Mr. Moussavi on Wednesday, and it was not clear where they had been taken."


     ·    Ahmadinejad Was Slapped by General, Leaked Cable Says
     ·    An Iranian Director's Impassioned Defense
     ·    Beirut Festival Pulled Film to Spare Ahmadinejad's Feelings
     ·    Iranian Opposition Leaders Call Off Protest
     ·    Tehran Students Protest Ahmadinejad Visit


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               40 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 28, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. AND RUSSIA DIFFER ON TREATY FOR CYBERSPACE

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF and ANDREW E. KRAMER; John Markoff reported from New
York, and Andrew E. Kramer from Moscow. Edward Wong and Xiyun Yang contributed
reporting from Beijing.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1316 words


The United States and Russia are locked in a fundamental dispute over how to
counter the growing threat of cyberwar attacks that could wreak havoc on
computer systems and the Internet.

Both nations agree that cyberspace is an emerging battleground. The two sides
are expected to address the subject when President Obama visits Russia next week
and at the General Assembly of the United Nations in November, according to a
senior State Department official.

But there the agreement ends.

Russia favors an international treaty along the lines of those negotiated for
chemical weapons and has pushed for that approach at a series of meetings this
year and in public statements by a high-ranking official.

The United States argues that a treaty is unnecessary. It instead advocates
improved cooperation among international law enforcement groups. If these groups
cooperate to make cyberspace more secure against criminal intrusions, their work
will also make cyberspace more secure against military campaigns, American
officials say.

''We really believe it's defense, defense, defense,'' said the State Department
official, who asked not to be identified because authorization had not been
given to speak on the record.  ''They want to constrain offense. We needed to be
able to criminalize these horrible 50,000 attacks we were getting a day.''

Any agreement on cyberspace presents special difficulties because the matter
touches on issues like censorship of the Internet, sovereignty and rogue actors
who might not be subject to a treaty.

United States officials say the disagreement over approach has hindered
international law enforcement cooperation, particularly given that a significant
proportion of the attacks against American government targets are coming from
China and Russia.

And from the Russian perspective, the absence of a treaty is permitting a kind
of arms race with potentially dangerous consequences.

Officials around the world recognize the need to deal with the growing threat of
cyberwar. Many countries, including the United States, are developing weapons
for it, like ''logic bombs'' that can be hidden in computers to halt them at
crucial times or damage circuitry; ''botnets'' that can disable or spy on Web
sites and networks; or microwave radiation devices that can burn out computer
circuits miles away.

The Pentagon is planning to create a military command to prepare for both
defense and offensive computer warfare. And last month, President Obama released
his cybersecurity strategy and said he would appoint a ''cybersecurity
coordinator'' to lead efforts to protect government computers, the air traffic
control system and other essential systems. The administration also emphasizes
the benefits of building international cooperation.

The Russian and American approaches -- a treaty and a law enforcement agreement
-- are not necessarily incompatible. But they represent different philosophical
approaches.

In a speech on March 18, Vladislav P. Sherstyuk, a deputy secretary of the
Russian Security Council, a powerful body advising the president on national
security, laid out what he described as Russia's bedrock positions on
disarmament in cyberspace. Russia's proposed treaty would ban a country from
secretly embedding malicious codes or circuitry that could be later activated
from afar in the event of war.

Other Russian proposals include the application of humanitarian laws banning
attacks on noncombatants and a ban on deception in operations in cyberspace --
an attempt to deal with the challenge of anonymous attacks. The Russians have
also called for broader international government oversight of the Internet.

But American officials are particularly resistant to agreements that would allow
governments to censor the Internet, saying they would provide cover for
totalitarian regimes. These officials also worry that a treaty would be
ineffective because it can be almost impossible to determine if an Internet
attack originated from a government, a hacker loyal to that government, or a
rogue acting independently.

The unique challenge of cyberspace is that governments can carry out deceptive
attacks to which they cannot be linked,  said Herbert Lin, director of a study
by the National Research Council, a private, nonprofit organization, on the
development of cyberweapons.

This challenge became apparent in 2001, after a Navy P-3 surveillance plane
collided with a Chinese fighter plane, said Linton Wells II, a former
high-ranking Pentagon official who now teaches at the National Defense
University. The collision was followed by a huge increase in attacks on United
States government computer targets from sources that could not be identified, he
said.

Similarly, after computer attacks in Estonia in April 2007 and in the nation of
Georgia last August, the Russian government denied involvement and independent
observers said the attacks could have been carried out by nationalist
sympathizers or by criminal gangs.

The United States is trying to improve cybersecurity by building relationships
among international law enforcement agencies. State Department officials hold
out as a model the Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime, which took effect
in 2004 and has been signed by 22 nations, including the United States but not
Russia or China.

But Russia objects that the European convention on cybercrime allows the police
to open an investigation of suspected online crime originating in another
country without first informing local authorities, infringing on traditional
ideas of sovereignty. Vladimir V. Sokolov, deputy director of the Institute for
Information Security Issues, a policy organization, noted that Russian
authorities routinely cooperated with foreign police organizations when they
were approached.

This is not the first time the issue of arms control for cyberspace has been
raised.

In 1996, at the dawn of commercial cyberspace, American and Russian military
delegations met secretly in Moscow to discuss the subject. The American
delegation was led by an academic military strategist, and the Russian
delegation by a four-star admiral. No agreement emerged from the meeting, which
has not previously been reported.

Later, the Russian government repeatedly introduced resolutions calling for
cyberspace disarmament treaties before the United Nations. The United States
consistently opposed the idea.

In late April, Russian military representatives indicated an interest in renewed
negotiations at a Russian-sponsored meeting on computer security in Garmisch,
Germany.

John Arquilla, an expert in military strategy at the Naval Postgraduate School
in Monterey, Calif., who led the American delegation at the 1996 talks, said he
had received almost no interest from within the American military after those
initial meetings. ''It was a great opportunity lost,'' he said.

Unlike American officials who favor tightening law enforcement relationships,
Mr. Arquilla continues to believe in cyberspace weapons negotiations, he said.
He noted that the treaties on chemical weapons had persuaded many nations not to
make or stockpile such weapons.

The United States and China have not held high-level talks on cyberwar issues,
specialists say. But there is some evidence that the Chinese are being courted
by Russia for support of an arms control treaty for cyberspace.

''China has consistently attached extreme importance to matters of information
security, and has always actively supported and participated in efforts by the
international community dedicated to maintaining Internet safety and cracking
down on criminal cyber-activity,'' Qin Gang, spokesman for the Foreign Ministry,
said in a statement.

Whether the American or Russian approach prevails, arms control experts said,
major governments are reaching a point of no return in heading off a cyberwar
arms race.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A ceremony at a Soviet war statue in Tallinn, Estonia, in 2007.
The decision to move the statue from the city center to a military cemetery
enraged Russia and Russian Estonians. It was followed by a crippling, monthlong
siege of Estonian computer networks.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NIPA, VIA ASSOCIATED
PRESS)(A4)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               41 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 2, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Defend America, One Laptop at a Time

BYLINE: By JACK GOLDSMITH.

Jack Goldsmith, a professor at Harvard Law School who was an assistant attorney
general from 2003 to 2004, is writing a book on cyberwar.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 889 words

DATELINE: Cambridge, Mass.


OUR economy, energy supply, means of transportation and military defenses are
dependent on vast, interconnected computer and telecommunications networks.
These networks are poorly defended and  vulnerable to theft, disruption or
destruction by foreign states, criminal organizations, individual hackers and,
potentially, terrorists. In the last few months it has been reported that
Chinese network operations have found their way into American electricity grids,
and computer spies have broken into the Pentagon's Joint Strike Fighter project.

Acknowledging such threats, President Obama recently declared that digital
infrastructure is a ''strategic national asset,'' the protection of which is a
national security priority.

One of many  hurdles to meeting this goal is that the private sector owns and
controls most of the networks the government must protect. In addition to banks,
energy suppliers and telecommunication companies, military and intelligence
agencies use these private networks. This is a dangerous state of affairs,
because the firms that build and run computer and communications networks focus
on increasing  profits, not protecting national security. They invest in levels
of safety that satisfy their own  purposes, and tend not to worry when they
contribute to insecure networks that jeopardize national security.

This is a classic market failure that only government leadership can correct.
The tricky task is for the government to fix the problem in ways that do not
stifle innovation or unduly hamper civil liberties.

Our digital security problems start with ordinary computer users who do not take
security seriously. Their computers can be infiltrated and used as vehicles for
attacks on military or corporate systems. They are also often the first place
that adversaries go to steal credentials or identify targets as a prelude to
larger attacks.

President Obama has recognized the need to educate the public about computer
security. The government should jump-start this education by mandating minimum
computer security standards and by requiring Internet service providers to deny
or delay Internet access to computers that fall below these standards, or that
are sending spam or suspicious multiple computer probes into the network.

The government should also use legal liability or tax breaks to motivate
manufacturers -- especially makers of operating systems -- to improve
vulnerability-filled software that infects the entire network. It should mandate
disclosure of data theft and other digital attacks  --  to trusted private
parties, if not to the public or the government --  so that firms can share
information about common weapons and best defenses, and so the public can better
assess which firms' computer systems are secure. Increased information
production and sharing will also help create insurance markets that can elevate
best security practices.

But the private sector  cannot protect these networks by itself any more than it
can protect the land, air or water channels through which foreign adversaries or
criminal organizations might attack us. The government must be prepared to
monitor and, if necessary, intervene to secure  channels of cyberattack as well.

The Obama administration recently announced that it would set up a Pentagon
cybercommand to defend military networks. Some in the administration want to use
Cybercom to help the Department of Homeland Security protect the domestic
components of private networks that are under attack or being used for attacks.
Along similar lines, a Senate bill introduced in April would give the executive
branch broad emergency authority to limit or halt private  Internet traffic
related to ''critical infrastructure information systems.''

President Obama has tried to soothe civil liberties groups' understandable
worries  about these proposals. In the speech that outlined the national
security implications of our weak digital defenses, the president said the
government would not monitor private sector networks or Internet traffic, and
pledged to ''preserve and protect the personal privacy and civil liberties we
cherish as Americans.''

But the president is less than candid about the tradeoffs the nation faces. The
government must be given wider latitude than in the past to monitor private
networks and respond to the most serious computer threats.

These new powers should be strictly defined and regularly vetted to ensure legal
compliance and effectiveness. Last year's amendments to the nation's secret
wiretapping regime are a useful model. They expanded the president's secret
wiretapping powers, but also required  quasi-independent inspectors general in
the Department of Justice and the intelligence community to review effectiveness
and legal compliance and report to Congress regularly.

Many will balk at this proposal because of the excesses and mistakes associated
with the secret wiretapping regime in the Bush administration. These legitimate
concerns can be addressed with improved systems of review.

But they should not prevent us from empowering the government to meet the cyber
threats that jeopardize our national defense and economic security. If they do,
then privacy could suffer much more when the government reacts to a catastrophic
computer attack that it failed to prevent.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               42 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 4, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Pentagon Trailblazer, Rethinking How the U.S. Fights Wars

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1248 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


MICHELE A. FLOURNOY, one of the highest-ranking women in the history of the
Pentagon, did not have a childhood that would immediately suggest a future as a
defense policy intellectual who is rethinking how America fights its wars.

Her mother was an actress and singer who performed at the Copacabana, the
legendary New York nightclub, and was the understudy to Vivian Blaine in
''Oklahoma!'' on Broadway. Her father was a cinematography director in
television at Paramount Studios. She is a 1979 graduate of Beverly Hills High
School who spent her summers playing, she said, ''a lot of beach volleyball.''

But Ms. Flournoy, who went on to Harvard and then Balliol College at Oxford (''I
majored in rowing''), has spent her entire professional life immersed in the
theory and practice of war, from the arms control debate of the 1980s to the
counterinsurgency doctrine of today.

Now one of the most senior officials at the Pentagon, with the title of under
secretary of defense for policy, she holds the job considered the ''brains'' of
the building. Her portfolio includes matters like Iraq and Afghanistan and
pirates off the Horn of Africa, but her immediate task is the sweeping military
strategy reassessment, called the Quadrennial Defense Review, which the Pentagon
is required by Congress to produce every four years.

The undertaking boils down to this: assess the threats against the United
States, propose the strategy to counter them, then put it into effect by
allocating resources within the four branches of the armed services. A major
question for the Q.D.R., as it is called within the Pentagon, is how to balance
preparations for future counterinsurgency wars, like those in Iraq and
Afghanistan, with plans for conventional conflicts against well-equipped
potential adversaries, like North Korea, China or Iran.

Another quandary, given that the wars in both Iraq and Afghanistan have lasted
far longer than the American involvement in World War II, is how to prepare for
conflicts that could tie up American forces for decades.

''One of the things we've learned over the past eight years is that some of the
greatest demands, the most difficult challenges, are sustaining operations over
time,'' Ms. Flournoy, 48, said in a recent conversation in an unused office at
the Pentagon. (For security reasons, Ms. Flournoy's real office, in the
Pentagon's E Ring of top officials, is off limits to audio recorders and
therefore taped interviews.)

Already Ms. Flournoy is a driving force behind a new military strategy that will
be a central premise of the Q.D.R., the concept of ''hybrid'' war, which
envisions the conflicts of tomorrow as a complex mix of conventional battles,
insurgencies and cyber threats. ''We're trying to recognize that warfare may
come in a lot of different flavors in the future,'' Ms. Flournoy said.

The report, due to be delivered to Congress early next year, will be the first
broad look at the new administration's military thinking. But Ms. Flournoy is a
window into President Obama's no-drama Pentagon. Meticulous, academic and
reserved, Ms. Flournoy is in sharp contrast to the primary occupant of her job
in the previous administration, Douglas J. Feith, who used what is now known to
have been faulty intelligence to make an impassioned case for war with Iraq.

LIKE the Republican defense secretary she meets with almost daily, Robert M.
Gates, Ms. Flournoy is a centrist who advocates a strong defense but a less
aggressive American stance overseas. She was behind the development of Mr.
Obama's new strategy for Afghanistan, which called for an increase in
development experts as well as troops.

During the 2008 campaign, she was one of the few Democrats to say something nice
about the ''surge'' in troops in Iraq under President George W. Bush, calling
that one of ''four elements'' that had reduced violence in the country.

''There were people like myself who were committing political suicide,'' said
Michael E. O'Hanlon, a Democrat and military expert at the Brookings Institution
who was excoriated by critics on the left, among others, for more bluntly
supporting the surge after a government-guided tour of Iraq in 2007. ''But
Michele was masterful.''

Ms. Flournoy, who served in a lower-level Pentagon policy job in the Clinton
administration and is sometimes mentioned as a years-from-now possibility as the
first female defense secretary, said she began to make the transition from beach
volleyball to throw weights when she spent a summer in Europe as a high school
exchange student. ''It was Belgium, of all places,'' she said. ''It was like
opening up my eyes to the rest of the world.''

She pursued international relations at Harvard and Oxford, but the other factor
that got her interested in defense policy, she said, was her marriage in 1990 to
W. Scott Gould, a career naval officer who is No. 2 at the Department of
Veterans Affairs.

''Marrying into the military family was a pretty profound experience and gave me
a much greater appreciation for the human dimensions of the institution,'' she
said.

Then, too, there was her father, who served as a bombardier in World War II,
although as a child Ms. Flournoy knew little of his experience. Her parents were
divorced when she was young, and her father died when she was 14. Ms. Flournoy's
mother, who gave up show business after marrying, moved one block inside Beverly
Hills so her children could go to its public schools.

GROWING up, Ms. Flournoy said she heard family talk that her father was
decorated for a war exploit, but ''nobody knew if it was true, and nobody had
seen the medal, and he didn't talk about it, and then he died.'' It was not
until last year that a fellow at the research institution she helped found, the
Center for a New American Security, looked into her father's war record and gave
her documents that told an astonishing tale about one of his missions.

''They were flying a nighttime bombing raid in Germany and the plane was shot up
on coming back, and the co-pilot and pilot were either incapacitated or
unconscious,'' Ms. Flournoy said. ''So there was nobody to land the plane. And
he'd never landed a plane. And he got behind the controls and got talked down
and landed the plane and saved the entire crew.'' He was awarded the
Distinguished Flying Cross, she said.

Ms. Flournoy worked after Balliol as a senior analyst at the Washington-based
Arms Control Association and as a research fellow in nuclear weapons policy at
Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government.

But she made her first big mark on military thinking when she wrote a scathing
report at the Pentagon on the Clinton administration's failures in Somalia in
1993, when 18 American servicemen were killed in the infamous attack retold in a
series of articles for The Philadelphia Inquirer titled ''Black Hawk Down.''

Since then, she has become the mother of three children under the age of 12 and
a mentor to other women at the Pentagon. ''The thing I feel the most is wanting
to do well by the younger women who are counting on me to kind of open doors and
blaze a trail for them,'' Ms. Flournoy said. Although she said she had not
experienced her gender ''as any kind of barrier,'' motherhood appears to have
taken some predictable tolls.

Ms. Flournoy, normally exacting about detail, became sheepish when shefound she
could not remember the title of a book by her bedside. ''I read about five
minutes before I fall asleep,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: MICHELE A. FLOURNOY

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography; Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               43 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 28, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Researchers Create a Mini-Internet to Stalk Botnets

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 715 words


Researchers at Sandia National Laboratories in Livermore, Calif., are creating
what is in effect a vast digital petri dish able to hold one million operating
systems at once in an effort to study the behavior of rogue programs known as
botnets.

Botnets are  used extensively by malicious computer hackers to steal computing
power  from Internet-connected computers. The hackers harness the stolen
resources into a scattered but powerful computer that can be used to  send spam,
execute phishing scams or  steal digital information. These remote-controlled
''distributed computers''  are difficult to observe and track.

Botnets may take over parts of tens of thousands or in some cases even millions
of computers, making them among the world's most powerful computers for some
applications.

''When a forest is on fire you can fly over it, but with a cyberattack you have
no clear idea of what it looks like,'' said Ron Minnich, a Sandia scientist who
specializes in computer security. ''It's an extremely difficult task to get a
global picture.''

To stalk the botnets, Mr. Minnich and his colleague Don Rudish have converted a
Dell supercomputer to simulate a mini-Internet of one million computers.

The researchers said they hoped to be able to infect their digital petri dish
with a botnet in October and then gather data on how the system behaves. One of
the challenges will be in tricking the botnet components into believing they are
running in the open Internet.

Some botnet makers have designed their programs to detect so-called honey pots,
programs that pretend to be computers that can be taken over but which instead
are used to capture and observe botnet clients.

Typically, supercomputers have been designed with the goal of reaching absolute
computing performance, and used for complex scientific or engineering tasks like
modeling the earth's climate, protein folding or simulating nuclear weapons
explosions.

The Sandia computer, which the researchers have named MegaTux, in a reference to
Tux, the penguin character that is the official mascot of the Linux operating
system, is an example of a new kind of computational science, in which computers
are used to simulate scientific instruments that were once used in physical
world laboratories. For example, Microsoft researchers have created a vast
visualization database they call the world wide telescope.

''One of the advantages of such a system is that we can stop the simulation at
any point and look for patterns,'' Mr. Rudish said. ''It's one of the neat
things you can do when you crash a simulation of a 747 on a supercomputer.''

In the past, the researchers said, no one has tried to program a computer to
simulate more than tens of thousands of operating systems.

The Dell Thunderbird supercomputer used for the Sandia project has  4,480 Intel
microprocessors, far fewer than the million operating systems the researchers
sought to simulate. But they used  ''virtual machine''  software technology to
get each microprocessor to simultaneously run many instances of a Linux-based
component called a kernel -- a basic component of an operating system that
manages communications between software and hardware.

Because most botnets are written for the Windows operating system, the
researchers are planning to use an open source program called Wine, making it
possible to run Windows-based programs without actually having the complete
Windows operating system. They said they were not using Windows itself because
of the licensing costs of purchasing one million copies of Windows.

Besides simulating the Internet, Keith Vanderveen, manager of scaleable
computing research at Sandia, said the system would be valuable for exploring
the design of future supercomputers that might have millions rather than
thousands of processors. It will also be invaluable for researchers who are
hoping to design new, more secure protocols for the Internet.

''We will have a test bed where we will be able to try things out at Internet
scale,'' he said.

The researchers said they were collaborating with military contractors who are
developing the National Cyber Range, a project financed by the Pentagon  that is
intended to be a testing ground for defensive techniques and new weapons
developed for cyberwar.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SUPERSIZED: The Dell Thunderbird supercomputer used for the
Sandia National Laboratories botnet project has 4,480 Intel microprocessors.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               44 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 2, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. WEIGHS RISKS OF CIVILIAN HARM IN CYBERWARFARE

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF and THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; CYBERWAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1241 words


It would have been the most far-reaching case of computer sabotage in history.
In 2003, the Pentagon and American intelligence agencies made plans for a
cyberattack to freeze billions of dollars in the bank accounts of Saddam Hussein
and cripple his government's financial system before the United States invaded
Iraq. He would have no money for war supplies. No money to pay troops.

''We knew we could pull it off -- we had the tools,'' said one senior official
who worked at the Pentagon when the highly classified plan was developed.

But the attack never got the green light. Bush administration officials worried
that the effects would not be limited to Iraq but would instead create worldwide
financial havoc, spreading across the Middle East to Europe and perhaps to the
United States.

Fears of such collateral damage are at the heart of the debate as the Obama
administration and its Pentagon leadership struggle to develop rules and tactics
for carrying out attacks in cyberspace.

While the Bush administration seriously studied computer-network attacks, the
Obama administration is the first to elevate cybersecurity -- both defending
American computer networks and attacking those of adversaries -- to the level of
a White House director, whose appointment is expected in coming weeks.

But senior White House officials remain so concerned about the risks of
unintended harm to civilians and damage to civilian infrastructure in an attack
on computer networks that they decline any official comment on the topic. And
senior Defense Department officials and military officers directly involved in
planning for the Pentagon's new ''cybercommand'' acknowledge that the risk of
collateral damage is one of their chief concerns.

''We are deeply concerned about the second- and third-order effects of certain
types of computer network operations, as well as about laws of war that require
attacks be proportional to the threat,'' said one senior officer.

This officer, who like others spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the
classified nature of the work, also acknowledged that these concerns had
restrained the military from carrying out a number of proposed missions.  ''In
some ways, we are self-deterred today because we really haven't answered that
yet in the world of cyber,'' the officer said.

In interviews over recent weeks, a number of current and retired White House
officials, Pentagon civilians and military officers disclosed details of
classified missions -- some only considered and some put into action -- that
illustrate why this issue is so difficult.

Although the digital attack on Iraq's financial system was not carried out, the
American military and its partners in the intelligence agencies did receive
approval to cripple Iraq's military and government communications systems in the
early hours of the war in 2003. And that attack did produce collateral damage.

Besides blowing up cellphone towers and communications grids, the offensive
included electronic jamming and digital attacks against Iraq's telephone
networks. American officials also contacted international communications
companies that provided satellite phone and cellphone coverage to Iraq to alert
them to possible jamming and to ask their assistance in turning off certain
channels.

Officials now acknowledge that the communications offensive temporarily
disrupted telephone service in countries around Iraq that shared its cellphone
and satellite telephone systems. That limited damage was deemed acceptable by
the Bush administration.

Another such event took place in the late 1990s, according to a former military
researcher. The American military attacked a Serbian telecommunications network
and accidentally affected the Intelsat satellite communications system, whose
service was hampered for several days.

These missions, which remain highly classified, are being scrutinized today as
the Obama administration and the Pentagon move into new arenas of
cyberoperations. Few details have been reported previously; mention of the
proposal for a digital offensive against Iraq's financial and banking systems
appeared with little notice on Newsmax.com, a news Web site, in 2003.

The government concerns evoke those at the dawn of the nuclear era, when
questions of military effectiveness, legality and morality were raised about
radiation spreading to civilians far beyond any zone of combat.

''If you don't know the consequences of a counterstrike against innocent third
parties, it makes it very difficult to authorize one,'' said James Lewis, a
cyberwarfare specialist at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
Washington.

But some military strategists argue that these uncertainties have led to excess
caution on the part of Pentagon planners.

''Policy makers are tremendously sensitive to collateral damage by virtual
weapons, but not nearly sensitive enough to damage by kinetic'' -- conventional
-- ''weapons,'' said John Arquilla, an expert in military strategy at the Naval
Postgraduate School in Monterey, Calif. ''The cyberwarriors are held back by
extremely restrictive rules of engagement.''

Despite analogies that have been drawn between biological weapons and
cyberweapons, Mr. Arquilla argues that ''cyberweapons are disruptive and not
destructive.''

That view is challenged by some legal and technical experts.

''It's virtually certain that there will be unintended consequences,'' said
Herbert Lin, a senior scientist at the National Research Council and author of a
recent report on offensive cyberwarfare. ''If you don't know what a computer you
attack is doing, you could do something bad.''

Mark Seiden, a Silicon Valley computer security specialist who was a co-author
of the National Research Council report, said, ''The chances are very high that
you will inevitably hit civilian targets -- the worst-case scenario is taking
out a hospital which is sharing a network with some other agency.''

And while such attacks are unlikely to leave smoking craters, electronic attacks
on communications networks and data centers could have broader, life-threatening
consequences where power grids and critical infrastructure like water treatment
plants are increasingly controlled by computer networks.

Over the centuries, rules governing combat have been drawn together in customary
practice as well as official legal documents, like the Geneva Conventions and
the United Nations Charter. These laws govern when it is legitimate to go to
war, and set rules for how any conflict may be waged.

Two traditional military limits now are being applied to cyberwar:
proportionality, which is a rule that, in layman's terms, argues that if you
slap me, I cannot blow up your house; and collateral damage, which requires
militaries to limit civilian deaths and injuries.

''Cyberwar is problematic from the point of view of the laws of war,'' said Jack
L. Goldsmith, a professor at Harvard Law School. ''The U.N. Charter basically
says that a nation cannot use force against the territorial integrity or
political independence of any other nation. But what kinds of cyberattacks count
as force is a hard question, because force is not clearly defined.''

Computers, indispensable in peace, are becoming ever more important in political
conflicts and open warfare. This article is the seventh in a series examining
the growing use of computer power as a weapon. nytimes.com/cyberwar

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Arquilla, a military strategy expert, said,
''Cyberwarriors are held back by extremely restrictive rules of engagement.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DARRELL MIHO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 James Lewis, a cyberwarfare specialist, urges caution in the use of computer
attacks because of the potential harm to civilians. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN
SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               45 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 6, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Practical Webcam That Sharpens the Picture for You

BYLINE: By STEPHEN WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Personal Tech; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 162 words


The webcam is an accessory that tends to get lost in a computer's great scheme
of things. Because of dicey video quality or complex ''quick setup'' guides, not
all PC owners take advantage of it.

Logitech's new offering, though, offers an enticement few other webcams have:
high-quality images.

The Logitech Webcam Pro 9000, which at $100 sits at the top of a new collection
of seven webcams, employs Carl Zeiss optics. These are the same kind used in
most of Sony's Cyber-Shot digital cameras, ones that sharpen the picture even in
close-ups (and what's a webcam about if not close-ups?).

Another component of the Pro 9000 that makes it a standout is a two-megapixel
sensor, which Logitech says translates into 720p high-definition video.

This combination takes the webcam out of the hook-me-up-for-$9.95 realm of a
neat toy and makes it a usable PC (or Mac) peripheral.

It's designed for desktop monitors, but will clip onto portable screens as well.
STEPHEN WILLIAMS

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               46 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 6, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Underwater Photos? They Can Be a Snap

BYLINE: By RIK FAIRLIE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Personal Tech; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 169 words


You don't have to buy a waterproof camera to go deep. Instead, you can get a
watertight casing for many brands of point-and-shoot models.

I tested a Marine Pack MPK-WE made for the Sony Cyber-shot DSC-W290 (the Marine
Pack is also compatible with other Cyber-shot DSC models). If you don't have a
Sony, similar casings are available for other brands of cameras.

The Marine Pack was engineered for divers and allows the Cyber-shot to be used
at depths as low as 132 feet. You can also use the casing at the pool or beach,
but it's a pretty bulky package compared with waterproof cameras.

The Cyber-shot clamps into the casing with a reassuring snap. The housing has
large buttons that correspond exactly to the buttons on the back of the Cyber
-shot. The shutter release button on top is so large you can't miss it.

Listed at $200, the Marine Pack isn't cheap. But it's a great help if you are a
diver who wants to capture coral reefs, barracuda, angel fish and whatever other
critters may be down there. RIK FAIRLIE

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               47 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 9, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Brittan Heller, Nathaniel Gleicher

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 718 words


Brittan Kathleen Heller and Nathaniel Jurist Gleicher were married Saturday in
Groton, Vt., at the bridegroom's family home. Dr. Gary R. Hopper, an uncle of
the bride's and a Universal Life minister, officiated.

The bride, 27, and bridegroom, 28, have been named Luce Scholars for 2009-2010.
At the end of the month they leave for Seoul, South Korea, where the bride will
specialize in international human rights law and the bridegroom in technology
policy and legislation. They received law degrees from Yale, where they met.

Ms. Heller, who is keeping her name, graduated with distinction from Stanford,
from which she also received a master's in English.

She is a daughter of Helen Vega Heller of Upland, Calif., and Stuart D. Heller
of Tucson, Ariz. The bride's father, who is retired, was a lieutenant with the
Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department and later was the chief of police of
Sahuarita, Ariz. Her mother is the principal of Maxson Elementary School in El
Monte, Calif.

Mr. Gleicher graduated from the University of Chicago. From 2003 to 2005 he was
a Peace Corps volunteer in St. Vincent and the Grenadines, where he taught
computer skills. He is the son of Deborah Jurist and Mark H. Gleicher of Groton,
Vt., who own Mountaine Meadows Pottery in South Ryegate, Vt.

Ms. Heller and Mr. Gleicher first exchanged glances in March 2006 at a student
lounge at Yale, where he, then a prospective law student, was casually chatting
with current students, Ms. Heller among them. He was hoping they would help him
decide whether to attend school there.

Ms. Heller, who already had noticed Mr. Gleicher's green eyes, made the first
move; she said she'd be happy to answer any of his questions.

Mr. Gleicher said he thought she was ''gorgeous'' and immediately sat down with
her for what became a wide-ranging four-hour conversation that included a
discussion of the Peace Corps.

''Everyone thought it was a cushy assignment on a Caribbean beach,'' he said.
But in reality, he told her, in his two years there he found poverty and AIDS,
and wrestled with the area's odd inconsistencies. (People had cellphones and
flat-screen televisions, he said, but often no running water.)

Ms. Heller, in turn, talked about her travels in India and how excited she was
to be going to Tanzania in May for the International Criminal Tribunal for
Rwanda.

''I also kept talking up Yale,'' she said, hoping he would enroll.

Under the pretext of researching local restaurants and neighborhoods, Mr.
Gleicher made frequent trips to New Haven, where he and Ms. Heller went out for
dinner and long walks.

Although it was because of Ms. Heller that he enrolled at Yale, they initially
resisted dating. Nevertheless they found excuses to be around each other. ''He
even joined some of the clubs I worked on,'' she said, including the Latino Law
Student Association, even though he wasn't Hispanic.

Unknown to Mr. Gleicher at the time, however, Ms. Heller was dealing with a very
private pain, having become the target of vicious, anonymous cyber attacks,
which began in the summer of 2005.

As Mr. Gleicher became aware of the attacks, he said he ''spent a lot of time
taking care of her and making sure she was O.K.''

Ms. Heller remembered, ''Several times we tried to go on vacation but were
called away by law enforcement or by lawsuit related distractions.''

Instead of scaring Mr. Gleicher off, he grew ever more impressed with her
determination to put a stop to the cyber campaign.

''She didn't want this to happen to anyone else,'' he said. ''She has this steel
in her spine and she believes so strongly in justice.''

He added, ''We had each other, which helped a lot.'' And having been forced by
events to closely examine the intersection of human rights and technology
brought new focus to their post-law school plans.

The incident made her see how reliable Mr. Gleicher is, Ms. Heller said. She is
also impressed with his fair minded approach to her ongoing battle with cyber
harassment and other situations.

''I saw that he didn't automatically take my side,'' she said. ''He looked at
research and logic. He took everything in, and when in the end he thought I was
in the right, it made me more confidant I had done the right thing by bringing
the suit. He made me trust my judgment.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               48 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 10, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Film Festival in the Cross Hairs

BYLINE: By DAN LEVIN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1240 words

DATELINE: BEIJING


The Chinese flag that defaced the Melbourne International Film Festival's hacked
Web site on July 25 came with a warning: ''We like film but we hate Rebiya
Kadeer! We like peace and we hate East Turkistan terrorist! Please apologize to
all the Chinese people!''

A week later 400 Internet users, many traced to China, knocked out the ticketing
system on the site, melbournefilmfestival.com.au, in a series of attacks that
made it appear as if 125 screenings at the Australian festival were sold out.
The cyber assaults and other actions were a protest against the appearance of
Ms. Kadeer, the Uighur leader, at a screening on Saturday of ''The 10 Conditions
of Love,'' a documentary about her life.

The Chinese government has accused Ms. Kadeer of inciting the ethnic violence
between Muslim Uighurs and Han Chinese in the Xinjiang region of northwest China
that claimed at least 197 lives last month. Ms. Kadeer, who lives in exile in
the United States, has denied any involvement.

Yet the controversy served only to bolster interest in the film and Ms. Kadeer's
appearance. To meet the demand, festival organizers moved the film's sold-out
premiere to the city's 1,500-seat Town Hall, where on Saturday a dozen pro-China
demonstrators were vastly outnumbered by the line of ticketholders waiting to
see the film. Although Ms. Kadeer entered through the back, and the police
intervened between some pro-Chinese-government and pro-Uighur protesters
outside, the screening went smoothly.

Nevertheless the campaign against the festival, which ended Sunday, is raising
concerns among Westerners -- and some Chinese -- over whether the intimidation
will have a lasting effect on global artistic expression as China grows
increasingly assertive on the world stage.

Chinese government officials had demanded that Australia ''immediately correct
its wrongdoings'' by canceling the screening and Ms. Kadeer's visa. When those
requests were ignored, the Chinese government threatened on Friday to sever
Melbourne's sister-city ties with the Chinese city of Tianjin.

Seven Chinese-language films from China, Hong Kong and Taiwan were withdrawn,
their directors saying the festival had become too politicized. One filmmaker,
Tang Xiaobai, said that the Chinese Foreign Ministry and the State
Administration of Radio, Film and Television had alerted her about the Kadeer
film but denied she was forced to boycott the festival, according to China
Daily, the official English-language newspaper.

In Melbourne festival organizers complained of being harassed outside the
organization's offices and receiving a flood of angry e-mail messages and faxes,
including death threats and photos of dead kangaroos. Festival publicists told
of receiving frightening phone calls in the middle of the night.

The festival added security and reported losing about $50,000 because of the
hacking, which prevented patrons from buying tickets. Some members of the
Melbourne City Council, apparently fearful of the potential economic impact of
China's threats, supported banning the film, according to The Age, an Australian
newspaper.

Richard Moore, the festival's executive director, said he worried that the
episode might dissuade other festivals from scheduling films that could offend
Chinese sensibilities.

''They're going to have to think about the issue of self-censorship if they are
more interested in avoiding disagreements with countries like China,'' he said.

Other festivals around the world have already  withdrawn support for the film,
said its director, Jeff Daniels. ''Where does this stop?'' he asked. ''This is
just a film festival. What's next?''

The outrage over the screening follows a wave of activism prompted by riots in
Tibet last year, when many Chinese protested what they saw as rampant anti-China
bias in the Western media. To them inviting Ms. Kadeer to appear so soon after
the blood was washed off the streets of Urumqi amounts to an endorsement of her
alleged role in the violence and an insult to the Chinese people.

Zhou Yu, a 24-year-old computer programmer from Nanjing, said he hacked into the
festival's Web site and defaced it with a Chinese flag to defend his country's
honor. ''The government's protests were useless,'' he said by e-mail. ''It's
patriotic to use my own skills as a common citizen to fight back.''

Mr. Zhou said that while he had not seen ''The 10 Conditions of Love,'' he
believed the film was factually inaccurate. ''This movie distorts history,
confuses and poisons people's minds and impacts national unity,'' he said. His
actions have drawn widespread praise from many Chinese, although there seems to
be little room for divergent views on the matter. On Kaixin, a popular
social-networking Web site here, a recent poll asked visitors to weigh in on Mr.
Zhou's actions but gave only two choices: ''support'' and ''super support.''

The episode throws into sharp relief the deep divide over how many Chinese and
Westerners view artistic expression.

Rebecca MacKinnon, an assistant professor in the University of Hong Kong's
Journalism and Media Studies Center, noted that for generations film, theater
and literature had been little more than tools in the Chinese government's
propaganda arsenal. Many Chinese, she said, simply have no firsthand experience
of uncensored art.

''This is part of a larger argument about whether true creativity and artistic
expression are possible under authoritarian regimes,'' she said.

Such views, of course, are not universal. Zhang Xianmin, a professor at the
Beijing Film Academy, said it was ''ridiculous'' that Chinese directors pulled
their films from the festival. ''Film is a way to share and communicate ideas,''
he said.

But film is also a business, one that is becoming increasingly lucrative in
China, even if the government strictly controls which movies make it to the
screen and often censors their content.

According to official data the box-office take here grew an average of 25
percent annually during the past five years. Last year ticket sales soared by 30
percent to about $629 million.

For filmmakers dependent on the booming mainland market, which includes those
from Hong Kong and Taiwan, the prospect of financial ruin may be reason enough
to heed the government's expectations.

''If you were a Chinese director whose films could live or die by approval of
the film bureau, and it took the trouble of bringing this to your attention,''
said Jonathan Landreth, The Hollywood Reporter's Beijing correspondent,  ''would
you not connect the dots?''

Other film festivals are watching the events in Melbourne closely, although many
organizers said the uproar would have no impact on their selections. ''Film
festivals are a way to encourage discussion and make people aware of what's
happening in the world,'' Mark Fishkin, executive director of the Mill Valley
Film Festival in California, said.

Last year the Chinese government asked Mr. Fishkin to remove the film ''Fire
Under the Snow,'' a documentary about a Tibetan monk who was imprisoned in China
for 33 years, from the festival lineup. He refused.

While China will most likely continue to pressure festivals and filmmakers, Mr.
Fishkin said he hopes such efforts backfire. ''The Chinese could receive so much
negative publicity over this that as a member of world community it may just not
be worth it,'' he said. ''But I may just be playing the optimist.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Supporters of the Uighur leader Rebiya Kadeer at the Town Hall
in Melbourne, where Ms. Kadeer was visiting a film festival on Saturday. Others
protested Ms. Kadeer's appearance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID CROSLING/ASSOCIATED
PRESS)
 Rebiya Kadeer speaking Saturday at the Melbourne premiere of a film about her
life. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL CROCK/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               49 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 13, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

From Slim Cameras, Improved Photos in Low Light

BYLINE: By RIK FAIRLIE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Personal Tech; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 172 words


Sony claims to have solved a problem we all grapple with: getting good photos in
low light without resorting to an ambience-killing flash. The company announced
two Cyber-shot point-and-shoot cameras with  low-light sensors that it said
would deliver sharp images -- bright lighting not necessary.

The two new Cyber-shots, the $380 DSC-TX1 and the $350 DSC-WX1, deliver better
light sensitivity because of Sony's Exmor R back-illuminated sensor, first
available on the  DSC-HX1.

The WX1 will probably deliver better low-light images than the TX1 because the
lens will let in a lot more light.  Despite that, the TX1 costs a bit more
because it includes a larger 3-inch touch-screen LCD and a snazzier, slimmer
(0.65-inch) design. The WX1 is svelte at 0.80 inch, but its design is
utilitarian. Both Cyber-shots include Sony's Sweep Panorama and 10
frames-per-second burst shooting features.

The TX1 will arrive in stores in silver, gray, pink or blue this September. The
WX1 will come dressed in black a month later. RIK FAIRLIE

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               50 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 18, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sony Relies On Humor To Counter A Grim Mood

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 923 words


AH, the great comedy teams of history: Laurel and Hardy ... Burns and Allen ...
Abbott and Costello ... Manning and Timberlake.

Manning and Timberlake? As in the football star Peyton Manning  and the singer
Justin Timberlake?  Yes, according to a humorous campaign for electronics
products sold by Sony.

Mr. Manning, the Indianapolis Colts quarterback, and Mr. Timberlake -- of 'N
Sync, ''Saturday Night Live'' and digital shorts too salacious to describe here
-- are being paired as a comic duo in the campaign, which the Sony Electronics
division of the Sony Corporation of America is to formally announce on Tuesday.

Although the campaign, by the Los Angeles office of an agency named 180, takes a
light-hearted tack, the rationale behind it is no laughing matter: to stimulate
demand during the worst recession in decades for products like camcorders,
digital books, TV sets, Blu-ray disc players, notebook computers and cameras.

As marketers and retailers gear up for the crucial holiday shopping season, all
signs point to continued sluggish sales for discretionary purchases like
electronics. The most recent disappointment came last week, when the Commerce
Department reported that retail sales in July declined by a seasonally adjusted
0.1 percent from a month earlier; forecasters had predicted an increase of 0.7
percent.

Among the categories in which consumers spent less money last month was, yes,
electronics.

''The more we keep Sony top of mind, the better we feel we will weather this
economic situation and be better prepared when we come out of it for growth,''
said Stuart Redsun,  senior vice president for marketing at Sony Electronics in
San Diego.

That is why the division decided to expand a campaign from last fall, he added,
which featured athletes like Mr. Manning promoting the Bravia line of TV sets,
to include other types of Sony merchandise and the Sony brand itself.

''Our brand, being a premium brand, has stood for the highest quality,'' Mr.
Redsun said, ''and there's a perceived value in that'' during a downturn.

''When people buy something from Sony, they know it's going to last,'' he added.
''That resonates with them when dollars are harder to come by.''

The lineup of endorsers has been expanded beyond Mr. Manning to add celebrities
who are experts in other fields in which Sony sells products. For instance, Dion
Beebe,  a cinematographer who won an Academy Award for the movie ''Memoirs of a
Geisha,'' promotes Sony Blu-ray disc players as ''the best way'' to enjoy movies
in high definition.

(In a bit of corporate synergy, ''Memoirs'' was released by Columbia Pictures,
part of the Sony Pictures Entertainment unit of Sony.)

The actress and comedian Amy Sedaris  appears on behalf of Sony Reader digital
books. Nigel Barker,  a photographer who is a judge on the reality TV series
''America's Next Top Model,'' speaks up for Sony digital cameras like the Alpha
and Cyber-shot.

Mr. Manning returns to promote Bravia high-definition TV sets as the best on
which to watch high-definition sports. He is joined by Erin Andrews,  a reporter
for the ESPN cable channel owned by the Walt Disney Company.

As for Mr. Timberlake, he is on hand to extol the virtues of Sony products for
entertainment purposes, among them TV sets, Vaio notebook computers and cameras.
He, too, has a previous Sony connection, in that he records for Jive Records,
part of Sony Music Entertainment.

Mr. Timberlake and Mr. Manning are to be teamed up in the television commercials
that are part of the campaign, which will start in September and run through
early next year. The spots all depict shoppers in stores asking panels of Sony
experts questions about product features and choices. Some replies are serious,
others silly.

For instance, in a commercial for Bravia, Mr. Timberlake, seated at a table with
other Sony experts, declares, ''The more sports you watch on a Sony, the better
you get at sports.'' He and Mr. Manning seek to demonstrate that by playing a
pick-up game of Ping-Pong.

As they bat the ball back and forth, Mr. Manning says, in Chinese, ''My Chinese
has improved, too.'' Mr. Timberlake offers a poker-faced riposte, also in
Chinese: ''Your Mandarin is shaky at best.''

In another commercial, a shopper expresses skepticism about Mr. Timberlake's
ability to recommend cameras and camcorders.

''Really?'' Mr. Timberlake replies as paparazzi emerge from all corners of the
store, intent on capturing his image. Mr. Manning joins in, taking a photograph
of himself seated next to Mr. Timberlake.

''Justin, Peyton and the rest lend credibility, and a lot of entertainment
value,'' said William Gelner,  executive creative director at 180 Los Angeles,
part of the 180 division of the Omnicom Group.

''It's tough out there,'' he said of the economy. ''That's why we did the
campaign, the reason it exists: to give people a clear reason to choose Sony.''

The media schedule for the campaign is also being expanded from last year, Mr.
Gelner said, when TV spots predominated. In addition to television, there will
be print ads, radio spots, online video clips and banner ads, materials in
stores and content on the Sony retail Web site (sonystyle.com). The budget is
estimated at $70 million to $80 million.

The campaign is the first to feature Ms. Andrews of ESPN since the extensive
publicity she received last month after video clips surfaced online from a tape
made surreptitiously of her, undressed, in a hotel room. Mr. Redsun said she
would remain part of the campaign.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peyton Manning, far left, in an unlikely game of table tennis
with Justin Timberlake in a sports-themed commercial for Sony products.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               51 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                          September 9, 2009 Wednesday

Photographs of Khalid Shaikh Mohammed at Guantnamo Appear Online

BYLINE: ROBERT MACKEY

LENGTH: 592 words



HIGHLIGHT: On Wednesday, a former West Point terrorism expert who monitors
jihadist Web sites published what appear to be the first photographs of Khalid
Shaikh Mohammed, the self-described planner of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks, at the Guantanamo Bay detention camp in Cuba.


On Wednesday, Jarret Brachman, a former West Point terrorism expert who monitors
jihadist Web sites, published images on his blog that appear to be the first
photographs of Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, the self-described planner of the Sept.
11, 2001, terrorist attacks, at the Guantanamo Bay detention camp in Cuba.

Mr. Brachman, who was director of research at West Point's Center for Combating
Terrorism from 2004 to 2008, made this image available to The Lede and explained
that the photographs were spotted last week on jihadist Web sites by a fellow "
cyber monitor," Leah Farrell.

Mr. Brachman's first post also included images of Mr. Mohammed's nephew, Ammar
al-Baluchi, at Guantanamo. Later in the day, he uploaded a second photograph
that also appears to show Mr. Mohammed.

Carol Rosenberg of The Miami Herald, who alerted The Lede to the photographs,
reported on Wednesday:

Pentagon officials at the U.S. Navy base in Cuba have flatly forbidden media
access to the camp for former CIA captives and have likewise only permitted an
approved court sketch artist to draw Mohammed and his four fellow accused 9/11
plotters during military commissions proceedings at their complex conspiracy,
death-penalty case.

The pictures were taken in July, said International Committee of the Red Cross
spokesman Bernard Barrett, under an agreement with prison camp staff that lets
Red Cross delegates photograph detainees and send photos to family members.

Mr. Mohammed, who holds a degree in mechanical engineering from North Carolina
A&T, is the uncle of Ramzi Yousef, the mastermind of the 1993 World Trade Center
bombings.

The new images of Mr. Mohammed are the first photographs of him to come to light
since March 1, 2003, when he was captured in a raid in Pakistan and photographed
looking disheveled and beardless. My colleague Scott Shane reported in April
that Mr. Mohammed was waterboarded 183 times in the month after his capture.

In an Op-Ed in The Times this week, Ali H. Soufan, a former F.B.I. interrogator,
argued that the use of so-called enhanced interrogation techniques on Mr.
Mohammed may have hampered the effort to capture top leaders of Al Qaeda. Mr.
Soufan noted that Mr. Mohammed "told the International Committee of the Red
Cross that 'I gave a lot of false information in order to satisfy what I
believed the interrogators wished to hear.'"

On Dec. 8, 2008, Mr. Mohammed, along with four co-defendants, sent a note to a
military judge at Guantanamo asking to confess and to plead guilty.

*

A New Way to Comment

Today The Lede is rolling out a new interface for reader comments, one that has
already been adopted, and explained,  by my colleague Andrew Revkin at Dot
Earth. Eventually all New York Times blogs will use this new interface, which
gives readers the ability to recommend comments and sort them in several ways.

As Mr. Revkin explained when his blog went through the same looking glass: "As
with all change, there are some features that may not thrill everyone. One
potential downside, for some out there: All comment contributors will need to be
registered Times readers. Keep in mind that registration is free, quick and
non-invasive." You only need to register one time to comment for a lifetime and,
as our privacy policy states, "NYTimes.com will never share your e-mail address
without your permission."


     ·    U.S. Interrogated 'Hostile' Bin Laden Wives
     ·    Updates on the Killing of Bin Laden, May 4
     ·    Updates on Bin Laden's Death, May 2
     ·    New Report on Daniel Pearl's Murder Reveals Forensic Analysis of
          Killer's Veins
     ·    A New Focus on Cargo Security


LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               52 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 10, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

One Man and His Ugly Shoes

BYLINE: By MICHELLE SLATALLA.

E-mail: slatalla@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; WIFE/MOTHER/WORKER/SPY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 971 words


MY husband is wearing ugly shoes. Very ugly shoes.

At first, I didn't notice. He had just returned from a business trip to New
York, and there he stood, next to my desk, beaming.

''What?'' I asked. ''Is there something in my hair?''

He said nothing. Just kept smiling. He looked very happy.

''What's wrong?'' I asked.

''Nothing,'' he said, still smiling. Then he stuck out a toe and started
stroking my calf.

I shrieked and recoiled in terror. ''Oh, my God, what is that you're wearing?''
I asked. His feet were sheathed in some kind of creepy black rubberized
gorilla-feet things. ''Is that a Halloween costume?''

''They're new,'' he said. ''It's special ergonomic technology to simulate the
experience of walking barefoot.'' He had bought them after reading a book on the
airplane about an isolated tribe of Mexican Indians who can run hundreds of
miles barefoot.

He stopped briefly to lift a foot and give it a loving gaze, before adding in an
awestruck tone, ''They'll make me run faster in marathons.''

''You've never run a marathon in your life,'' I said.

''Well, now I can if I want to,'' he said. Then, as he left the room, he called:
''You should try them, too. They're supposed to be good for lower back pain.''

I was not completely surprised by this sartorial twist. My husband has a history
of making disturbing fashion choices. This dates at least to when I met him in
the mid-1980s. He favored striped knit ties in those days.

I waited that one out, but it was followed by the era of the ponytail (circa
1994) and then an awkward cyber-geek eyeglasses period (1995-2000).

But gorilla shoes? (2009-??) I am not  Dian Fossey.

Suddenly, a new and terrible thought occurred to me. Where was he lumbering off
to, wearing those things? Surely he wasn't thinking of leaving the house. ...

Part of me hoped -- wanted desperately to believe, in fact -- that he had just
gone to stand in front of a full-length mirror. I imagined him admiring his
sudden but striking resemblance to a hairy plant-eating primate who was in the
process of rebuilding toe muscles weakened by decades of wearing sneakers.
(''Our feet have atrophied,'' he lectured, sternly. ''Not mine,'' I said.)

But another part of me suspected worse.

''Wait,'' I called after him. ''You're not going outside in those, are you?''

In the distance, I heard a door slam.

Perhaps no one would see him and he would move through this devastating period
quickly. There was a slim chance, after all, that he was wearing them only for
work. As a tech reviewer with a broad mandate, he often tries out weird things
for a week or two. Like Spanx for men. He did that recently, enSpanxed under his
favorite black T-shirt -- the one silk-screened with a rat drawn by Ed Roth,
known as Big Daddy -- and then life returned to normal.

But what if this was a symptom of something bigger? Something midlife-y?

There is a sort of man -- perhaps you know one, maybe you've even been married
to one for, say, 21 years -- who seems at first glance to be outwardly unfazed
by the onset of middle age. Even as many of his friends and colleagues start to
exhibit the classic signs of a crisis -- a two-seater convertible, dyed hair, or
a sudden and inexplicable interest in surfing -- this sort of man continues on,
blithely and dependably, going to work, walking the dogs, making you coffee in
the morning.

But then one day, you look closer. And you see he's making a fashion statement
that might actually be a telegram from the heart: ''Help me,'' it says.
''Stop.'' Had he sprouted a goatee or a mustache, or come home with a Sanskrit
tattoo, I would have known immediately.

Of course, the science of Midlife-Crisis Detection is complicated in California,
where I live, by our proximity to Hawaii. Many middle-aged men here veer
tragically toward garish floral shirts (I'm not sure why I used the word
''garish'' there, because it's redundant). You see a middle-aged man walking
around in, say, Trenton, wearing a Hawaiian shirt and you know what you're
dealing with. But here? The wearer could simply be yet another blissed-out
California dude.

Thankfully, my husband doesn't own any Hawaiian shirts. He prefers guayaberas.
The shirts are harmless, I guess, though sometimes he is mistaken for a dentist.

But at this moment I would have given anything for him to walk back into the
room dressed like an orthodontist instead of wearing an obvious midlife crisis
on his feet. In public.

Twenty minutes later, he returned, whistling.

''Where have you been?'' I demanded.

''I went to the market to buy stuff for dinner,'' he said. ''And boy, do my feet
feel great. I can practically feel my arches rebuilding with every step I take
in these babies.''

''Never mind that,'' I said, drawing the blinds. ''Did anyone see you?''

He thought for a minute.

''Well, that guy who walks everywhere was there, and he came up to me to ask
about the shoes,'' he said. ''And then, when I got to the checkout, I saw
Stephanie -- -- ''

''Not the Stephanie who lives across the street?'' I whispered, the blood
draining from my face. She is my fashion idol.

''When she saw my shoes, she shrieked that I looked like a gorilla and she kind
of jumped back -- -- ''

''You mean she recoiled in terror,'' I said, correcting him.

''And then she said, really loudly, 'Does Michelle know you're wearing those?'
''

I sat down. I covered my face with my hands.

''And then,'' he continued happily, ''the clerk got really excited. I think
everybody's going to be wearing them soon.''

He started beaming again. And I looked into his eyes, deeply, and saw the man I
married 21 years ago. Knit ties, cyber-eyeglasses, gorilla shoes. Yeah, it was
definitely the same guy.

''Sweetie?'' he asked.

''Yes?'' I said.

''They come in women's sizes.''

''Don't push it,'' I said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HADLEY HOOPER)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               53 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 15, 2009 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Tip of the Week: Free Antivirus Software

BYLINE: By J. D. BIERSDORFER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Q & A; Pg.

LENGTH: 86 words


October is National Cybersecurity Awareness Month, and the Department of
Homeland Security (dhs.gov/cyber) recommends running antivirus software on your
PC to protect it. Plenty of programs offer to defend your Windows PC from
viruses, spyware and other malicious code roaming the Internet. But if money is
tight, you don't have to do without: AVG Free (free.avg.com), Avast Home Edition
(avast.com) and Microsoft Security Essentials
(microsoft.com/Security--Essentials) are all available to download free of
charge.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               54 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 15, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Getting FLAC To Travel

BYLINE: By J. D. BIERSDORFER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Personal Tech; Q & A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 621 words


Q.Do any portable MP3 players support music files in the FLAC format?

A. While popular players like the Apple iPod and the Microsoft Zune HD do not
naturally play files in the open-source FLAC (Free Lossless Audio Codec) format,
you can still find plenty of portable music players out there that do. Samsung,
SanDisk, iRiver and Cowon are among the companies that make players that support
FLAC and other less common audio formats like Ogg Vorbis as well.

Thanks to compression technology meant specifically for audio, FLAC is gaining
fans for its higher-quality sound compared with other digital formats. The
''lossless'' part of the acronym means that audio is encoded with no loss of
data; other formats like MP3, WMA, AAC and Ogg Vorbis discard bits of data to
compress the original audio track into a smaller file size.

The FLAC project page has much more information at flac.sourceforge.net, as well
as a list of other hardware devices that can play FLAC files. For those new to
FLAC, the Live Music section of the Internet Archive has plenty of free samples
of music in the format at archive.org/details/etree.

It is also possible to tinker with certain MP3 players to get them to play FLAC
files. For example, the open-source Rockbox firmware (rockbox.org) brings FLAC
support to a variety of  portables, including some older iPod models.

Installing Rockbox, however, probably voids any warranty you may have  on the
MP3 player and should be used at your own risk. If this doesn't bother you, the
Rockbox site has all the software and detailed instructions you need to install
it.

A New Life

For Old Drives

Q.I soon plan to upgrade the hard drive in my laptop to a bigger size. What
should I do with the old drive?

A. Storing the drive on a shelf or smashing it up with a hammer are two options,
but you can also give it a new life as an external hard drive for backup or
extra storage. All you need is a hard drive enclosure kit.

An enclosure is basically a new outer shell that protects the drive, since it is
no longer tucked away inside the computer. The enclosure also supplies the drive
with ports for power and cables so it can be connected externally to the
computer with a U.S.B. or eSATA cable. The eHow.com site gives a rundown of the
process at bit.ly/3wvNdp.

Enclosures are available in all shapes and styles, and they come in models for
the 3.5-inch hard drives usually found in desktop computers or the 2.5-inch
drives used in laptops; make sure you get one that is compatible with your old
hard drive.

Prices start at about $10, and most kits usually include cables and installation
instructions. You can find enclosures at computer parts sites like
ultraproducts.com, tigerdirect.com and newegg.com.

If you plan to install the new hard drive yourself, you can also find upgrade
kits that provide an enclosure, cables and software to transfer all your data
over to the new, larger hard drive before you turn the old one into an external
model.

TIP OF THE WEEK October is National Cybersecurity Awareness Month, and the
Department of Homeland Security (dhs.gov/cyber) recommends running antivirus
software on your PC to protect it. Plenty of programs offer to defend your
Windows PC from viruses, spyware and other malicious code roaming the Internet.
But if money is tight, you don't have to do without: AVG Free (free.avg.com),
Avast Home Edition (avast.com) and Microsoft Security Essentials
(microsoft.com/Security--Essentials) are all available to download free of
charge. J. D. BIERSDORFER

Personal Tech invites questions about computer-based technology to
QandA@nytimes.com This column will answer questions of general interest, but
letters cannot be answered individually.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               55 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 22, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Budget, No Boundaries: It's the Real You

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1453 words


IT may be raining pink slips, some people hard-pressed to make the rent much
less splash out on a pagoda shoulder jacket from Balmain, but Vixie Rayna seems
not to be feeling the pinch. Not a month goes by in which she isn't spending as
much as $50,000 on housing, furniture or her special weakness: multistrap
platform sandals, tricked out in feathers and beads.

Recession or no, Ms. Rayna isn't reining in her fantasies, or her expenditures
-- at least not in the virtual world. In a simulated universe like There.com,
IMVU.com or Second Life.com, the granddaddy of avatar-driven social networking
sites, Ms. Rayna, an avatar on Second Life, and her free-spending cohort can
quaff Champagne, teleport to private islands and splurge on luxury brands that
are the cyber equivalent of Prada waders or a Rolex watch. Real-world consumers
may have snapped shut their wallets. But in these lavishly appointed realms it
is still 2007, and conspicuous consumption is all the rage.

''Throughout the recession we actually saw an increase in spending,'' said Mike
Wilson, the chief executive of There.com, an avatar-based social arena. That's
because the wares are relatively inexpensive.

In most virtual worlds, memberships are free, but players trade real money for
virtual currencies, used to buy products, save up in an account or eventually
redeem for real money. About 70,000 Therebucks on There.com, or 10,000 Lindens
in Second Life, each about $40, can buy a choice of simulated wares, from
several pairs of thigh-high boots to a plot of land. What's more, as Mr. Wilson
pointed out: ''Everything fits; things don't wear out. The virtual world
represents a different value proposition.''

In their day-to-day lives, shoppers like Mandy Cocke, Vixie Rayna's real-life
alter ego, have sharply trimmed their spending. When times were flush, Ms.
Cocke, a nurse in Virginia, parted with as much as $1,000 a month on designer
shoes and clothing. Lately, though, ''pretty much every possible expense makes
me ask, 'Do I really need this?' '' she said.

But online, their acquisitive lust rages unabated, fueling a robust economy
driven mostly by avatar-to-avatar transactions estimated at between $1 billion
and $2 billion a year in real dollars. Second Life, the most successful and most
familiar of such sites, does not disclose retail revenues. But it reported a 94
percent surge in its overall economy in this year's second quarter over the same
period a year ago.

While industry analysts say that per capita expenditures on virtual goods have
remained roughly the same throughout the recession, aggregate spending has
spiked as more and more users discover these 3-D animated realms. A
proliferation of new sites, games and the release of films like ''Surrogates,''
about avatarlike robots who boast wardrobes and ripped physiques that their
operators in the movie could never hope to attain, have piqued a new wave of
interest in virtual worlds. In them visitors can fashion a fancy identity, rub
shoulders with other virtual glitterati and snap up temptations in a marketplace
made entirely of pixels.

''A year or two ago virtual goods were a quirky little corner of the online
world,'' said Dan Jansen, a partner in Virtual Greats, which sells simulated
representations of branded fashions like Rocawear in the online community. ''Now
it's mainstream.''

That little corner is expanding, suggested Tom Hale, the chief product officer
for Second Life. Mr. Hale said that roughly 250,000 items are created daily by
residents using a built-in modeling tool or outside graphics program to
construct 3-D objects to sell in the virtual marketplace.

Networks like Gaia, Wee World and Club Penguin, on which children and teenagers
can buy goods for points or cash, also do well but cannot compete in the luxury
arena with adult sites, which typically draw members ages 25 to 50. ''These are
the same people who buy luxury items in real life,'' said George Fletcher, a
London-based consultant to virtual worlds like Moove. And though most have
curbed their real-world spending, he said, ''they remain exceedingly brand
conscious.'' Indeed, their growing avidity for simulated designer wares has made
fashion the chief beneficiary of virtual boom times.

Jonty Glaser, a partner in Stiletto Moody, a Second Life shoe brand, declined to
provide figures, but said sales had ''definitely grown since the recession
began.'' Mr. Glaser noted that ''as fewer people travel or spend on
entertainment, we have seen them focus online and accelerate purchases.'' Their
indulgence in small-ticket purchases or micro-transactions have made Second Life
''a recession-tolerant economy,'' he said.

Clothing and accessories account for about 40 percent of the overall virtual
marketplace in Second Life, Mr. Hale said, and roughly 20 percent of its
economy, which also encompasses land, luxury homes, private jets and rents or
services. One reason is that fashion -- to say nothing of hairstyles and
''skins'' in tones like cream, butterscotch and ebony -- represents the cheapest
way to show off caviar tastes and burnish one's image.

It also provides entertainment. Style-struck cybervixens can shop at virtual
stores on Xstreet, Second Life's e-commerce platform, leaf through fashion
magazines, check out blogs or grab a front row seat at online runway shows.
There is even a weekly talk program, ''Fabulous Fashion With Angie Mornington,''
broadcast on Treet TV, Second Life's television network, which draws nearly
15,000 viewers an episode, said Ludele Tompkins, Ms. Mornington's creator.

Ms. Tompkins, who works for a media company in New York, does not stint on
dresses for Ms. Mornington to wear ''on the air.'' Online, ''the first thing you
want to do is dress your avatar,'' Ms. Tompkins said. ''Just like in a video
game, it helps create your character.''

Visiting and building an identity on social networks like Second Life is ''kind
of like when people in the last recession used to watch 'Lifestyles of the Rich
and Famous' on television,'' said Eric Spangenberg, a consumer psychologist and
the dean of the business school at Washington State University. ''It's the
newest manifestation of how people live vicariously: if I can't afford a
Bentley, my avatar can.''

Nor is that avatar bound by other real-life constraints. ''In the real world, we
may not be invited to a party at the embassy, but our avatar will,'' Dr.
Spangenberg said. What's more, she can swathe herself in satin and lynx, festoon
her neck in diamonds and sapphires, secure in the knowledge, he said, ''that she
will always have a place to wear them.'' And to bask in their virtual glow. Even
in those fantasy realms, luxuries can confer status. ''People get some kind of
satisfaction or kudos from showing the power of their latest watch or car,'' Mr.
Fletcher noted.

Small wonder then, that virtual worlds seem to be breeding a generation of high
rollers, who, for fees that rarely exceed the cost of a few Netflix rentals or a
monthly utility bill, can acquire an online persona that is unassailably chic.

Certainly her real-world occupation as a nurse affords Ms. Cocke scant
opportunity ''to rock my new leather Gucci messenger bag or Jimmy Choo
sandals,'' she said. In contrast, ''Vixie's style is a better representation of
my true self,'' she said, ''as it's hard to be fashionable in hospital scrubs.''

In these lean times, who but an avatar could amass the sheer volume of
extravagant frocks, kinky footwear, leather biker jackets and lacy lingerie such
online aficionados obsessively collect? Ms. Tompkins, 37, a k a Ms. Mornington,
lives in Brooklyn and is ''on a budget like everyone else in the city.'' Online,
however, she has an inventory that Beyonce might envy -- some 40,000 items
including shoes, handbags and other extras. ''Hair is very important -- I have
tons of it,'' she said, noting that Ms. Mornington often sports a glossy Afro
''on the air.''

In her day job as freelance office manager near Amsterdam, Caroline Hanekamp,
39, dresses conservatively and watches her pocketbook, limiting splurges to an
occasional trip to the hair salon. Come evening, though, her Second Life alter
ego, Grazia Horwitz, is a shameless spendthrift. ''A couple of times a week I go
hunting,'' said Ms. Hanekamp, who owns about 60 pairs of virtual boots, part of
an inventory that she says ''would make Imelda Marcos jealous.''

She sees no reason to compromise her cyberstyle. ''My shopping habit is
outrageous,'' confided Ms. Hanekamp, who maintains a virtual fashion blog. ''I
collect pumps, boots, all sorts of regular classical shoes -- the more the
merrier. And if I see something really cute, I want it in all the colors.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: JUST MY SIZE: Sites like Second Life invite cybervixens to shop
at boutiques, leaf through fashion magazines, or attend runway shows. (pg. E1)
THE HOST: Angie Mornington, an avatar on Second Life, has a weekly online talk
show about fashion.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LINDEN RESEARCH)
THE STYLE: The show, ''Fabulous Fashion With Angie Mornington,'' draws nearly
15,000 viewers a week.
 THE VIEWERS: Even the program's audience members are chic, owing to the
affordability of online fashion.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHARRON SCHUMAN)(pg. E7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               56 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                            October 23, 2009 Friday

News of Iran's Detained 'Blogfather'

BYLINE: ROBERT MACKEY

LENGTH: 1260 words



HIGHLIGHT: After a long silence, there is suddenly news on the fate of Hossein
Derakhshan, an influential Iranian blogger with Canadian citizenship who was
detained in Tehran almost a year ago.


After a long silence, there is suddenly news on the fate of Hossein Derakhshan,
an influential Iranian blogger with Canadian citizenship who was detained in
Tehran almost a year ago.

As The Lede reported in a post on Mr. Derakhshan's case in May, he is known in
Iran as "the Blogfather," because he helped to popularize blogging in the
country by making it possible to write posts in Persian characters. A profile in
Wired magazine explained that he moved to Canada in 2000, "after conservative
judicial authorities shut down Asr-e Azadegan, the reformist newspaper where he
was a daily tech columnist."

As Wired noted, it was while he was living in Toronto in 2001 that he "figured
out a way to combine Unicode and Blogger.com's free tools to handle Persian
characters." This technical advance meant that "suddenly, blogging in Persian
was as simple as it is in English."

In 2003, The Guardian wrote that Mr. Derakhshan's "step-by-step guide to
creating a Persian weblog should take much of the credit for inspiring thousands
of Iranians to start their own blogs."

After Mr. Derakhshan made the daring decision to visit Israel in 2006, and blog
about the trip in both Persian and English, he acknowledged that it might be
hard for him to ever return to Iran. In 2008, when he did decide to move back to
Iran after eight years in Canada and Britain, he was arrested within weeks and
charged with spying for Israel.

For months afterward, little was heard about his case. Some conspiracy-minded
observers even suggested, purely because his blogging before his arrest had to
some extent supported President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, that he might have gone to
work for the regime. But as several of Mr. Derakhshan's friends and supporters
protested in July when The Lede mentioned that this theory had been embraced by
some Iranian bloggers during the crackdown by the Iraian government on
dissidents using the Web, there seems to be no evidence to support the claim.

We should add that Mojtaba Saminejad, an Iranian blogger interviewed twice by
The Lede in recent months -- who is still working inside the country -- reports
that Mr. Derakhshan is still being held in the notorious Evin prison in Tehran.

Last Saturday, the group Human Rights Activists in Iran, which has been a
reliable source of information on events in the country, published a report --
available in English as well as Persian -- on what it describes as the very
difficult conditions of Mr. Derakhshan's detention.

The human rights group wrote:

HRA has received reports which suggest that the blogger, Hossein Derakhshan, who
was arrested on Nov. 2, 2008, has spent the first eight months of his detention
in solitary confinement and different wards of the Evin prison upon his return
to Iran. During that time he has been subjected to various physical and
psychological pressure tactics and multiple transfers.

He has been beaten repeatedly and has been forced to do squats in cold showers.
His interrogators have threatened to arrest his father and his sister unless he
confessed to espionage charges. With the start of the massive arrests after the
presidential election, and as result of cell shortages in Evin prison,
Derakhshan was transferred to Ward 2A of the IRGC prison, where he shared his
cell with newly arrested people.

Derakhshan has been given false promises of his release on multiple occasions:
During the Fajr celebrations and Norooz. Despite all the promises he is still
being held on a temporary detention order. His detention order has been renewed
several times, the last of which expired on October 10th, 2009. Derakhshan
reportedly intended to start a hunger strike if his situation remained unchanged
after this date. HRA has no information as to whether he has started the hunger
strike.

During his detention, Derakhshan has been pressured by his interrogators to
collaborate and confess to the charges brought up against him. Last September he
was taken to court to sign documents granting permission to his lawyer to
represent him. He told the judge that all his confessions had come under
pressure. According to the reports received by HRA, Derakhshan had agreed to
televised confessions under pressure, but the matter was canceled after one
recording.

On Wednesday, Cyrus Farivar, a California-based journalist and blogger, reported
that Mr. Derakhshan's father, Hassan Derakhshan, had written a letter to the new
head of Iran's judiciary, which was published online by a reformist newspaper.

Here is a translation of the letter from Mr. Farivar's blog:

To the Presence of Ayatollah Amoli Larijani, the Respected Head of the
Judiciary:

Greetings and respect to you. One year has passed since the day that my son was
arrested.

In all these months, days, and hours, my family, my wife and I were hoping that
in the arms of Islamic law and the mercy of the Islamic judiciary, Hossein's
case will be dealt with in the way it deserves.

There is no need to mention the numerous times that we refused the requests of
foreign media to explain Hossein's situation.

Even when we heard the worst gossip about his treatment in semi-official media,
we were silent and in fact, no government organization has ever denied this
worrisome news, not just to calm our very worried hearts down, but at least to
respect the independence of judiciary about this case.

During this entire time, our son has had just two short meetings with us for
only a few minutes. Please imagine that for every six months we just saw him for
very few minutes. We have no information about his legal situation.

No court has been held yet and we don't even know which institution or security
organization Hossein is under the control of. Many times, from many different
ways, we tried to get some precision about his situation, but we couldn't. Does
a detainee's dignified manner deserve such treatment?

Many times, my son admitted in his writings and conversations that he would love
to serve his country. And he came back to Iran on his own to answer his
accusations. Does such a person who has come back to his country and his
beliefs, deserve such a welcome?

Our complaint is not because you are exercising the law, but to the contrary,
because of its suspension, lack of information and disrespecting of the law. The
accused have rights, the family of the accused has some rights, and we know that
the ruler of society has some rights as well, and that rules and regulations are
valuable.

We are certain that you'd agree that one year of a brutal arrest of a person who
has come voluntarily and on his own to the bosom of Iran and dear Islam, is not
an appropriate welcome.

I, my wife and our family are still looking forward to your just treatment.

With respect,

Hassan Derakhshan

If readers who follow Iranian blogs spot any more news of Mr. Derakhshan, please
let us know about it.  In the meantime, while Iranian bloggers who support the
country's opposition movement live in fear of arrest, the Web site Global Voices
notes that they are gradually being joined in the Persian-language blogosphere
by more government agents. This week, Global Voices spotted an announcement by
supporters of the regime on the Web site Sepah News that the "Iranian
Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) announced that more than 40 blogs have been
created to struggle against IRGC's enemies on cyber space."


     ·    Ahmadinejad Was Slapped by General, Leaked Cable Says
     ·    An Iranian Director's Impassioned Defense
     ·    Beirut Festival Pulled Film to Spare Ahmadinejad's Feelings
     ·    Iranian Opposition Leaders Call Off Protest
     ·    Tehran Students Protest Ahmadinejad Visit


LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               57 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 27, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Old Trick Threatens The Newest Weapons

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; CYBERWAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1519 words


Despite a six-year effort to build trusted computer chips for military systems,
the Pentagon now manufactures in secure facilities run by American companies
only about 2 percent of the more than $3.5 billion of integrated circuits bought
annually for use in military gear.

That shortfall is viewed with concern by current and former United States
military and intelligence agency executives who argue that the menace of
so-called Trojan horses hidden in equipment circuitry is among the most severe
threats the nation faces in the event of a war in which communications and
weaponry rely on computer technology.

As advanced systems like aircraft, missiles and radars have become dependent on
their computing capabilities, the specter of subversion causing weapons to fail
in times of crisis, or secretly corrupting crucial data, has come to haunt
military planners. The problem has grown more severe as most American
semiconductor manufacturing plants have moved offshore.

Only one-fifth of all computer chips are now made in the United States, and just
one-quarter of the chips based on the most advanced technologies are built here,
I.B.M. executives say. That has led the Pentagon and the National Security
Agency to expand significantly the number of American plants authorized to
manufacture chips for the Pentagon's Trusted Foundry program.

Despite the increases, semiconductor industry executives and Pentagon officials
say, the United States lacks the ability to fulfill the capacity requirements
needed to manufacture computer chips for classified systems.

''The department is aware that there are risks to using commercial technology in
general and that there are greater risks to using globally sourced technology,''
said Robert Lentz, who before his retirement last month was in charge of the
Trusted Foundry program as the deputy assistant defense secretary for cyber,
identity and information assurance.

Counterfeit computer hardware, largely manufactured in Asian factories, is
viewed as a significant problem by private corporations and military planners. A
recent White House review noted that there had been several ''unambiguous,
deliberate subversions'' of computer hardware.

''These are not hypothetical threats,'' the report's author, Melissa Hathaway,
said in an e-mail message. ''We have witnessed countless intrusions that have
allowed criminals to steal hundreds of millions of dollars and allowed
nation-states and others to steal intellectual property and sensitive military
information.''

Ms. Hathaway declined to offer specifics.

Cyberwarfare analysts argue that while most computer security efforts have until
now been focused on software, tampering with hardware circuitry may ultimately
be an equally dangerous threat. That is because modern computer chips routinely
comprise hundreds of millions, or even billions, of transistors. The increasing
complexity means that subtle modifications in manufacturing or in the design of
chips will be virtually impossible to detect.

''Compromised hardware is, almost literally, a time bomb, because the corruption
occurs well before the attack,'' Wesley K. Clark, a retired Army general, wrote
in an article in Foreign Affairs magazine that warns of the risks the nation
faces from insecure computer hardware.

''Maliciously tampered integrated circuits cannot be patched,'' General Clark
wrote. ''They are the ultimate sleeper cell.''

Indeed, in cyberwarfare, the most ancient strategy is also the most modern.

Internet software programs known as Trojan horses have become a tool of choice
for computer criminals who sneak malicious software into computers by putting it
in seemingly innocuous programs. They then pilfer information and transform
Internet-connected PCs into slave machines. With hardware, the strategy is an
even more subtle form of sabotage, building a chip with a hidden flaw or a means
for adversaries to make it crash when wanted.

Pentagon executives defend the manufacturing strategy, which is largely based on
a 10-year contract with a secure I.B.M. chipmaking plant in Burlington, Vt.,
reported to be valued as high as $600 million, and a certification process that
has been extended to 28 American chipmakers and related technology firms.

''The department has a comprehensive risk-management strategy that addresses a
variety of risks in different ways,'' said Mitchell Komaroff, the director of a
Pentagon program intended to develop a strategy to minimize national security
risks in the face of the computer industry's globalization.

Mr. Komaroff pointed to advanced chip technologies that made it possible to buy
standard hardware components that could be securely programmed after they were
acquired.

But as military planners have come to view cyberspace as an impending
battlefield, American intelligence agency experts said, all sides are arming
themselves with the ability to create hardware Trojan horses and to hide them
deep inside the circuitry of computer hardware and electronic devices to
facilitate military attacks.

In the future, and possibly already hidden in existing weapons, clandestine
additions to electronic circuitry could open secret back doors that would let
the makers in when the users were depending on the technology to function.
Hidden kill switches could be included to make it possible to disable
computer-controlled military equipment from a distance. Such switches could be
used by an adversary or as a safeguard if the technology fell into enemy hands.

A Trojan horse kill switch may already have been used. A 2007 Israeli Air Force
attack on a suspected partly constructed Syrian nuclear reactor led to
speculation about why the Syrian air defense system did not respond to the
Israeli aircraft. Accounts of the event initially indicated that sophisticated
jamming technology was used to blind the radars. Last December, however, a
report in an American technical publication, IEEE Spectrum, cited a European
industry source in raising the possibility that the Israelis might have used a
built-in kill switch to shut down the radars.

Separately, an American semiconductor industry executive said in an interview
that he had direct knowledge of the operation and that the technology for
disabling the radars was supplied by Americans to the Israeli electronic
intelligence agency, Unit 8200.

The disabling technology was given informally but with the knowledge of the
American government, said the executive, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity. His claim could not be independently verified, and American military,
intelligence and contractors with classified clearance declined to discuss the
attack.

The United States has used a variety of Trojan horses, according to various
sources.

In 2004, Thomas C. Reed, an Air Force secretary in the Reagan administration,
wrote that the United States had successfully inserted a software Trojan horse
into computing equipment that the Soviet Union had bought from Canadian
suppliers. Used to control a Trans-Siberian gas pipeline, the doctored software
failed, leading to a spectacular explosion in 1982.

Crypto AG, a Swiss maker of cryptographic equipment, was the subject of intense
international speculation during the 1980s when, after the Reagan administration
took diplomatic actions in Iran and Libya, it was widely reported in the
European press that the National Security Agency had access to a hardware back
door in the company's encryption machines that made it possible to read
electronic messages transmitted by many governments.

According to a former federal prosecutor, who declined to be identified because
of his involvement in the operation, during the early '80s the Justice
Department, with the assistance of an American intelligence agency, also
modified the hardware of a Digital Equipment Corporation computer to ensure that
the machine -- being shipped through Canada to Russia -- would work erratically
and could be disabled remotely.

The American government began making a concerted effort to protect against
hardware tampering in 2003, when Deputy Defense Secretary Paul D. Wolfowitz
circulated a memorandum calling on the military to ensure the economic viability
of domestic chipmakers.

In 2005, the Defense Science Advisory Board issued a report warning of the risks
of foreign-made computer chips and calling on the Defense Department to create a
policy intended to stem the erosion of American semiconductor manufacturing
capacity.

Former Pentagon officials said the United States had not yet adequately
addressed the problem.

''The more we looked at this problem the more concerned we were,'' said Linton
Wells II, formerly the principal deputy assistant defense secretary for networks
and information integration. ''Frankly, we have no systematic process for
addressing these problems.''

Cyberwar: Trojan Horses: Computers, indispensable in peace, are becoming ever
more important in political conflicts and open warfare. This article is part of
a series examining the growing use of computer power as a weapon. Previous
articles: nytimes.com /cyberwar.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CONCERNS: Malicious software could disable missiles and other
weapons. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JORDAN R. BEESLEY/U.S. NAVY - ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.D4)
DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) (pg.D1)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               58 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 1, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Picking a Genre

BYLINE: By COLSON WHITEHEAD.

Colson Whitehead's novels include ''The Intuitionist'' (ist) and ''John Henry
Days'' (encyclopedic). His most recent book is ''Sag Harbor.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1162 words


I    recently published a novel, and now it's time to get back to work. If
you're anything like me, figuring out what to write next can be a real hassle. A
flashy and experimental brain-bender, or a pointillist examination of the
dissolution of a typical American family? Generation-spanning door-stopper or
claustrophobic psychological sketch? Buncha novellas with a minor character in
common? To make things easier, I modified my dartboard a few years ago. Now,
when I'm overwhelmed by the untold stories out there, I head down to the
basement, throw a dart and see where it lands. Try it for yourself!

Encyclopedic Have you ever thought, There is a system that rules our culture,
and this system also determines interaction on the individual level, and I have
come up with a metaphor that describes both manifestations, and can provide many
examples? If so, you may be postmodern, or postmodern-curious. E. M. Foster
said, ''Only connect,'' and Lauryn Hill seconded him, maintaining that
''everything is everything.'' They aren't postmodernists, but that's the beauty
of the postmodern -- it's not what it is, it's what you say it is.

Realism Take this test. When you read ''These dishes have been sitting in the
sink for days,'' do you think (a)  This is an indicator of my inner weather, or
(b) Why don't they do the dishes? Does the phrase ''I'm going as far away from
here as my broken transmission will get me, and then I'll take it from there''
make you think (a)  Somebody understands me, or (b) Why don't they stay and talk
it out? What is more visually appealing, (a)  a Pall Mall butt floating in a
coffee mug, or (b) those new Pop Art place mats in the Crate & Barrel catalog?
If you answered (a), do we have a genre for you.

Recommended for: The rumpled, drinky.

Ist Simply add -ist to any oddball or unlikely root word, and run with it. You'd
be surprised.

Ethnic Bildungsroman Your parents packed their bags and took a chance on a dream
called America. From Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean, Bangladesh and
Beijing. Then you came along, with all your surly second-generation-ness, and
you wondered, Why do they eat that food, their accent is so heavy, why can't
they leave me alone and let me play baseball? For you are not like them, you Old
World-eschewing, Otherness-contemplating, bubble-gum-popping, shiksa-smooching,
WASP bastion-charging, bootstrapping young thing. You got moxie, kid, and just
like Mary Tyler Moore, you're gonna make it after all.

Sample titles: ''From Here, but Also Not''; ''Annette Lipshitz for President.''

About A Little Known Historical Fact Possession is nine-tenths of the law. Find
a little-known atrocity and claim squatter's rights. Get in there so no one can
take your lynching, massacre or overlooked genocide away from you. People like
to be educated about tragedies that they've never shaken their heads sadly over
before. Getting them to say ''I didn't know about that'' is a surprisingly
effective marketing tool. Practice speaking mellifluously -- you're going to be
doing a lot of NPR.

Sample titles: ''The Gridleysville Account''; ''Shout! The Forgotten People.''

Fabulism Ladies with wings and men without mouths. Dancing trees and talkative
cows. If it's for kids, it's a fairy tale. If it's for grown-ups, it's magic
realism! Whether you're 8 or 80, everybody loves magic. This is the perfect
genre for writers who may be tempted to throw out manuscript pages when they get
stuck -- with magic realism, you can just conjure up a flaming tornado and whisk
troublesome characters away. ''Where's Jasper?'' ''Remember that legend I
mentioned 25 pages ago, about the Flaming Tornado of Red Creek?''

Historical Novel Sweeping. . . . Meticulously researched. . . . Something about
verandas. Welcome to the world of the historical novel. This is different from a
book About a Little Known Historical Fact in that you're taking a recognizable
event or milieu, familiar from PBS documentaries and Oscar-winning movies, and
putting your own spin on it. If you get sick of those tedious period details
(gas-lamp, chamber-pot, chandler -- oy!), consider cutting between the past and
the present, where the narrator discovers information about some ancestor's role
in things. Throw in a real-life famous person -- Jimmy Hoffa, Emma Goldman, the
Lindbergh baby -- and watch the sparks fly.

Allegory This book is about the Black Death . . . or is it?

Sample titles: ''The Forest''; ''The Mound''; ''The Illness''; ''The Cubby'';
''The Lump.''

Domestic Why is Timmy spending so much time with his door closed? Did I hear
Janet sneaking out last night? Bert's always working late these days, it's like
I hardly see him. Jamie has started another affair -- she's one of my best
friends but I don't know what she's thinking sometimes. I guess it all began
that fateful night when my car broke down.

Recommended for: People who stumble upon their muse in Aisle 8 of Whole Foods.

Thriller Nothing wrong with putting a little food on the table, especially in
these times of economic uncertainty.

Recommended for: Those who know only five adjectives, but know them really well.

Southern Novel of Black Misery Africans in America, cut your teeth on this
literary staple. Slip on your sepia-tinted goggles and investigate the legacy of
slavery that still reverberates to this day, the legacy of Reconstruction that
still reverberates to this day, and crackers. Invent nutty transliterations of
what you think slaves talked like. But hurry up -- the hounds are a-gittin'
closer!

Sample titles: ''I'll Love You Till the Gravy Runs Out and Then I'm Gonna Lick
Out the Skillet''; ''Sore Bunions on a Dusty Road.''

Southern Novel of White Misery, OR Southern Novel What race problem?

Sample titles: ''The Birthing Stone''; ''The Gettin' Place.''

Social Realism You: A canny observer in a white suit and a fine cravat. The
Culture: Just waiting for someone to explain it to itself. When these two krazy
kidz get together, it's zeitgeist! Dig in and tell people how they really live
today. Convince the reader that your ear is attuned to the modern vernacular,
that your nose sniffs the tang of changing mores, and that your fingers are on
the pulse of our time, somewhere around the neck, to better choke the life out
of it. Hold up a mirror to our society, or at least to the lives of book critics
who will write that your book ''holds up a mirror to our society.'' You're not
done until you come up with at least one spot-on description that enters the
national vocabulary. Here are some freebies to start you off: ''cyber galoots,''
''walking kabobs,''  ''electric ninnies.'' But please, please, please -- know
when you're too old to pull it off.

Sample titles: ''Yonder Lies the Glittery City''; ''Sotto Voce.''

Remember, this is only a partial list -- there are literally dozens of kinds of
books out there waiting for the right writer to come along. Step right up, and
see what happens. It works for me.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JEFFREY DOCHERTY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               59 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 1, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

San Antonio Built Community Coalition to Land Cyberwarfare Headquarters

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 855 words

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO


When Kelly Air Force Base was ordered shut down in 1995, more than 17,000 jobs
left town. Now the military presence is growing again. This time, though, the
new force will not comprise fighters, bombers or boots on the ground. Instead,
the city is hosting the fastest-growing domain of government and military
spending: cyberwarfare.

The Air Force's new military command for computer-network offense and defense,
activated in late summer, is expected to require 5,500 to 7,000 jobs, including
Air Force personnel, Defense Department civilians and private-sector
contractors.

Lackland Air Force Base here was named home for the new Air Force cyberwarfare
operation after a competition that pitted San Antonio against communities with
better-known  bases in Colorado, Illinois, Louisiana, Nebraska and Virginia.

In fact, when the Air Force began looking for a place to base its new
headquarters for computer-network warfare, officially called the 24th Air Force,
San Antonio was not even on the list.

''But we had a secret weapon -- a lot of retired colonels, lieutenant colonels
and majors who had shed their uniforms and now are in key positions at the
Chamber of Commerce and all across the business community,'' said John B.
Dickson of Denim Group, a computer software and network security firm here.
''They were able to make the business case very strongly in San Antonio's
favor.''

The Obama administration this year elevated computer-network warfare to be its
high frontier of national security priorities, with far-reaching effects on
military operations -- and how the Pentagon does business.

San Antonio's experience in lobbying for the new headquarters proved how the
traditional ''Iron Triangle'' of military contracting -- the Pentagon, Congress
and the military industry -- is being replaced by a new silicon circle that
requires harnessing the efforts of municipal governments, business leaders and
universities to ride the next wave of large military contracts.

''You have to pull together all the disparate interests in your community --
academic interests, public-sector utilities, the military, other federal
agencies already operating in town and the business community,'' said Matt Pirko
of ManTech Security and Mission Assurance, another local computer-network firm.

Julian Castro, the mayor of San Antonio, said community leaders found it easy to
sell the lobbying effort, not just in Washington but to their own citizens. San
Antonio has a history of energetically supporting its military bases, he said.
But even more, cyberoperations are viewed as a more intellectual and clean, even
''green,'' sector of the American military than traditional combat.

Mr. Castro said the effort to sway decision makers was built on arguments that
San Antonio not only offered excellent computer security expertise and the
municipal infrastructure to support it, but was producing network warriors for
the future through new programs at its high schools and local colleges.

Ravi Sandhu, executive director of the Institute for Cyber Security, at the
University of Texas at San Antonio, said the recession had forced the state to
cut back money for a number of academic programs, but not in computer security,
and not here.

One draw for the Air Force was the institute's Center for Infrastructure
Assurance and Security, which developed the ''Dark Screen'' exercise adopted by
municipalities in 11 states to learn how to protect critical city infrastructure
from computer-network attacks.

The center's assistant director, Dwayne Williams, said his program was being
used in so many cities, including several that competed for the new Air Force
command, that his organization was prohibited from assisting hometown officials
in making the pitch to the Air Force because of insider knowledge on weaknesses
in computer security systems of those other cities.

At Lackland Air Force Base, signs have been going up, identifying the new 24th
Air Force headquarters and its subordinate units, the 688th Information
Operations Wing and the 67th Network Warfare Wing. The new headquarters will
command two other communications groups, based in Galveston, Tex., and Oklahoma
City.

Maj. Gen. Richard E. Webber, commander of the 24th Air Force, said the choice of
San Antonio was based on ''proximity to other cyberoperational missions, as well
as access to communications and bandwidth capabilities, infrastructure and the
local scientific and technical base.''

It did not hurt that the National Security Agency already has significant
operations in San Antonio, including a unit of its Central Security Service,
whose missions include protecting government computer systems and producing
foreign signals intelligence.

Within the alphabet soup of American spy agencies, the N.S.A. takes the lead in
electronic intelligence and computer-network warfare. Its director is expected
to be assigned the second task of being in charge of the Pentagon's new United
States Cybercommand, overseeing militarywide computer-network operations. The
24th Air Force will be the service's operation in support of that command's
mission.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Julian Castro, left, of San Antonio said his city offered
military decision makers excellent computer security expertise.(PHOTOGRAPH BY
ERICH SCHLEGEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               60 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 26, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

This Year, It May Be Wise to Skip the Shopping Maul

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM and CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1214 words


Attention shoppers: It might pay to just sleep in this Black Friday.

The conventional wisdom is that the most stupendous bargains of the year are to
be had on the Friday after Thanksgiving. But the marketplace has become so
packed on that crowded shopping day that some retailers are shifting their
strategy.

Deals on certain products are likely to be just as good, perhaps even better, in
the days and weeks after Friday. In this economy, retailers need to stand out --
and some of them are betting they can do so by offering bargains later in the
season. Also, while chains are not discounting as deeply as last year, they know
the primary way to get penny-pinching consumers to spend is to keep the deals
coming all season long.

Exactly which strategy retailers are pursuing this year differs not only among
shopping chains but among categories of merchandise. That means the best time to
shop for the season could hinge on which items are on your list.

''Black Friday is about cheap stuff at cheap prices,'' said Daniel de Grandpre,
the editor in chief of DealNews.com, which tracks such sales each year. ''That
means that high-end stuff is not on sale on Black Friday. It just isn't.''

That is not to say consumers who brave the nation's stores on Friday will not
find deals on flat-screen televisions and fluffy ear muffs. But the products on
sale that day, particularly electronics, generally are lower-end products
without many extras,  or they are older models on the verge of being
discontinued. That is, of course, a  reason stores are able to offer them at low
prices.

''It looks like a real mixed bag of deals and duds,'' said Andrew Eisner,
director of content for Retrevo, a Web site that reviews consumer electronics
and recommends where and when to buy them.

Many of the gadgets on sale this Friday will be outdated models, he said, like
navigation devices without speech capability, Blu-ray players without Internet
connections and digital cameras without face-recognition technology.

Manish Rathi, a co-founder of Retrevo, cited some ''over-the-hill'' products,
like a Nikon CoolPix  digital camera being sold at Target for $88, reduced from
$140.

Mr. de Grandpre said luxury retailers tended to stay out of the Black Friday
fray because they would rather not associate with bargain-basement shopping. To
participate in the nation's uber-shopping day in a way that is befitting their
status, luxury chains do offer deals, but only in certain popular holiday and
seasonal categories, like coats and home decor. And they do not bother to open
at 5 a.m., a common opening time on the day after Thanksgiving for the lower-end
retailers known as big-box stores.

The luxury chain Saks, for instance, is offering 40 percent off already reduced
merchandise, but not its newest collections. The chain does not bring in
merchandise specifically for the day after Thanksgiving. And the doors open at
the relatively late hour of 8 a.m.

''The key difference is we don't run a strategy of these key items that we buy
thousands of and that we mark down to these low, low amounts,'' said Kimberly
Grabel, senior vice president for marketing at Saks. ''That is the big-box
mentality.''

Stores have greatly reduced their inventories since last year, when the economic
downturn forced them into panic selling. So while there will be sales, as there
are every year in any economy, it is possible stores might run out of certain
products or sizes. ''For the best selection you are going to need to shop early
this year,'' Ms. Grabel said.

Her best advice? ''Stay home and shop online.''

Indeed, on Wednesday, many stores had begun holiday promotions  on their Web
sites. On Wednesday, clothing was up to 40 percent off at Bloomingdale's, Saks,
Neiman Marcus and Barneys. At Nordstrom, merchandise was up to 50 percent off.
At Lord & Taylor, some items, like women's coats, were half off.

Saks planned to offer its early deals online at midnight Wednesday. ''We figure
some people will need a break from their family on Thursday,'' Ms. Grabel said.

To distinguish themselves from discounters, the likes of Saks and Neiman Marcus
also offer gift cards for spending a certain amount of money within a designated
time period on Black Friday, which got its name because it was thought to be the
day when retailers often shifted into the black, or became profitable. In the
coming months, the chains will probably  continue borrowing the idea of private,
timed online sales.

Made popular by members-only shopping Web sites like Gilt, Rue La La and
HauteLook, the sales give consumers a now-or-never incentive to buy, and are a
less conspicuous way for stores to sell designer merchandise at a discount.
Consumers must sign up for e-mail alerts on retailers' Web sites to be in the
know.

In general, chain stores will not divulge their promotion schedules for the rest
of the shopping season, but some Web sites also track sales throughout the
holiday season, including Deal- News.com, BlackFriday.info, and Bfads.net.

Expect some notable deals online on Monday, now called Cyber Monday, when
consumers return to their offices and go holiday shopping on the Web.

This year, more e-commerce sites plan to offer bargains to win over reluctant
consumers. For instance, Blue Nile, the online jeweler, has long avoided
participating in promotional days. But no more.

''Even the wealthy have become more value-conscious,'' said John Baird, a
spokesman for Blue Nile, noting a shift in the behavior of its more affluent
customers.

Blue Nile plans to offer two promotions on Monday -- free overnight shipping on
orders placed by 6 p.m. Eastern time, and discounts on a different item each day
through Dec. 23. (On one of the days, a 15-carat diamond eternity bracelet will
cost $27,000, down from $36,500. Blue Nile would not say which day the bracelet
would be on sale.)

''We want to be very careful when we offer special promotions like this, to make
sure they are brand-appropriate,'' Mr. Baird said. ''We're not going to be like
the mall jeweler, so you're not going to see 50 percent off the entire store.''

Across-the-board sales are the specialty of the nation's biggest big-box stores
and Web sites, and they, too, began discounting before consumers roasted their
turkeys.

Kmart  had a ''Better Than Black Friday Sale.'' Best Buy offered ''Early Black
Friday Prices'' on some televisions, and on Nov. 11 the chain offered its
lowest-ever advertised price on a laptop,  $250.  Toys ''R'' Us had early
blockbuster deals known as doorbusters. And for weeks, Wal-Mart, the nation's
largest retailer, has been offering deep discounts.

Consumers who missed those bargains need not fret.

''Once you've started discounting, it's hard to stop midseason,'' said Maggie
Taylor, a vice president and senior credit officer for Moody's Investors
Service.

Some chains are even getting a jump on Monday, re-imagining it as Cyber Sunday.
J.C.  Penney, for instance, plans to offer its Monday sales beginning Sunday,
for two days. Staples also plans to offer its Web  deals on both Sunday and
Monday.

Consumers can track hourly specials on CyberMonday.com, which will continue
posting news about deals at the nation's major online retailers long after
Monday.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Best Buy, which offered early discounts on some televisions and
laptops, was keeping other deals under wraps until Friday at this store in
Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               61 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 29, 2009 Sunday
                                National Edition

Hard Hats Don't Deflect Union Workers' Hardships

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON.

Dirk Johnson is a Chicago journalist who frequently writes for The New York
Times.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE;
Pg. 35A

LENGTH: 713 words


In a dank basement on Michigan Avenue, a 24-year-old apprentice plumber strained
on a ladder, gripping a claw hammer as he struggled with a storm pipe.

Watching the young worker, Frank Zalud, a veteran union tradesman, called out in
a voice of encouragement: ''Hey! You winning the battle?''

''No,'' replied Joe Beemsterboer, lanky and dirt-smudged, his voice cracking
with a hint of emotion. ''I am absolutely not winning.''

For workers in hard hats these days, it can seem like they are up against it.

A majority of Americans now say unions are bad for the nation, according to
Gallup polls. And the loss of two big trade shows at McCormick Place, for which
the expense of union help was blamed, is bound to provoke more grumbling about
organized labor in Chicago, traditionally one of the most loyal of union towns.

At the office building construction site at the corner of Michigan Avenue and
Monroe Street, the talk among union workers the other day was tinged with
bitterness. Many of the workers said they think they get a bad rap.

But at Gage, a fashionable cafe just a block from the pounding hammers and
buzzing saws, Steve Thompson, a cyber-executive, said he considered $40-an-hour
pay ''unreasonable'' for the crowd in steel-toe boots, ''given their education
and training.''

To workers in the trades, that kind of talk is as familiar as the freezing wind
that slaps their faces on outdoor job sites, sometimes while working on a
six-inch wide steel beam on the 75th floor.

Mr. Beemsterboer has friends who are teachers, lawyers, college students. He has
heard every kind of lunkhead stereotype about people in construction. It stings.

''My friends say, 'Aw, come on, you guys just sit around and drink beer most of
the time, don't you?' '' said Mr. Beemsterboer, who wears a blue bandanna inside
his hard hat and an Abercrombie sweatshirt under his bib overalls. ''People look
at us like we're lazy. Even my girlfriend, who's a teacher, doesn't really get
it. We work very hard.''

Now in the fourth year of his apprenticeship, he attends union trade school
every Tuesday night, from 5 to 9, to learn about building codes and blueprints.

Times have changed. Now the unions have more black and Latino members, and
women, too. Unlike the 1960s, when angry men in hard hats scowled at Vietnam war
protesters, union members in last year's election gave their support to Barack
Obama.

The cozy old ''dad and lad'' tradition -- fathers handing union membership to
sons -- has given way to rigorous testing and schooling.

As it happens, Mr. Zalud, 39, has a college degree in business administration.

Beer drinking? Having a drink at lunch will get you fired. Drug tests are
routine. Mr. Zalud said he has had four or five surprise drug tests.

''I don't drink,'' he said, ''and I've never even had a cigarette.''

The superintendent on the job is Jay Quinn, 49, who occasionally comes across a
worker who is a slacker, someone who ''just wants to find a place to hide.''

They do not hide for long; Mr. Quinn will fire them.

It is rarely an issue. On this job, most of the workers show up 30 minutes
before the shift starts at 6 a.m.

''With times being so tough,'' said Mr. Quinn, ''anybody still working is the
cream of the crop.''

In a makeshift lunchroom for ironworkers, a radio played ''Running on Empty.''
These are guys who follow the news, and they are fed up with anti-union talk.

Tom Clark, a 56-year-old with a long gray ponytail -- an ironworker who walks
narrow beams 70 stories above the pavement -- has seen the public mood toward
workers go sour before.

In the early 1980s, during the Rust Belt downturn, it was popular to bash
unions. ''They're looking for a scapegoat,'' he said. ''And so they look at
us.''

John Delarosa is a 35-year-old electrician whose mother was born in Mexico. He
makes $40 an hour, enough for his family to live in a three-bedroom house in the
suburbs.

He is grateful, but he said that people who wear suits to work never seem to
have to apologize for making a good living.

He wears a headlight around his hard hat to navigate dark spaces. He sometimes
pokes his head through a hole and comes face to face with a crowd of mice or
rats.

''The worst are the cockroaches,'' he said.

He is earning his paycheck.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               62 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 29, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Don't Take This Bait (But You're Safe if You Do)

BYLINE: By RANDALL STROSS.

Randall Stross is an author based in Silicon Valley and a professor of business
at San Jose State University. E-mail: stross@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DIGITAL
DOMAIN; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 896 words


THE e-mail message from the bank looks real. It isn't.

Law enforcement agencies that oversee computer security are well versed in the
many permutations of ''phishing,'' the scam in which fraudsters try to lure
people to a counterfeit replica of their bank's Web site, for example, and have
them part with their user names and passwords.

But even the professionally wary can be gulled -- or close to it. Just ask
Robert S. Mueller III, the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Mr. Mueller recently received an e-mail message that seemed to be from his bank.
He clicked on the link and began to follow the instructions to ''verify'' his
account information. Before completing the procedure, however, he realized that
he had been led to a counterfeit site -- so he left.

It's the aftermath that is of most interest. After Mr. Mueller told his wife
about his close call, he said she drew this conclusion from the experience:
simply having online access to bank accounts is unacceptably risky.

''No more Internet banking for you,'' she told him.

The F.B.I. director related the story in a speech to the Commonwealth Club of
California in October. ''Too little attention has been paid to cyber threats --
and their consequences,'' Mr. Mueller said that day.

He offered his own experience as a cautionary tale from ''someone who spends a
good deal of his professional life warning others about the perils of
cybercrime,'' yet who still came close to falling for a scam and ''barely caught
himself in time.'' (The story ends there, and an F.B.I. spokesman for Mr.
Mueller declined my interview request.)

An audience of civilians would naturally wonder, ''What chance do we have of
keeping our pockets from being picked?''

I'm not convinced, however, that online banking carries the high risk that Mr.
Mueller implies. I know that as ordinary computer users, we are offered
unlimited bait from phishers. But I'm not particularly worried: I'm not on the
hook for losses from fraud -- my bank is.

I could not find any online financial service -- and I checked brokerage firms
as well as banks -- that stops short of promising to make a victimized customer
whole.

Mr. Mueller, encouraging his audience to invest in ''cybersecurity,'' raised a
terrifying specter when he spoke of guarding ''against losing everything.'' But
how could I suffer ''losing everything'' at the hands of online criminals when
my bank has this policy posted on its Web site: ''We guarantee that you will be
covered for 100 percent of funds removed from your Wells Fargo accounts in the
unlikely event that someone you haven't authorized removes those funds through
our Online Services.''

''Zero liability is now an industry standard,'' said Doug Johnson, vice
president for risk management at the American Bankers Association. Restitution
is full, and customers do not even have the $50 of exposure that credit card
holders risk from unauthorized use of their cards.

Banks, online brokerage firms and payment sites like PayPal, exposed as they all
are, would like for us to use more sophisticated security than a password to
protect our accounts. One way to combat the phishing threat is to require that
online customers supply a second piece of information when they log in, a
one-time-only numeric code that is either generated by a little gizmo built for
this purpose or is sent to the customer's cellphone.

Your password is ''something you know,'' as security experts describe it, and
the temporary security code is ''something you have'' -- and something that a
phishing fraudster would not. Requiring two dissimilar things is the essence of
''two-factor authentication.''

Such a system isn't perfect, but one can see why financial institutions would
like to have a better lock installed on their front door. These institutions
must proceed cautiously, however, lest they scare customers into abandoning
online banking. At the moment, banks seem to be offering the security key system
principally to customers with business accounts.

Teddy De Rivera, executive vice president in the Internet services group at
Wells Fargo, said his bank would roll out its security key system more broadly
over the next two years. Wells Fargo plans to require a code not every time a
customer logs in, but only when its software detects a suspicious ''high-risk
transaction.'' His group had collected feedback from customers who made clear
that they ''don't want to have to use it every time,'' he said.

I  SIGNED up to try PayPal's security key system, available to its users on
request. Every time I log in, I receive a six-digit code in a text message sent
to my phone -- it's easy to type in, but it adds an extra step.

When I asked Michael Vergara, director of risk management at PayPal, whether he
recommended that all PayPal customers adopt the security key system, he said,
''If I spend a lot of time going to shadier areas of the Internet, yes.''

''But if you're talking about my mom, who visits three sites, having an extra
level of security when she comes to PayPal is not going to improve her
experience,'' he added.

I don't know whether Mr. Mueller at the F.B.I. has persuaded his wife to lift
the household ban on online banking. If he hasn't, he should deploy the two
words that have the magical power to put the most anxious online bank customer
at ease:

Zero liability.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO ILLUSTRATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               63 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 30, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Shoppers Showed Up, But Spent On Bargains

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 873 words


More consumers flooded the nation's stores on Thanksgiving weekend in search of
bargains. But with retailers dangling rock-bottom prices and consumers only
biting at less expensive merchandise like small appliances and winter clothes,
the average amount spent by each shopper declined  from last year.

Some 195 million consumers visited stores and Web sites over the weekend, up
from 172 million last year, according to the National Retail Federation, the
trade group that reported sales results on Sunday afternoon. Average spending
over the weekend, however, fell to $343.31 a person, from $372.57 a year ago.
Total spending was $41.2 billion -- about the same as last year.

''While retailers are encouraged by the number of Americans who shopped over
Black Friday weekend, they know they have their work cut out for them to keep
people coming back through Christmas,'' Tracy Mullin, president and chief
executive of the federation, said in a statement. ''Shoppers can continue to
expect retailers to focus on low prices and bargains through the end of
December.''

One report, from ShopperTrak, a consulting and research firm, showed spending on
Friday alone ticked up 0.5 percent  compared with last year, to $10.66 billion.
A more complete picture of the first half of the  Christmas season will not
emerge until Thursday, when the nation's chains report their November sales.

According to a survey to be published this week by the market research firm  NPD
Group, deeply discounted, limited quantity merchandise -- known as doorbusters
-- was essential in luring consumers to stores over the weekend.

Most people shopped on Friday because they saw an advertisement for a deal that
was too good to pass up or because they feared a chain would run out of an item
they wanted, said Marshal Cohen, chief industry analyst for the NPD Group, which
studied shopping behavior over Thanksgiving weekend. On a quest for value and
one-stop shopping, a majority of consumers bought at big discount chains like
Wal-Mart, spending $50 to $99.99 each.

The good news for retailers was that consumers opened their wallets for some
discretionary items, albeit cheap ones. Shoppers not only bought gifts, but also
took advantage of low prices to replace old household sundries, like irons,
toasters and sheets. The NPD Group found that pent-up demand led some 63.8
percent of consumers to shop for themselves over the weekend.

Consumers began looking for discounts early, with more of them visiting stores
this year before dawn. An estimated 31.2 percent of shoppers were at stores by 5
a.m., compared with 23.3 percent who were at stores by that time last year,
according to the federation's survey, which was conducted by BIGresearch.

''During a more robust economy, people may be inclined to hit the snooze button
on Black Friday,'' Phil Rist, executive vice president for strategic initiatives
at BIGresearch, said in the federation's statement, ''but high unemployment and
a focus on price caused shoppers to visit stores early in anticipation of the
best deals.''

The National Retail Federation said shoppers' destination of choice appeared to
be department stores, with almost half of holiday shoppers visiting at least
one, a nearly 13 percent increase from last year. Discount retailers were also
top choices, attracting some 43.2 percent of shoppers.

As for online sales, comScore, the Internet research company, said retail
e-commerce spending for the first 27 days of the holiday season, this year Nov.
1 to 27,  rose 3 percent, to $10.57 billion, compared with the period last year.
Online sales on Friday were $595 million, up 11 percent from last year.

The most popular purchases of the weekend were clothing and books, according to
the federation. And many more consumers bought toys, up nearly 13 percent from
last year. More shoppers also bought sporting goods, beauty items and gift
cards. The NPD Group said its research showed the three hottest categories to be
electronics, clothing and movies.

Although the Friday after Thanksgiving is typically a busy day, a big turnout
does not necessarily translate into significant profits or indicate how
consumers will shop for the rest of the year. Last year, retailers posted the
worst sales figures in decades. This year, sales are expected to be about the
same as last Christmas.

Retailers forecast more action on Monday, known as Cyber Monday, when they offer
alluring deals on their Web sites -- the digital equivalent of Black Friday. The
National Retail Federation said the number of consumers who planned to shop
online  on Monday rose to 96.5 million, up from 85 million last year. Some 87.1
percent of retailers will have a special promotion for the day, up from 83.7
percent last year. And in a change from  years past, most consumers say they
will shop from home instead of their offices. That is partly because more
Americans now have high-speed Internet access at home. But it is also a sign of
the times.

''While many companies don't mind employees shopping online over their lunch
hours,'' Mr. Rist of BIGresearch said, ''high unemployment and concerns over job
security may cause more people to shop this Cyber Monday from the comforts of
their own home.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: Weekend Shopping: Surveys of Thanksgiving weekend shoppers found
more people spending less, leaving total sales about the same as last year. Many
shoppers said they were concerned about items being sold out. (Sources: NPD
Group (reasons for buying)
 National Retail Federation (other data)) (B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               64 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 7, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Secret's Out: Sample Sales Move Online

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER and JENNA WORTHAM

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1102 words


Daniela Busciglio still winces at the memory of shivering in line for hours to
get into New York sample sales, then shoving her way through throngs of other
shoppers looking for deals on designer clothes.

But now the mobs are moving online, to sites like Gilt,  Rue La La,   One Kings
Lane,  Ideeli  and HauteLook.  On the Web, the shopping is just as competitive,
but it is no longer a blood sport.

''Who wants to go to sample sales with lines out the door and girls scratching
to get in?'' said Ms. Busciglio, 27, now a graduate student at the University of
Wisconsin-Madison.

Online, she said, ''I can take my time and not have to worry about people
getting up in my face.''

The private-sale sites -- a misnomer because most of these so-called exclusive
sites are open to anyone who signs up -- have become a thriving corner of online
commerce.  Sites using the same ''while supplies last'' approach have sprung up
recently to sell home furnishings, beauty products and travel packages.

The business model is simple: the sites buy mostly overstocked clothing and
accessories from brand-name designers, then discount them deeply.
Adrenaline-pumped shoppers rush to get the deals because the items are often
gone in a few hours.

The sites try to recreate the rush of a warehouse sample sale, minus the
trampling and shoving, but they borrow as much from the Home Shopping Network as
they do from Saks Fifth Avenue. After shoppers add an item to their cart at
Gilt, for example, they get a 10-minute countdown before they lose the item.

For Matthew Rodriguez, 29, a Web marketer and Gilt shopper, the sales turn
shopping into a game. ''Knowing the sales start every day at noon makes me
really competitive to get an item before someone else gets it,'' he said. He
recently  bought a pair of Clae white patent leather sneakers for $38 on Gilt.
They can sell for as much as $135 in retail stores.

More mainstream retailers are also adopting the idea. Saks, for example, is
holding 24-hour half-price sales on brands like Herve Leger.

Others are using the idea for holiday promotions. On the Monday after
Thanksgiving, a big online shopping day known as Cyber Monday, Ashford,  which
sells luxury brand watches, discounted a different watch every two hours on its
site. Blue Nile,  the jewelry site, is offering a different deal every day until
Dec. 23.

By discounting one item at a time, the retailers attract bargain-seekers and
avoid the deep discounting done storewide last year, thereby protecting their
profit margins. By 3:10 p.m. on Cyber Monday, Blue Nile had sold out of a
five-carat diamond bracelet, marked down to $3,950 from $5,300.

One of the buyers, Dan Stanley of Falls Church, Va., said that he had not heard
of private sales before and that for four days, he had been shopping for a
bracelet for his wife. He bought it on the spot. ''The 'one day' caught my eye,
and I wouldn't have risked it,'' Mr. Stanley said.

Private-sale sites are attracting brand-name investors. Kleiner Perkins Caufield
& Byers, the venture capital firm that backed Google and Amazon.com, invested on
Wednesday in One Kings Lane, which sells home decor. Gilt Groupe raised $55
million from Matrix Partners and General Atlantic, and Rue La La's parent
company was recently acquired by GSI Commerce for $180 million.

The concept seems tailored to recessionary times. Any guilt that consumers feel
over spending thousands of dollars on unnecessary items can be replaced by
bragging rights for  finding a killer bargain, like a $4,500 diamond necklace
that was recently on sale for $2,250 at Gilt.

''We started this at the worst possible time and got traction right out of the
box,'' said Susan Feldman, a founder of One Kings Lane. People still want to
shop, but in the privacy of their homes, she said. ''They just don't want to be
seen walking down the street carrying a Bloomingdale's or Barneys or Bergdorf
bag.''

It works for the fashion industry, too, because as the economy slumped, stores
deeply cut inventory, which left some designers with excess stock, depending on
their production calendars. Some high-end brands view the sites as a place to
unload inventory without sullying their image by having their merchandise appear
on Overstock.com or on the racks at Filene's Basement. The members-only Web
sites also ensure that search engines will not locate and list the discounted
products.

Juliska sells its full-price tableware, like a $625 stoneware soup tureen, at
luxury department stores like Neiman Marcus. It sells off-season products on One
Kings Lane, Gilt and Rue La La.

Selling those items at T. J. Maxx, as some of Juliska's competitors do, ''is
suicide for a luxury brand,'' said Dave Gooding, the company's chief executive.
''With flash sales, you have the beauty of it being a one-day sale that is done
in a very quick, efficient, tastefully done way, as an alternative to your
product sitting on a dusty shelf for six months.''

For shoppers, the sites provide a selection of items, akin to a boutique, so
they do not have to wade through the thousands of items on bigger e-commerce
sites.

Swirl,  a private-sale site that went live on Nov. 19, is betting on the allure
of a handpicked collection. It was started by DailyCandy, which publishes e-mail
newsletters about  fashionable activities in various cities.

The company's reputation for pointing readers to up-and-coming designers will
help differentiate its sample sale site, said Dany Levy, DailyCandy's founder
and editorial director. ''They trust us, and they know we've done our
homework,'' she said.

But private-sale sites could run into trouble as manufacturers and stores cut
back on inventory. ''The universe of what's overstock is not an infinite
universe,'' said Sucharita Mulpuru, an e-commerce analyst at Forrester.

To maintain their growth, many of the sites have recently expanded beyond
high-end, overstocked apparel.

Ideeli sells spa and vacation packages in addition to clothes, and One Kings
Lane has avoided clothes altogether. Gilt now sells gadgets, like a Tivoli radio
and a Jawbone wireless headset, and offers products for men, children, the home
and younger women with smaller budgets.  Gilt also started a site called
Jetsetter  that sells travel deals, like a room at the Hotel de Crillon in Paris
marked down to $500, from $795.

Susan Lyne, Gilt's chief executive, said that as long as people coveted
something, they would be eager for a deal. ''Gilt and these other shopping sites
allow people to do the thing that gives them pleasure, without all that guilt,''
she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dany Levy, DailyCandy's founder and editorial director, left,
and Eve Epstein choosing items to photograph for a sample sale.(PHOTOGRAPH BY
ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               65 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 17, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Investigation Of Web 'X-Men' Leads to Arrest Of Bronx Man

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 260 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


After a nine-month hunt, Federal Bureau of Investigation agents arrested a Bronx
man on Wednesday suspected of posting an unfinished version of the 20th Century
Fox movie ''X-Men Origins: Wolverine'' on the Web before it was released in
theaters.

But the investigation into the source of the piracy, to find out who actually
took the copy of the movie from the studio, is continuing and more arrests are
possible, according to Laura Eimiller, an F.B.I. spokeswoman.

Gilberto Sanchez, 47, was arrested at his home at about 6 a.m., according to Ms.
Eimiller. Mr. Sanchez was indicted last Thursday by a federal grand jury in Los
Angeles on charges of uploading the unfinished copy of the movie to a Web site,
Megaupload.com, last spring.

If convicted, Mr. Sanchez faces three years in prison and a $250,000 fine or
twice the gross gain or gross loss attributable to the offense, whichever is
greater, according to the United States attorney's office in Los Angeles. Lisa
E. Feldman, an assistant attorney in that office's Cyber and Intellectual
Property Crimes unit, will prosecute the case. She said that Mr. Sanchez had
been released on bail.

The unfinished version of ''Wolverine'' -- missing many special effects and
using temporary sound -- was leaked to the Internet on March 31. Within hours,
the $150 million movie, scheduled to  open on May 1, had been watched by
thousands of people online, setting off a panic inside Fox about the potential
effect on box-office receipts.

Fox estimated that in total,  the file was downloaded 15 million times.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               66 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 18, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Officials Say Iraq Fighters Intercepted Drone Video

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE and CHRISTOPHER DREW; Scott Shane reported from
Washington, and Christopher Drew from New York. Elisabeth Bumiller contributed
reporting from Washington

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 620 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Insurgents in Iraq have occasionally intercepted video images sent from American
military drones to troops in the field, causing the Defense Department to
increase its use of encryption over the last year, military and intelligence
officials said Thursday.

The military has made extensive use of the remotely piloted drones for
surveillance in Iraq and Afghanistan, using live video images to track
insurgents, to catch them burying roadside bombs or to identify their houses or
weapons caches. Most of that data is highly encrypted, and it has been critical
to guiding attacks on the insurgents, often with missiles fired from the drones
themselves or from helicopters.

But The Wall Street Journal reported Thursday that Iraqi insurgents had used a
$26 commercial software package called Sky Grabber, designed to use a satellite
dish to intercept transmissions of movies and music, to capture some of the
video feeds from unmanned aerial vehicles.

Military officials confirmed that they had become aware of the intercepts last
year. But they said that the vulnerability applied only to a subset of
transmissions that had been left unencrypted, and that they had no indication
that insurgents had gained much.

They said the vulnerable transmissions occurred when troops with older laptops
or handheld controllers sought a direct feed from Predators and smaller
surveillance drones, as well as from some conventionally piloted aircraft
equipped for surveillance.

Direct video feeds to the troops have proliferated as the military tries to rush
the latest intelligence to even the smallest units in the field, and they are
expected to play an important role in Afghanistan.

But military officials added that the insurgents would need to be positioned
close to the American troops to intercept the feeds.

They said the newest laptops received encrypted signals, just like all the major
command centers that receive the main feeds from the largest drones. They said
those transmissions had not been compromised.

The officials said they had also been adding encryption, which scrambles the
video signal, and taking other steps to reduce the vulnerability of some of the
older systems. ''But that is a major undertaking, considering that we have
hundreds of U.A.V.'s and hundreds more ground stations,'' one official said.

Geoff Morrell, the Pentagon press secretary, would not speak specifically about
the interception of the video feeds from unmanned aerial vehicles. But he said
Pentagon officials ''constantly evaluate our weapons platforms, including
U.A.V.'s, to make sure that they are performing to maximum effect and that any
potential weaknesses and vulnerabilities are mitigated.''

Military officials were always aware of the possibility that unencrypted signals
from drones might be intercepted, but initially chose not to encrypt the more
localized links to avoid the additional cost, complexity and weight of the
necessary equipment, said Dale W. Meyerrose, a retired Air Force officer who
worked on the military drone program and later was a senior intelligence
official.

''The communications involving high-value intelligence are indeed encrypted,''
said Mr. Meyerrose, vice president for cyber initiatives at Harris Corporation.

Officials familiar with the separate Central Intelligence Agency drone program,
which has killed militants with Al Qaeda and the Taliban in Pakistan, said it
always used encryption.

Officials familiar with the technology said the feeds could show what aspects of
insurgent activity were being watched by allied forces, but would not typically
reveal the location of Western troops. ''I'm really not that concerned,'' said
one Air Force official of the intercepts.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               67 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 19, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Big Web Attack on Twitter Is Third Assault This Year

BYLINE: By JENNA WORTHAM and NICK BILTON; Claire Cain Miller contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1091 words


An online attack Friday morning on Twitter was the result of the simplest of
security breaches: someone got the password to enter the master directory of
Twitter's Internet addresses and then redirected users to an alternate site
instead.

No user information appears to have been stolen in the attack. But the security
breach -- the third major one at Twitter this year --  underscores the
continuing weakness of the company's systems as its micro-blogging service is
becoming more important to business and even global politics.

The incident also highlights a basic vulnerability in the way life is lived as
it becomes increasingly digital: With so much vital information stored on the
Web, people are only as safe as their passwords.

During the assault, which security analysts said began about 1 a.m. and lasted
roughly an hour, hackers tinkered with Twitter's domain name servers, which are
hosted by a Manchester, N.H., company called Dyn. When Web surfers tried to
reach Twitter's pages, they were sent instead to a site for the ''Iranian Cyber
Army,'' which claimed responsibility  for the attack.

The domain names were eventually fixed and redirected back to the correct
servers at about 2 a.m., but because of  time the reset took, Twitter's Web site
was not fully functional again until an hour later, according to Rod Rasmussen,
president of Internet Identity, an Internet security company, who watched the
attacks unfold in real time through a new technology his company is  building.

Twitter, which is based in San Francisco, declined to discuss details of the
attack, and it was not clear  how its  security was compromised.

But Dan Kaminsky, director of penetration testing with the security firm
IOActive, said that ''in terms of this sort'' of domain name server attack,
''this is easily one of the most common hacks.'' He said that a recent report by
Verizon Communications found that 61 percent of Internet security breaches
happen through simple password failures.

Security specialists say it will be extremely difficult to determine who was
behind the attack. There was some indication  that the attack came from within
the United States, but authorities are still investigating.

Beth Jones, a senior threat researcher at the Internet security firm Sophos,
said the attack did not look very sophisticated and probably was not the effort
of a Web terrorist or other professional. ''It could have been any number of
people doing it,'' she said.

Ms. Jones said the incident may have been ''hacktivism,'' an attack with  a
social or political motivation. ''The point could purely be just to prove the
site is insecure,'' she said.

Although the attack did not appear malicious, it easily could have been, Ms.
Jones said.

''Instead of throwing up a banner to cover the site, what if it had been an
exact replica of the home page?'' she said. ''If this attack had been a phishing
page instead, who knows how many millions of credentials they could have
gotten?''

The attack was another black eye for Twitter, which had two major security
breaches this summer.

In July, the technology blog TechCrunch published internal Twitter documents
that had been stolen by an unidentified hacker who apparently figured out an
employee's e-mail password.

In August, unidentified attackers bombarded several social networking sites,
including Facebook, YouTube and Twitter, with millions of junk e-mail messages
in an attempt to block the Web pages of a 34-year-old economics professor who
was writing about a skirmish between Russia and the republic of Georgia. The
other sites withstood the assault, one of the most common types of Internet
attacks, but Twitter struggled with its service for days.

Roel Schouwenberg, a senior antivirus researcher at Kaspersky Lab, an Internet
security company in Woburn, Mass., said the latest incident was an embarrassment
to Twitter. ''Even if it was the fault of the hosting company, Twitter has a
track record this year of having weak passwords and being compromised,'' he
said.

In September, Twitter raised  $100 million from investors, adding  $55 million
it had raised.  Despite all that new money, ''Twitter still doesn't seem to
invest all that much in security,'' Mr. Schouwenberg said.

In a blog post Friday afternoon, Biz Stone, a co-founder of Twitter, confirmed
that the hijacking occurred. ''The motive for this attack appears to have been
focused on defacing our site, not aimed at users,'' he said. ''We don't believe
any accounts were compromised.''

Mr. Stone and other company officials declined requests for interviews.

Twitter's vulnerability appears to have increased as it has grown in popularity.
''As soon as you become high profile, you are a much more interesting target to
people,''  Mr. Schouwenberg said.

In November Twitter.com had more than 19 million unique visitors, an increase of
500 percent from Novemer 2008, according to Nielsen Mobile.

The company's  failures have not had a major impact on users, even businesses
who are using it to communicate with customers or conduct transactions. From its
very beginning, Twitter has experienced short failures, although they have
become less frequent over the last year.

Tony Hsieh, chief executive of the shoe retailer Zappos.com and an avid user of
Twitter on company matters, said Friday's breach  ''didn't concern me. I didn't
even know about it.''

Richard Binhammer an executive at  Dell, which has generated $6.5 million in
sales through Twitter, said that Twitter conversations tend to be sporadic
anyway.

''It's not like you're on it all the time, depending on it for everything,''
said Mr. Binhammer, who is active on the computer maker's Twitter accounts.
''So when all of a sudden they have an outage, I'll pick up later, just like
everybody else.''

Other companies said that they were watching Twitter's performance closely to
make sure they could depend on it to meet their customer service needs.

Andy Dunn, chief executive of Bonobos, an e-commerce company, said he hoped to
someday use Twitter as his primary way of communication with customers and
others, replacing e-mail.

But the service would need to be more reliable to do so. ''We're not there
yet,'' he said.

Laura Fitton, founder and chief executive of Oneforty, a start-up that
aggregates listings of third-party Twitter services, is willing to be patient.
''Twitter's been around for three years and been dealt some pretty heavy
blows,'' she said. ''And they're still standing. Each time, they still come out
on top.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A message on Twitter from the ''Iranian Cyber Army,'' which took
responsibility for the attack. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TWITTER.COM, VIA AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               68 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 19, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iran: Opposition Web Site Disrupted

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING MIDDLE EAST; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 94 words


Computer hackers disrupted an opposition Web site and Twitter late Thursday and
Friday, identifying themselves as the Iranian Cyber Army and posting
anti-American messages in English. Traffic on Twitter was blocked for more than
an hour, according to a message posted by the site. The opposition Web site
www.mowjcamp.com, which is run by supporters of candidates who ran against
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in the June election, was also disrupted. Iran's
opposition movement has depended heavily on Web sites and Twitter to communicate
with the outside world.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               69 of 69 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 22, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Behind a Search Ad, a Struggle With Strategy

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1187 words

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.


Cyber Monday had gone swimmingly for Tiny Prints.

Despite the economic downturn, customers streamed into the Tiny Prints online
store on the Monday after Thanksgiving, called Cyber Monday because it is one of
the busiest days of the year for Web retailers. They  snapped up the company's
custom holiday cards at roughly twice the rate of a year ago.

But in the following days, Ed Han, the chief executive, and his team made a
risky bet in search of higher profits. Hoping that traffic and sales would stay
up, they pulled back on the Google search ads that had helped drive visitors to
Tiny Prints.

The gamble backfired. Just as Tiny Prints pulled back, competitors appeared to
spend more aggressively to display their ads when people typed ''holiday cards''
or ''photo cards'' into Google. By the middle of the week, sales growth began to
taper off and a bright holiday season suddenly appeared a bit less rosy.

''We knew we had made a bad decision,'' Mr. Han said. Tiny Prints reversed
course, but it took the company, which is privately held, more than a day to
recover -- a critical amount of time during the heavy shopping season.

For most people, Google and other search engines are essential tools to navigate
the Web. But the workings of the text ads, the blurbs that peddle goods and
services on the search results pages, are largely hidden from Web users.

For  more than one million businesses, Google's search advertising system is
like a hose inundating  Web sites with traffic.  Managing it effectively,
though, is as much art as it is science. It requires a mix of analytics and
gamesmanship, a combination of skills that has become vitally important in the
Internet age.

''It is critical,'' said Ellen Siminoff, the chairwoman of Efficient Frontier,
which helps companies manage their search advertising campaigns. ''You have to
have data and be able to analyze it. It's a bit like playing chess, but you are
blind to what your competitors will do.''

Many industry insiders say search engine marketing, as the practice is known, is
one of the most effective forms of advertising ever devised. In just a decade,
it has grown into an $11 billion business in the United States. It accounts for
the vast majority of Google's $22 billion in annual global sales.

Google's service, called AdWords,  dominates so thoroughly that some advertisers
have felt at the mercy of the company, and complained that they had little
control over the complex advertising system. One company, TradeComet, filed an
antitrust lawsuit accusing Google of artificially increasing its advertising
rates.

But by and large, businesses find search advertising effective and continue to
flock to it, albeit at a slower rate than in previous years. As growth has
tapered off over the last year, Google has stepped up its outreach efforts to
help midsize companies like Tiny Prints use its tools more effectively, hoping
that will encourage those companies to spend more.

''It's good for our business and it's good for their business,'' said Claire
Johnson, vice president for online sales and operations at Google.

Like many other businesses, Tiny Prints also buys search ads on Yahoo and
Microsoft's search engine, Bing. While results are ''very attractive,'' the
traffic coming from those sites is small compared to referrals from Google, Mr.
Han said. As a result, Tiny Prints spends nearly 90 percent of its search
marketing budget on Google, he said.

Mr. Han said that Tiny Prints, which specializes in high-end custom-designed
greeting cards, had been working at perfecting its search advertising for the
last two years. Its three-person team, veterans of Walmart.com and eBay, has
become expert at poring over spreadsheets and sifting through the data about
visitors and shoppers on the company's Web site. During the holiday season, they
monitor ads and traffic patterns hourly, and meet daily with Mr. Han and other
executives to adjust budgets and strategies.

During one of the company's daily budget meetings in mid-November, Anna Fieler,
the vice president for marketing, said, ''We are on a trajectory to overspend on
search.'' She then added,  ''But we are delivering on revenue.''

Search ads are bought from Google through an auction, and businesses pay Google
only when someone clicks on their ad. An ad's position on Google's search
results pages depends on Google's secret formula derived from bid prices, the
rate at which users previously clicked on the ad and a ''quality score''
determined by Google.

Since not all clicks turn into purchases, the trick for advertisers is to make
sure that the amount they bid, multiplied by the average number of clicks needed
to make a sale -- the cost of acquiring a customer -- does not exceed the profit
derived from that sale.

But that can be easier said than done.

Early in the holiday season,  for example, most people are window-shopping, so
few clicks turn into sales. Tiny Prints is forced to pay more than $50 to
acquire each customer, leaving little room for profits on an average order.
Relying on spreadsheets of buying patterns from previous years, Tiny Prints
search marketers make the case to Mr. Han that their cost of acquiring a
customer is on track.

''We are seeing day by day that it is starting to dip,'' said Isabelle Steiner,
the director for search marketing said at the meeting in mid-November. ''I'm
projecting that by end of month, we'll be spending $35.''

Based on those assurances, Mr. Han then gave the team the green light to
increase spending on search ads. But Mr. Han brought up another point:
competitors could disrupt the plans if they suddenly started bidding
aggressively on the same keywords as Tiny Prints.

''What if Hallmark comes in on Saturday?'' Mr. Han asked, referring to the
Thanksgiving weekend. ''Do we have a plan to react to what competitors might
do?''

The plan, Ms. Steiner said, was to monitor the site around the clock.

A couple of weeks later, the vigilance paid off.

In a spot check squeezed between a birthday party and her own Christmas
shopping, Ms. Fieler was welcomed by a screen of red alerts indicating that the
Tiny Prints ads had fallen off the first page of Google search results for
important keywords.

''We were then forced to make and implement a new plan to react to the
competitive environment real-time,'' Ms. Fieler said. ''It was very tricky
trying to balance not overpaying by participating in the frenzy with getting the
impressions and clicks we needed to drive the business.''

By mid-December, with the bulk of the holiday shopping season behind them, Mr.
Han and his team were looking haggard. In addition to late-night discussions of
bidding strategies over instant messaging, they had pitched in to help wrap and
ship orders.

Mr. Han would not disclose the company's sales. But he said that by and large,
the ad campaign on Google, which drove more than 20 percent of revenue, had been
a success.

''Of the eight most important days of the year, we got seven exactly right,''
Mr. Han said. ''On one of the days, by our standards, we fell on our face.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ed Han, the chief executive of Tiny Prints, with Anna Fieler,
the vice president for marketing. The greeting card company has a team that
analyzes and adjusts its search ads on Google.(B1) A designer at Tiny Prints
last week. Gamesmanship and data analysis are critical to successful search
advertising. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company
